<text>
Keep her out, Lizzie. Tide runs strong here. Keep her well afore the sweep of it
What ails you
I see nothing afloat
for luck
Lizzie
Take that thing off your face
Here! and give me hold of the sculls. I'll take the rest of the spell
No, no, father! No! I can't indeed. Father!-- I cannot sit so near it
What hurt can it do you
None, none. But I cannot bear it
It's my belief you hate the sight of the very river
I -- I do not like it, father
As if it wasn't your living! As if it wasn't meat and drink to you
How can you be so thankless to your best friend, Lizzie? The very fire that warmed you when you were a babby, was picked out of the river alongside the coal barges. The very basket that you slept in, the tide washed ashore. The very rockers that I put it upon to make a cradle of it, I cut out of a piece of wood that drifted from some ship or another
In luck again, Gaffer
I know'd you was in luck again, by your wake as you come down
Ah
So you're out, are you
Yes, pardner
I says to myself
directly you hove in view, yonder's Gaffer, and in luck again, by George if he ain't! Scull it is, pardner -- don't fret yourself -- I didn't touch him
He's had touches enough not to want no more, as well as I make him out, Gaffer! Been a knocking about with a pretty many tides, ain't he pardner? Such is my out-of-luck ways, you see! He must have passed me when he went up last time, for I was on the lookout below bridge here. I a'most think you're like the wulturs, pardner, and scent 'em out
Easy does it, betwixt us. Shall I take him aboard, pardner
No
Arn't been eating nothing as has disagreed with you, have you, pardner
Why, yes, I have
I have been swallowing too much of that word, Pardner. I am no pardner of yours
Since when was you no pardner of mine, Gaffer Hexam Esquire
Since you was accused of robbing a man. Accused of robbing a live man
And what if I had been accused of robbing a dead man, Gaffer
You COULDN'T do it
Couldn't you, Gaffer
No. Has a dead man any use for money? Is it possible for a dead man to have money? What world does a dead man belong to? 'Tother world. What world does money belong to? This world. How can money be a corpse's? Can a corpse own it, want it, spend it, claim it, miss it? Don't try to go confounding the rights and wrongs of things in that way. But it's worthy of the sneaking spirit that robs a live man
I'll tell you what it is
No you won't. I'll tell you what it is. You got off with a short time of it for putting you're hand in the pocket of a sailor, a live sailor. Make the most of it and think yourself lucky, but don't think after that to come over ME with your pardners. We have worked together in time past, but we work together no more in time present nor yet future. Let go. Cast off
Gaffer! If you think to get rid of me this way
If I don't get rid of you this way, I'll try another, and chop you over the fingers with the stretcher, or take a pick at your head with the boat-hook. Cast off! Pull you, Lizzie. Pull home, since you won't let your father pull
I must not think of this. This is enough to soften any man's brain
Here is another wretched creature come to dinner; such is life
Mis-ter Twemlow
Ah! You will know the friend of your family better, Tootleums
when you begin to take notice
Mis-ter and Mis-sus Podsnap
My dear
the Podsnaps
How do you do? So glad to know you. Charming house you have here. I hope we are not late. So glad of the opportunity, I am sure
Let me
have the pleasure of presenting Mrs Podsnap to her host. She will be
she will be so glad of the opportunity, I am sure
Thank you. I am ashamed to say that I cannot at this moment recall where we met, but I am so glad of this opportunity, I am sure
Ridiculous opportunity -- but so glad of it, I am sure
Dinner is on the table
Come down and be poisoned, ye unhappy children of men
Man faint. Had no lunch
At Snigsworthy Park
At Snigsworthy
Chablis, sir
I assure you, my dear Veneering
I assure you, my dear Veneering, that it is the oddest affair! Like the advertising people, I don't ask you to trust me, without offering a respectable reference. Mortimer there, is my reference, and knows all about it
What's the use
Now, Mortimer
I insist upon your telling all that is to be told about the man from Jamaica
Give you my honour I never heard of any man from Jamaica, except the man who was a brother
Tobago, then
Nor yet from Tobago
Except
except our friend who long lived on rice- pudding and isinglass, till at length to his something or other, his physician said something else, and a leg of mutton somehow ended in daygo
Now, my dear Mrs Veneering
I banish the false wretch from this moment, and I strike him out of my Cupidon (my name for my Ledger, my dear,) this very night. But I am resolved to have the account of the man from Somewhere, and I beg you to elicit it for me, my love
as I have lost my own influence. Oh, you perjured man
We are all very much interested in the man from Somewhere
Deeply interested
Quite excited
Dramatic
Man from Nowhere, perhaps
Tease! Pay! Man from Tumwhere
You can't resist
Upon my life
I find it immensely embarrassing to have the eyes of Europe upon me to this extent, and my only consolation is that you will all of you execrate Lady Tippins in your secret hearts when you find, as you inevitably will, the man from Somewhere a bore. Sorry to destroy romance by fixing him with a local habitation, but he comes from the place, the name of which escapes me, but will suggest itself to everybody else here, where they make the wine
Day and Martin's
No, not that place
that's where they make the Port. My man comes from the country where they make the Cape Wine. But look here, old fellow; its not at all statistical and it's rather odd
The man
whose name is Harmon, was only son of a tremendous old rascal who made his money by Dust
Red velveteens and a bell
And a ladder and basket if you like. By which means, or by others, he grew rich as a Dust Contractor, and lived in a hollow in a hilly country entirely composed of Dust. On his own small estate the growling old vagabond threw up his own mountain range, like an old volcano, and its geological formation was Dust. Coal-dust, vegetable-dust, bone-dust, crockery dust, rough dust and sifted dust,-- all manner of Dust
The moral being -- I believe that's the right expression -- of this exemplary person, derived its highest gratification from anathematizing his nearest relations and turning them out of doors. Having begun (as was natural) by rendering these attentions to the wife of his bosom, he next found himself at leisure to bestow a similar recognition on the claims of his daughter. He chose a husband for her, entirely to his own satisfaction and not in the least to hers, and proceeded to settle upon her, as her marriage portion, I don't know how much Dust, but something immense. At this stage of the affair the poor girl respectfully intimated that she was secretly engaged to that popular character whom the novelists and versifiers call Another, and that such a marriage would make Dust of her heart and Dust of her life -- in short, would set her up, on a very extensive scale, in her father's business. Immediately, the venerable parent -- on a cold winter's night, it is said -- anathematized and turned her out
Pray go on
The pecuniary resources of Another were, as they usually are, of a very limited nature. I believe I am not using too strong an expression when I say that Another was hard up. However, he married the young lady, and they lived in a humble dwelling, probably possessing a porch ornamented with honeysuckle and woodbine twining, until she died. I must refer you to the Registrar of the District in which the humble dwelling was situated, for the certified cause of death; but early sorrow and anxiety may have had to do with it, though they may not appear in the ruled pages and printed forms. Indisputably this was the case with Another, for he was so cut up by the loss of his young wife that if he outlived her a year it was as much as he did
We must now return, as novelists say, and as we all wish they wouldn't, to the man from Somewhere. Being a boy of fourteen, cheaply educated at Brussels when his sister's expulsion befell, it was some little time before he heard of it -- probably from herself, for the mother was dead; but that I don't know. Instantly, he absconded, and came over here. He must have been a boy of spirit and resource, to get here on a stopped allowance of five sous a week; but he did it somehow, and he burst in on his father, and pleaded his sister's cause. Venerable parent promptly resorts to anathematization, and turns him out. Shocked and terrified boy takes flight, seeks his fortune, gets aboard ship, ultimately turns up on dry land among the Cape wine: small proprietor, farmer, grower -- whatever you like to call it
So he was discovered, only the other day, after having been expatriated about fourteen years
How discovered, and why
Ah! To be sure. Thank you for reminding me. Venerable parent dies
When
The other day. Ten or twelve months ago
What of
Venerable parent
dies
His will is found
It is dated very soon after the son's flight. It leaves the lowest of the range of dust-mountains, with some sort of a dwelling-house at its foot, to an old servant who is sole executor, and all the rest of the property -- which is very considerable -- to the son. He directs himself to be buried with certain eccentric ceremonies and precautions against his coming to life, with which I need not bore you, and that's all -- except
Except that the son's inheriting is made conditional on his marrying a girl, who at the date of the will, was a child of four or five years old, and who is now a marriageable young woman. Advertisement and inquiry discovered the son in the man from Somewhere, and at the present moment, he is on his way home from there -- no doubt, in a state of great astonishment -- to succeed to a very large fortune, and to take a wife
Falser man than Don Juan; why don't you take the note from the commendatore
What's this
WHO
This arrives in an extraordinarily opportune manner
this is the conclusion of the story of the identical man
Already married
Declines to marry
Codicil among the dust
Why, no
remarkable thing, you are all wrong. The story is completer and rather more exciting than I supposed. Man's drowned
Whose writing is this
Mine, sir
Who told you to write it
My father, Jesse Hexam
Is it he who found the body
Yes, sir
What is your father
He gets his living along-shore
Is it far
Is which far
To your father's
It's a goodish stretch, sir. I come up in a cab, and the cab's waiting to be paid. We could go back in it before you paid it, if you liked. I went first to your office, according to the direction of the papers found in the pockets, and there I see nobody but a chap of about my age who sent me on here
Were any means taken, do you know, boy, to ascertain if it was possible to restore life
You wouldn't ask, sir, if you knew his state. Pharaoh's multitude that were drowned in the Red Sea, ain't more beyond restoring to life. If Lazarus was only half as far gone, that was the greatest of all the miracles
Halloa
you seem to be at home in the Red Sea, my young friend
Read of it with teacher at the school
And Lazarus
Yes, and him too. But don't you tell my father! We should have no peace in our place, if that got touched upon. It's my sister's contriving
You seem to have a good sister
She ain't half bad
but if she knows her letters it's the most she does -- and them I learned her
Well, I'm sure, sir
I hope you'll know me again
I'll go with you, if you like
Let me see
I have been, Eugene, upon the honourable roll of solicitors of the High Court of Chancery, and attorneys at Common Law, five years; and -- except gratuitously taking instructions, on an average once a fortnight, for the will of Lady Tippins who has nothing to leave -- I have had no scrap of business but this romantic business
And I
have been "called" seven years, and have had no business at all, and never shall have any. And if I had, I shouldn't know how to do it
I am far from being clear as to the last particular
that I have much advantage over you
I hate
I hate my profession
Shall I incommode you, if I put mine up too
Thank you. I hate mine
It was forced upon me
because it was understood that we wanted a barrister in the family. We have got a precious one
It was forced upon me
because it was understood that we wanted a solicitor in the family. And we have got a precious one
There are four of us, with our names painted on a door-post in right of one black hole called a set of chambers
and each of us has the fourth of a clerk -- Cassim Baba, in the robber's cave -- and Cassim is the only respectable member of the party
I am one by myself, one
high up an awful staircase commanding a burial-ground, and I have a whole clerk to myself, and he has nothing to do but look at the burial-ground, and what he will turn out when arrived at maturity, I cannot conceive. Whether, in that shabby rook's nest, he is always plotting wisdom, or plotting murder; whether he will grow up, after so much solitary brooding, to enlighten his fellow-creatures, or to poison them; is the only speck of interest that presents itself to my professional view. Will you give me a light? Thank you
Then idiots talk
of Energy. If there is a word in the dictionary under any letter from A to Z that I abominate, it is energy. It is such a conventional superstition, such parrot gabble! What the deuce! Am I to rush out into the street, collar the first man of a wealthy appearance that I meet, shake him, and say, "Go to law upon the spot, you dog, and retain me, or I'll be the death of you"? Yet that would be energy
Precisely my view of the case, Eugene. But show me a good opportunity, show me something really worth being energetic about, and I'll show you energy
And so will I
You must walk the rest, sir; it's not many yards
This is a confoundedly out-of-the-way place
Here's my father's, sir; where the light is
The gentleman, father
You're Mortimer Lightwood Esquire; are you, sir
Mortimer Lightwood is my name. What you found
is it here
Tain't not to say here, but it's close by. I do everything reg'lar. I've giv' notice of the circumstarnce to the police, and the police have took possession of it. No time ain't been lost, on any hand. The police have put into print already, and here's what the print says of it
Only papers on the unfortunate man, I see
Only papers
No money
but threepence in one of the skirt- pockets
Three. Penny. Pieces
The trousers pockets empty, and turned inside out
But that's common. Whether it's the wash of the tide or no, I can't say. Now, here
HIS pockets was found empty, and turned inside out. And here
HER pocket was found empty, and turned inside out. And so was this one's. And so was that one's. I can't read, nor I don't want to it, for I know 'em by their places on the wall. This one was a sailor, with two anchors and a flag and G. F. T. on his arm. Look and see if he warn't
Quite right
This one was the young woman in grey boots, and her linen marked with a cross. Look and see if she warn't
Quite right
This is him as had a nasty cut over the eye. This is them two young sisters what tied themselves together with a handkecher. This the drunken old chap, in a pair of list slippers and a nightcap, wot had offered -- it afterwards come out -- to make a hole in the water for a quartern of rum stood aforehand, and kept to his word for the first and last time in his life. They pretty well papers the room, you see; but I know 'em all. I'm scholar enough
You did not find all these yourself; did you
And what might YOUR name be, now
This is my friend
Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Mr Eugene Wrayburn, is it? And what might Mr Eugene Wrayburn have asked of me
I asked you, simply, if you found all these yourself
I answer you, simply, most on 'em
Do you suppose there has been much violence and robbery, beforehand, among these cases
I don't suppose at all about it
I ain't one of the supposing sort. If you'd got your living to haul out of the river every day of your life, you mightn't be much given to supposing. Am I to show the way
A body missing
or a body found? Which
I am lost
Lost
I -- I -- am a stranger, and don't know the way. I -- I -- want to find the place where I can see what is described here. It is possible I may know it
This gentleman, Mr Lightwood, is on that business
Mr Lightwood
I think, sir
that you did me the honour to mention my name
I repeated it, after this man
You said you were a stranger in London
An utter stranger
Are you seeking a Mr Harmon
No
Then I believe I can assure you that you are on a fruitless errand, and will not find what you fear to find. Will you come with us
Ah! we know all about YOU, and you'll overdo it some day
A bull's-eye
Now, gentlemen
Not MUCH worse than Lady Tippins
It appears to have knocked your friend over -- knocked him completely off his legs
It has given him a bad turn to be sure
Indeed
where did you pick him up
Turned you faint, sir! Seems you're not accustomed to this kind of work
No. It's a horrible sight
You expected to identify, I am told, sir
Yes
HAVE you identified
No. It's a horrible sight. O! a horrible, horrible sight
Who did you think it might have been
Give us a description, sir. Perhaps we can help you
No, no
it would be quite useless. Good-night
You missed a friend, you know; or you missed a foe, you know; or you wouldn't have come here, you know. Well, then; ain't it reasonable to ask, who was it
You must excuse my telling you. No class of man can understand better than you, that families may not choose to publish their disagreements and misfortunes, except on the last necessity. I do not dispute that you discharge your duty in asking me the question; you will not dispute my right to withhold the answer. Good-night
At least
you will not object to leave me your card, sir
I should not object, if I had one; but I have not
At least
you will not object to write down your name and address
Not at all
Mr Julius Handford, Exchequer Coffee House, Palace Yard, Westminster
Staying there, I presume, sir
Staying there
Consequently, from the country
Eh? Yes -- from the country
Good-night, sir
Reserve
Take care of this piece of paper, keep him in view without giving offence, ascertain that he IS staying there, and find out anything you can about him
but you got nothing out of bodies if it was ever so
for a half-a-pint
Where did you go, Liz
I went out in the dark
There was no necessity for that. It was all right enough
One of the gentlemen, the one who didn't speak while I was there, looked hard at me. And I was afraid he might know what my face meant. But there! Don't mind me, Charley! I was all in a tremble of another sort when you owned to father you could write a little
Ah! But I made believe I wrote so badly, as that it was odds if any one could read it. And when I wrote slowest and smeared but with my finger most, father was best pleased, as he stood looking over me
You'll make the most of your time, Charley; won't you
Won't I? Come! I like that. Don't I
Yes, Charley, yes. You work hard at your learning, I know. And I work a little, Charley, and plan and contrive a little (wake out of my sleep contriving sometimes), how to get together a shilling now, and a shilling then, that shall make father believe you are beginning to earn a stray living along shore
You are father's favourite, and can make him believe anything
I wish I could, Charley! For if I could make him believe that learning was a good thing, and that we might lead better lives, I should be a'most content to die
Don't talk stuff about dying, Liz
Of an evening, Charley, when you are at the school, and father's
At the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters
Yes. Then as I sit a-looking at the fire, I seem to see in the burning coal -- like where that glow is now
That's gas, that is
coming out of a bit of a forest that's been under the mud that was under the water in the days of Noah's Ark. Look here! When I take the poker -- so -- and give it a dig
Don't disturb it, Charley, or it'll be all in a blaze. It's that dull glow near it, coming and going, that I mean. When I look at it of an evening, it comes like pictures to me, Charley
Show us a picture
Tell us where to look
Ah! It wants my eyes, Charley
Cut away then, and tell us what your eyes make of it
Why, there are you and me, Charley, when you were quite a baby that never knew a mother
Don't go saying I never knew a mother
for I knew a little sister that was sister and mother both
There are you and me, Charley, when father was away at work and locked us out, for fear we should set ourselves afire or fall out of window, sitting on the door-sill, sitting on other door-steps, sitting on the bank of the river, wandering about to get through the time. You are rather heavy to carry, Charley, and I am often obliged to rest. Sometimes we are sleepy and fall asleep together in a corner, sometimes we are very hungry, sometimes we are a little frightened, but what is oftenest hard upon us is the cold. You remember, Charley
I remember
that I snuggled under a little shawl, and it was warm there
Sometimes it rains, and we creep under a boat or the like of that: sometimes it's dark, and we get among the gaslights, sitting watching the people as they go along the streets. At last, up comes father and takes us home. And home seems such a shelter after out of doors! And father pulls my shoes off, and dries my feet at the fire, and has me to sit by him while he smokes his pipe long after you are abed, and I notice that father's is a large hand but never a heavy one when it touches me, and that father's is a rough voice but never an angry one when it speaks to me. So, I grow up, and little by little father trusts me, and makes me his companion, and, let him be put out as he may, never once strikes me
But he strikes ME though
Those are some of the pictures of what is past, Charley
Cut away again
and give us a fortune-telling one; a future one
Well! There am I, continuing with father and holding to father, because father loves me and I love father. I can't so much as read a book, because, if I had learned, father would have thought I was deserting him, and I should have lost my influence. I have not the influence I want to have, I cannot stop some dreadful things I try to stop, but I go on in the hope and trust that the time will come. In the meanwhile I know that I am in some things a stay to father, and that if I was not faithful to him he would -- in revenge-like, or in disappointment, or both -- go wild and bad
Give us a touch of the fortune-telling pictures about me
I was passing on to them, Charley
the others were all leading up. There are you
Where am I, Liz
Still in the hollow down by the flare
There seems to be the deuce-and-all in the hollow down by the flare
There are you, Charley, working your way, in secret from father, at the school; and you get prizes; and you go on better and better; and you come to be a -- what was it you called it when you told me about that
Ha, ha! Fortune-telling not know the name
Pupil-teacher
You come to be a pupil-teacher, and you still go on better and better, and you rise to be a master full of learning and respect. But the secret has come to father's knowledge long before, and it has divided you from father, and from me
No it hasn't
Yes it has, Charley. I see, as plain as plain can be, that your way is not ours, and that even if father could be got to forgive your taking it (which he never could be), that way of yours would be darkened by our way. But I see too, Charley
Still as plain as plain can be, Liz
Ah! Still. That it is a great work to have cut you away from father's life, and to have made a new and good beginning. So there am I, Charley, left alone with father, keeping him as straight as I can, watching for more influence than I have, and hoping that through some fortunate chance, or when he is ill, or when -- I don't know what -- I may turn him to wish to do better things
You said you couldn't read a book, Lizzie. Your library of books is the hollow down by the flare, I think
I should be very glad to be able to read real books. I feel my want of learning very much, Charley. But I should feel it much more, if I didn't know it to be a tie between me and father.-- Hark! Father's tread
Rumty iddity, row dow dow, Sing toodlely, teedlely, bow wow wow
Yours truly, R. Wilfer
Ah me
what might have been is not what is
Hal-loa
Yes
the man came himself with a pair of pincers, and took it off, and took it away. He said that as he had no expectation of ever being paid for it, and as he had an order for another LADIES' SCHOOL door-plate, it was better (burnished up) for the interests of all parties
Perhaps it was, my dear; what do you think
You are master here, R. W
It is as you think; not as I do. Perhaps it might have been better if the man had taken the door too
My dear, we couldn't have done without the door
Couldn't we
Why, my dear! Could we
It is as you think, R. W.; not as I do
out in the world
Oh! here's another of 'em
How de do, John
Well Piggywiggies
how de do to-night? What I was thinking of, my dear
was, that as we have let our first floor so well, and as we have now no place in which you could teach pupils even if pupils
The milkman said he knew of two young ladies of the highest respectability who were in search of a suitable establishment, and he took a card
Tell your father whether it was last Monday, Bella
But we never heard any more of it, ma
In addition to which, my dear
if you have no place to put two young persons into
Pardon me
they were not young persons. Two young ladies of the highest respectability. Tell your father, Bella, whether the milkman said so
My dear, it is the same thing
No it is not
Pardon me
I mean, my dear, it is the same thing as to space. As to space. If you have no space in which to put two youthful fellow-creatures, however eminently respectable, which I do not doubt, where are those youthful fellow-creatures to be accommodated? I carry it no further than that. And solely looking at it
as I am sure you will agree, my love -- from a fellow-creature point of view, my dear
I have nothing more to say
It is as you think, R. W.; not as I do
Poor Bella
And poor Lavinia, perhaps, my dear
Pardon me
no
No, R. W. Lavinia has not known the trial that Bella has known. The trial that your daughter Bella has undergone, is, perhaps, without a parallel, and has been borne, I will say, Nobly. When you see your daughter Bella in her black dress, which she alone of all the family wears, and when you remember the circumstances which have led to her wearing it, and when you know how those circumstances have been sustained, then, R. W., lay your head upon your pillow and say, "Poor Lavinia
I am sure you do not, my dear
for you have a fine brave spirit. And your sister Cecilia has a fine brave spirit of another kind, a spirit of pure devotion, a beau-ti-ful spirit! The self-sacrifice of Cecilia reveals a pure and womanly character, very seldom equalled, never surpassed. I have now in my pocket a letter from your sister Cecilia, received this morning -- received three months after her marriage, poor child!-- in which she tells me that her husband must unexpectedly shelter under their roof his reduced aunt. "But I will be true to him, mamma," she touchingly writes, "I will not leave him, I must not forget that he is my husband. Let his aunt come!" If this is not pathetic, if this is not woman's devotion
I am sure
though you have no feeling for me, pa, I am one of the most unfortunate girls that ever lived. You know how poor we are' (it is probable he did, having some reason to know it!), 'and what a glimpse of wealth I had, and how it melted away, and how I am here in this ridiculous mourning -- which I hate!-- a kind of a widow who never was married. And yet you don't feel for me.-- Yes you do, yes you do
But you ought to feel for me, you know, pa
My dear, I do
Yes, and I say you ought to. If they had only left me alone and told me nothing about it, it would have mattered much less. But that nasty Mr Lightwood feels it his duty, as he says, to write and tell me what is in reserve for me, and then I am obliged to get rid of George Sampson
You never cared for George Sampson, Bella
And did I say I did, miss
George Sampson was very fond of me, and admired me very much, and put up with everything I did to him
You were rude enough to him
And did I say I wasn't, miss? I am not setting up to be sentimental about George Sampson. I only say George Sampson was better than nothing
You didn't show him that you thought even that
You are a chit and a little idiot
or you wouldn't make such a dolly speech. What did you expect me to do? Wait till you are a woman, and don't talk about what you don't understand. You only show your ignorance
It's a shame! There never was such a hard case! I shouldn't care so much if it wasn't so ridiculous. It was ridiculous enough to have a stranger coming over to marry me, whether he liked it or not. It was ridiculous enough to know what an embarrassing meeting it would be, and how we never could pretend to have an inclination of our own, either of us. It was ridiculous enough to know I shouldn't like him -- how COULD I like him, left to him in a will, like a dozen of spoons, with everything cut and dried beforehand, like orange chips. Talk of orange flowers indeed! I declare again it's a shame! Those ridiculous points would have been smoothed away by the money, for I love money, and want money -- want it dreadfully. I hate to be poor, and we are degradingly poor, offensively poor, miserably poor, beastly poor. But here I am, left with all the ridiculous parts of the situation remaining, and, added to them all, this ridiculous dress! And if the truth was known, when the Harmon murder was all over the town, and people were speculating on its being suicide, I dare say those impudent wretches at the clubs and places made jokes about the miserable creature's having preferred a watery grave to me. It's likely enough they took such liberties; I shouldn't wonder! I declare it's a very hard case indeed, and I am a most unfortunate girl. The idea of being a kind of a widow, and never having been married! And the idea of being as poor as ever after all, and going into black, besides, for a man I never saw, and should have hated -- as far as HE was concerned -- if I had seen
Who is it
Enter
The servant girl had her key in the door as I came up, and directed me to this room, telling me I was expected. I am afraid I should have asked her to announce me
Pardon me
Not at all. Two of my daughters. R. W., this is the gentleman who has taken your first- floor. He was so good as to make an appointment for to-night, when you would be at home
Seeing that I am quite satisfied, Mr Wilfer, with the rooms, and with their situation, and with their price, I suppose a memorandum between us of two or three lines, and a payment down, will bind the bargain? I wish to send in furniture without delay
The gentleman, R. W
proposes to take your apartments by the quarter. A quarter's notice on either side
Shall I mention, sir
the form of a reference
I think
that a reference is not necessary; neither, to say the truth, is it convenient, for I am a stranger in London. I require no reference from you, and perhaps, therefore, you will require none from me. That will be fair on both sides. Indeed, I show the greater confidence of the two, for I will pay in advance whatever you please, and I am going to trust my furniture here. Whereas, if you were in embarrassed circumstances -- this is merely supposititious
Per-fectly
Why then I -- might lose it
Well
money and goods are certainly the best of references
Do you think they ARE the best, pa
Among the best, my dear
I should have thought, myself, it was so easy to add the usual kind of one
Where am I to go, pa? Here, in this corner
Much obliged to you, Miss Wilfer
Obliged
I have given you so much trouble
Signing my name? Yes, certainly. But I am your landlord's daughter, sir
Pa
we have got a Murderer for a tenant
Pa
we have got a Robber
To see him unable for his life to look anybody in the face
There never was such an exhibition
My dears
he is a diffident gentleman, and I should say particularly so in the society of girls of your age
Nonsense, our age
What's that got to do with him
Besides, we are not of the same age:-- which age
Never YOU mind, Lavvy
you wait till you are of an age to ask such questions. Pa, mark my words! Between Mr Rokesmith and me, there is a natural antipathy and a deep distrust; and something will come of it
My dear, and girls
between Mr Rokesmith and me, there is a matter of eight sovereigns, and something for supper shall come of it, if you'll agree upon the article
Very brown, ma
Put the saltcellar straight, miss, and don't be a dowdy little puss
I hate our landlord
You deserve to have a house of your own; don't you, poor pa
I don't deserve it better than another, my dear
At any rate I, for one, want it more than another
and I grudge this money going to the Monster that swallows up so much, when we all want -- Everything. And if you say (as you want to say; I know you want to say so, pa) "that's neither reasonable nor honest, Bella," then I answer, "Maybe not, pa -- very likely -- but it's one of the consequences of being poor, and of thoroughly hating and detesting to be poor, and that's my case." Now, you look lovely, pa; why don't you always wear your hair like that? And here's the cutlet! If it isn't very brown, ma, I can't eat it, and must have a bit put back to be done expressly
Pa
when old Mr Harmon made such a fool of me (not to mention himself, as he is dead), what do you suppose he did it for
Impossible to say, my dear. As I have told you time out of number since his will was brought to light, I doubt if I ever exchanged a hundred words with the old gentleman. If it was his whim to surprise us, his whim succeeded. For he certainly did it
And I was stamping my foot and screaming, when he first took notice of me; was I
You were stamping your little foot, my dear, and screaming with your little voice, and laying into me with your little bonnet, which you had snatched off for the purpose
you were doing this one Sunday morning when I took you out, because I didn't go the exact way you wanted, when the old gentleman, sitting on a seat near, said, "That's a nice girl; that's a VERY nice girl; a promising girl!" And so you were, my dear
And then he asked my name, did he, pa
Then he asked your name, my dear, and mine; and on other Sunday mornings, when we walked his way, we saw him again, and -- and really that's all
And by this time to-morrow
we shall have Mr Rokesmith here, and shall be expecting to have our throats cut
You needn't stand between me and the candle for all that
This is another of the consequences of being poor! The idea of a girl with a really fine head of hair, having to do it by one flat candle and a few inches of looking-glass
You caught George Sampson with it, Bella, bad as your means of dressing it are
You low little thing. Caught George Sampson with it! Don't talk about catching people, miss, till your own time for catching -- as you call it -- comes
Perhaps it has come
What did you say
What did you say, miss
Our House
Uncle Parker
Oh! Here you are again
Here you are again
And what are you now? Are you in the Funns, or where are you? Have you lately come to settle in this neighbourhood, or do you own to another neighbourhood? Are you in independent circumstances, or is it wasting the motions of a bow on you? Come! I'll speculate! I'll invest a bow in you
Morning, sir! Morning! Morning
Calls me Sir
HE won't answer. A bow gone
Morning, morning, morning
Appears to be rather a 'arty old cock, too
Good morning to YOU, sir
Do you remember me, then
I have noticed you go past our house, sir, several times in the course of the last week or so
Our house
Meaning
Yes
Oh! Now, what
what do they allow you now
It's job work that I do for our house
it's not yet brought to an exact allowance
Oh! It's not yet brought to an exact allowance? No! It's not yet brought to an exact allowance. Oh!-- Morning, morning, morning
Appears to be rather a cracked old cock
How did you get your wooden leg
In an accident
Do you like it
Well! I haven't got to keep it warm
He hasn't
he hasn't got -- ha!-- ha!-- to keep it warm! Did you ever hear of the name of Boffin
No
I never did hear of the name of Boffin
Do you like it
Why, no
I can't say I do
Why don't you like it
I don't know why I don't
but I don't at all
Now, I'll tell you something that'll make you sorry for that
My name's Boffin
I can't help it
and if I could, I wouldn't
But there's another chance for you
Do you like the name of Nicodemus? Think it over. Nick, or Noddy
It is not, sir
Noddy Boffin
Noddy. That's my name. Noddy -- or Nick -- Boffin. What's your name
Silas Wegg.-- I don't
I don't know why Silas, and I don't know why Wegg
Now, Wegg
I want to make a sort of offer to you. Do you remember when you first see me
Let me think. I ain't quite sure, and yet I generally take a powerful sight of notice, too. Was it on a Monday morning, when the butcher-boy had been to our house for orders, and bought a ballad of me, which, being unacquainted with the tune, I run it over to him
Right, Wegg, right! But he bought more than one
Yes, to be sure, sir; he bought several; and wishing to lay out his money to the best, he took my opinion to guide his choice, and we went over the collection together. To be sure we did. Here was him as it might be, and here was myself as it might be, and there was you, Mr Boffin, as you identically are, with your self-same stick under your very same arm, and your very same back towards us. To -- be -- sure
your wery self-same back
What do you think I was doing, Wegg
I should judge, sir, that you might be glancing your eye down the street
No, Wegg. I was a listening
Was you, indeed
Not in a dishonourable way, Wegg, because you was singing to the butcher; and you wouldn't sing secrets to a butcher in the street, you know
It never happened that I did so yet, to the best of my remembrance
But I might do it. A man can't say what he might wish to do some day or another
Well
I was a listening to you and to him. And what do you -- you haven't got another stool, have you? I'm rather thick in my breath
I haven't got another, but you're welcome to this
It's a treat to me to stand
Lard
it's a pleasant place, this! And then to be shut in on each side, with these ballads, like so many book-leaf blinkers! Why, its delightful
If I am not mistaken, sir
you alluded to some offer or another that was in your mind
I'm coming to it! All right. I'm coming to it! I was going to say that when I listened that morning, I listened with hadmiration amounting to haw. I thought to myself, "Here's a man with a wooden leg -- a literary man with
N -- not exactly so, sir
Why, you know every one of these songs by name and by tune, and if you want to read or to sing any one on 'em off straight, you've only to whip on your spectacles and do it
I see you at it
Well, sir
we'll say literary, then
A literary man -- WITH a wooden leg -- and all Print is open to him!" That's what I thought to myself, that morning
all Print is open to him!" And it is, ain't it
Why, truly, sir
I believe you couldn't show me the piece of English print, that I wouldn't be equal to collaring and throwing
On the spot
On the spot
I know'd it! Then consider this. Here am I, a man without a wooden leg, and yet all print is shut to me
Indeed, sir
Education neglected
Neg -- lected
That ain't no word for it. I don't mean to say but what if you showed me a B, I could so far give you change for it, as to answer Boffin
Come, come, sir
that's something, too
It's something
but I'll take my oath it ain't much
Perhaps it's not as much as could be wished by an inquiring mind, sir
Now, look here. I'm retired from business. Me and Mrs Boffin -- Henerietty Boffin -- which her father's name was Henery, and her mother's name was Hetty, and so you get it -- we live on a compittance, under the will of a diseased governor
Gentleman dead, sir
Man alive, don't I tell you? A diseased governor? Now, it's too late for me to begin shovelling and sifting at alphabeds and grammar-books. I'm getting to be a old bird, and I want to take it easy. But I want some reading -- some fine bold reading, some splendid book in a gorging Lord-Mayor's-Show of wollumes' (probably meaning gorgeous, but misled by association of ideas); 'as'll reach right down your pint of view, and take time to go by you. How can I get that reading, Wegg? By
paying a man truly qualified to do it, so much an hour (say twopence) to come and do it
Hem! Flattered, sir, I am sure
Hew! This is the offer you mentioned, sir
Yes. Do you like it
I am considering of it, Mr Boffin
I don't
want to tie a literary man -- WITH a wooden leg -- down too tight. A halfpenny an hour shan't part us. The hours are your own to choose, after you've done for the day with your house here. I live over Maiden-Lane way -- out Holloway direction -- and you've only got to go East-and-by- North when you've finished here, and you're there. Twopence halfpenny an hour
Half a crown
Yes. (It ain't much, sir.) Half a crown
Per week, you know
Per week. Yes. As to the amount of strain upon the intellect now. Was you thinking at all of poetry
Would it come dearer
It would come dearer
For when a person comes to grind off poetry night after night, it is but right he should expect to be paid for its weakening effect on his mind
To tell you the truth Wegg
I wasn't thinking of poetry, except in so fur as this:-- If you was to happen now and then to feel yourself in the mind to tip me and Mrs Boffin one of your ballads, why then we should drop into poetry
I follow you, sir
But not being a regular musical professional, I should be loath to engage myself for that; and therefore when I dropped into poetry, I should ask to be considered so fur, in the light of a friend
What do you think of the terms, Wegg
Mr Boffin, I never bargain
So I should have thought of you
No, sir. I never did 'aggle and I never will 'aggle. Consequently I meet you at once, free and fair, with -- Done, for double the money
You know better what it ought to be than I do, Wegg
Could you begin to night, Wegg
Yes, sir
I see no difficulty if you wish it. You are provided with the needful implement -- a book, sir
Bought him at a sale
Eight wollumes. Red and gold. Purple ribbon in every wollume, to keep the place where you leave off. Do you know him
The book's name, sir
I thought you might have know'd him without it
His name is Decline-And-Fall-Off-The- Rooshan-Empire
Ay indeed
You know him, Wegg
I haven't been not to say right slap through him, very lately
Beside that cottage door, Mr Boffin, A girl was on her knees; She held aloft a snowy scarf, Sir, Which (my eldest brother noticed) fluttered in the breeze. She breathed a prayer for him, Mr Boffin; A prayer he coold not hear. And my eldest brother lean'd upon his sword, Mr Boffin, And wiped away a tear
Where I live
is called The Bower. Boffin's Bower is the name Mrs Boffin christened it when we come into it as a property. If you should meet with anybody that don't know it by that name (which hardly anybody does), when you've got nigh upon about a odd mile, or say and a quarter if you like, up Maiden Lane, Battle Bridge, ask for Harmony Jail, and you'll be put right. I shall expect you, Wegg
most joyfully. I shall have no peace or patience till you come. Print is now opening ahead of me. This night, a literary man -- WITH a wooden leg --' he bestowed an admiring look upon that decoration, as if it greatly enhanced the relish of Mr Wegg's attainments
Why, yer mean Old Harmon's, do yer
Why didn't yer niver say so? Eddard and me is a goin' by HIM! Jump in
Now, you look at Eddard's ears. What was it as you named, agin? Whisper
Boffin's Bower
Eddard! (keep yer hi on his ears) cut away to Boffin's Bower
Eddard! (keep yer hi on his ears) cut away to Old Harmon's
Was-it-Ev-verajail
Not a proper jail, wot you and me would get committed to
they giv' it the name, on accounts of Old Harmon living solitary there
And-why-did-they-callitharm-Ony
On accounts of his never agreeing with nobody. Like a speeches of chaff. Harmon's Jail; Harmony Jail. Working it round like
Doyouknow-Mist-Erboff-in
I should think so! Everybody do about here. Eddard knows him. (Keep yer hi on his ears.) Noddy Boffin, Eddard
Supper, Eddard
Mrs Boffin, Wegg
And I am sure I hope it'll do you both good
Do you like it, Wegg
I admire it greatly, sir
Peculiar comfort at this fireside, sir
Do you understand it, Wegg
Why, in a general way, sir
You DON'T understand it, Wegg, and I'll explain it. These arrangements is made by mutual consent between Mrs Boffin and me. Mrs Boffin, as I've mentioned, is a highflyer at Fashion; at present I'm not. I don't go higher than comfort, and comfort of the sort that I'm equal to the enjoyment of. Well then. Where would be the good of Mrs Boffin and me quarrelling over it? We never did quarrel, before we come into Boffin's Bower as a property; why quarrel when we HAVE come into Boffin's Bower as a property? So Mrs Boffin, she keeps up her part of the room, in her way; I keep up my part of the room in mine. In consequence of which we have at once, Sociability (I should go melancholy mad without Mrs Boffin), Fashion, and Comfort. If I get by degrees to be a higher- flyer at Fashion, then Mrs Boffin will by degrees come for'arder. If Mrs Boffin should ever be less of a dab at Fashion than she is at the present time, then Mrs Boffin's carpet would go back'arder. If we should both continny as we are, why then HERE we are, and give us a kiss, old lady
So now, Wegg
Thank you, sir
I generally do it on gin and water
Keeps the organ moist, does it, Wegg
N-no, sir
I should hardly describe it so, sir. I should say, mellers it. Mellers it, is the word I should employ, Mr Boffin
Sorry to deprive you of a pipe, Wegg
but you can't do both together. Oh! and another thing I forgot to name! When you come in here of an evening, and look round you, and notice anything on a shelf that happens to catch your fancy, mention it
You read my thoughts, sir. DO my eyes deceive me, or is that object up there a -- a pie? It can't be a pie
Yes, it's a pie, Wegg
HAVE I lost my smell for fruits, or is it a apple pie, sir
It's a veal and ham pie
Is it indeed, sir? And it would be hard, sir, to name the pie that is a better pie than a weal and hammer
Have some, Wegg
Thank you, Mr Boffin, I think I will, at your invitation. I wouldn't at any other party's, at the present juncture; but at yours, sir!-- And meaty jelly too, especially when a little salt, which is the case where there's ham, is mellering to the organ, is very mellering to the organ
There are such and such edibles down stairs; will you have anything up
Cast your eye along the shelves, and, if you see anything you like there, have it down
Hem
This, Mr Boffin and Lady, is the first chapter of the first wollume of the Decline and Fall off
What's the matter, Wegg
Why, it comes into my mind, do you know, sir
that you made a little mistake this morning, which I had meant to set you right in, only something put it out of my head. I think you said Rooshan Empire, sir
It is Rooshan; ain't it, Wegg
No, sir. Roman. Roman
What's the difference, Wegg
The difference, sir
The difference, sir? There you place me in a difficulty, Mr Boffin. Suffice it to observe, that the difference is best postponed to some other occasion when Mrs Boffin does not honour us with her company. In Mrs Boffin's presence, sir, we had better drop it
In Mrs Boffin's presence, sir, we had better drop it
not to have acted up to his name' in his government of the Roman people. With the death of this personage, Mr Wegg terminated his first reading; long before which consummation several total eclipses of Mrs Boffin's candle behind her black velvet disc, would have been very alarming, but for being regularly accompanied by a potent smell of burnt pens when her feathers took fire, which acted as a restorative and woke her. Mr Wegg, having read on by rote and attached as few ideas as possible to the text, came out of the encounter fresh; but, Mr Boffin, who had soon laid down his unfinished pipe, and had ever since sat intently staring with his eyes and mind at the confounding enormities of the Romans, was so severely punished that he could hardly wish his literary friend Good-night, and articulate 'Tomorrow
Commodious
Commodious fights in that wild-beast-show, seven hundred and thirty-five times, in one character only! As if that wasn't stunning enough, a hundred lions is turned into the same wild-beast-show all at once! As if that wasn't stunning enough, Commodious, in another character, kills 'em all off in a hundred goes! As if that wasn't stunning enough, Vittle-us (and well named too) eats six millions' worth, English money, in seven months! Wegg takes it easy, but upon- my-soul to a old bird like myself these are scarers. And even now that Commodious is strangled, I don't see a way to our bettering ourselves
I didn't think this morning there was half so many Scarers in Print. But I'm in for it now
Now, you mind, you Riderhood
the Fellowship don't want you at all, and would rather by far have your room than your company; but if you were as welcome here as you are not, you shouldn't even then have another drop of drink here this night, after this present pint of beer. So make the most of it
But you know, Miss Potterson
if I behave myself, you can't help serving me, miss
CAN'T I
No, Miss Potterson; because, you see, the law
I am the law here, my man
and I'll soon convince you of that, if you doubt it at all
I never said I did doubt it at all, Miss Abbey
So much the better for you
You're cruel hard upon me, Miss Potterson
Miss Potterson! Ma'am! Might I have half a word with you
Well
say your half word. Bring it out
Miss Potterson! Ma'am! Would you 'sxcuse me taking the liberty of asking, is it my character that you take objections to
Certainly
Is it that you're afraid of
I am not afraid OF YOU
if you mean that
But I humbly don't mean that, Miss Abbey
Then what do you mean
You really are so cruel hard upon me! What I was going to make inquiries was no more than, might you have any apprehensions -- leastways beliefs or suppositions -- that the company's property mightn't be altogether to be considered safe, if I used the house too regular
What do you want to know for
Well, Miss Abbey, respectfully meaning no offence to you, it would be some satisfaction to a man's mind, to understand why the Fellowship Porters is not to be free to such as me, and is to be free to such as Gaffer
Gaffer has never been where you have been
Signifying in Quod, Miss? Perhaps not. But he may have merited it. He may be suspected of far worse than ever I was
Who suspects him
Many, perhaps. One, beyond all doubts. I do
YOU are not much
But I was his pardner. Mind you, Miss Abbey, I was his pardner. As such I know more of the ins and outs of him than any person living does. Notice this! I am the man that was his pardner, and I am the man that suspects him
Then
you criminate yourself
No I don't, Miss Abbey. For how does it stand? It stands this way. When I was his pardner, I couldn't never give him satisfaction. Why couldn't I never give him satisfaction? Because my luck was bad; because I couldn't find many enough of 'em. How was his luck? Always good. Notice this! Always good! Ah! There's a many games, Miss Abbey, in which there's chance, but there's a many others in which there's skill too, mixed along with it
That Gaffer has a skill in finding what he finds, who doubts, man
A skill in purwiding what he finds, perhaps
If you're out upon the river pretty nigh every tide, and if you want to find a man or woman in the river, you'll greatly help your luck, Miss Abbey, by knocking a man or woman on the head aforehand and pitching 'em in
Gracious Lud
Mind you
I say so, Miss Abbey! And mind you! I'll follow him up, Miss Abbey! And mind you! I'll bring him to hook at last, if it's twenty year hence, I will! Who's he, to he favoured along of his daughter? Ain't I got a daughter of my own
George Jones, your time's up! I told your wife you should be punctual
William Williams, Bob Glamour, and Jonathan, you are all due
Captain Joey, you have had as much as will do you good
Ay, ay, Captain! Miss Abbey's right; you be guided by Miss Abbey, Captain
Tom Tootle, it's time for a young fellow who's going to be married next month, to be at home and asleep. And you needn't nudge him, Mr Jack Mullins, for I know your work begins early tomorrow, and I say the same to you. So come! Good-night, like good lads
You Bob Gliddery
run round to Hexam's and tell his daughter Lizzie that I want to speak to her
Come in and sit ye down, girl
Can you eat a bit
No thank you, Miss. I have had my supper
I have had mine too, I think
and more than enough of it. I am put out, Lizzie
I am very sorry for it, Miss
Then why, in the name of Goodness
do you do it
I do it, Miss
There, there. Don't look astonished. I ought to have begun with a word of explanation, but it's my way to make short cuts at things. I always was a pepperer. You Bob Gliddery there, put the chain upon the door and get ye down to your supper
Lizzie Hexam, Lizzie Hexam
how often have I held out to you the opportunity of getting clear of your father, and doing well
Very often, Miss
Very often? Yes! And I might as well have spoken to the iron funnel of the strongest sea-going steamer that passes the Fellowship Porters
No, Miss
because that would not be thankful, and I am
I vow and declare I am half ashamed of myself for taking such an interest in you
for I don't believe I should do it if you were not good-looking. Why ain't you ugly
However, you ain't
so it's no use going into that. I must take you as I find you. Which indeed is what I've done. And you mean to say you are still obstinate
Not obstinate, Miss, I hope
Firm (I suppose you call it) then
Yes, Miss. Fixed like
Never was an obstinate person yet, who would own to the word
I'm sure I would, if I was obstinate; but I am a pepperer, which is different. Lizzie Hexam, Lizzie Hexam, think again. Do you know the worst of your father
Do I know the worst of father
Do you know the suspicions to which your father makes himself liable? Do you know the suspicions that are actually about, against him
Say, Lizzie. Do you know
Please to tell me what the suspicions are, Miss
It's not an easy thing to tell a daughter, but it must be told. It is thought by some, then, that your father helps to their death a few of those that he finds dead
They little know father who talk like that
She takes it
very quietly. She takes it with extraordinary quietness
And perhaps
it is some one who has a grudge against father; some one who has threatened father! Is it Riderhood, Miss
Well; yes it is
Yes! He was father's partner, and father broke with him, and now he revenges himself. Father broke with him when I was by, and he was very angry at it. And besides, Miss Abbey!-- Will you never, without strong reason, let pass your lips what I am going to say
I promise
It was on the night when the Harmon murder was found out, through father, just above bridge. And just below bridge, as we were sculling home, Riderhood crept out of the dark in his boat. And many and many times afterwards, when such great pains were taken to come to the bottom of the crime, and it never could be come near, I thought in my own thoughts, could Riderhood himself have done the murder, and did he purposely let father find the body? It seemed a'most wicked and cruel to so much as think such a thing; but now that he tries to throw it upon father, I go back to it as if it was a truth. Can it be a truth? That was put into my mind by the dead
You poor deluded girl
don't you see that you can't open your mind to particular suspicions of one of the two, without opening your mind to general suspicions of the other? They had worked together. Their goings-on had been going on for some time. Even granting that it was as you have had in your thoughts, what the two had done together would come familiar to the mind of one
You don't know father, Miss, when you talk like that. Indeed, indeed, you don't know father
Lizzie, Lizzie
Leave him. You needn't break with him altogether, but leave him. Do well away from him; not because of what I have told you to-night -- we'll pass no judgment upon that, and we'll hope it may not be -- but because of what I have urged on you before. No matter whether it's owing to your good looks or not, I like you and I want to serve you. Lizzie, come under my direction. Don't fling yourself away, my girl, but be persuaded into being respectable and happy
Thank you, thank you! I can't. I won't. I must not think of it. The harder father is borne upon, the more he needs me to lean on
I have done what I can
Oh, Miss, will you forbid him the house where I know he's safe
The Fellowships
has itself to look to, as well as others. It has been hard work to establish order here, and make the Fellowships what it is, and it is daily and nightly hard work to keep it so. The Fellowships must not have a taint upon it that may give it a bad name. I forbid the house to Riderhood, and I forbid the house to Gaffer. I forbid both, equally. I find from Riderhood and you together, that there are suspicions against both men, and I'm not going to take upon myself to decide betwixt them. They are both tarred with a dirty brush, and I can't have the Fellowships tarred with the same brush. That's all I know
Good-night, Miss
Hah!-- Good-night
Believe me, Miss Abbey, I am truly grateful all the same
I can believe a good deal
so I'll try to believe that too, Lizzie
By the time of Miss Abbey's closing, and by the run of the tide, it must be one. Tide's running up. Father at Chiswick, wouldn't think of coming down, till after the turn, and that's at half after four. I'll call Charley at six. I shall hear the church-clocks strike, as I sit here
Charley's hollow down by the flare is not there now. Poor Charley
Hal-loa
You made me jump, Charley
Jump! Didn't you make ME jump, when I opened my eyes a moment ago, and saw you sitting there, like the ghost of a girl miser, in the dead of the night
It's not the dead of the night, Charley. It's nigh six in the morning
Is it though? But what are you up to, Liz
Still telling your fortune, Charley
It seems to be a precious small one, if that's it
What are you putting that little pile of money by itself for
For you, Charley
What do you mean
Get out of bed, Charley, and get washed and dressed, and then I'll tell you
I never
saw such a girl as you are. What IS the move, Liz
Are you almost ready for breakfast, Charley
You can pour it out. Hal-loa! I say? And a bundle
And a bundle, Charley
You don't mean it's for me, too
Yes, Charley; I do; indeed
You see, Charley dear, I have made up my mind that this is the right time for your going away from us. Over and above all the blessed change of by-and-bye, you'll be much happier, and do much better, even so soon as next month. Even so soon as next week
How do you know I shall
I don't quite know how, Charley, but I do
You must leave father to me, Charley -- I will do what I can with him -- but you must go
You don't stand upon ceremony, I think
I tell you what
you're a selfish jade, and you think there's not enough for three of us, and you want to get rid of me
If you believe so, Charley,-- yes, then I believe too, that I am a selfish jade, and that I think there's not enough for three of us, and that I want to get rid of you
Don't cry, don't cry! I am satisfied to go, Liz; I am satisfied to go. I know you send me away for my good
O, Charley, Charley, Heaven above us knows I do
Yes yes. Don't mind what I said. Don't remember it. Kiss me
Now listen, Charley dear. We both know it must be done, and I alone know there is good reason for its being done at once. Go straight to the school, and say that you and I agreed upon it -- that we can't overcome father's opposition -- that father will never trouble them, but will never take you back. You are a credit to the school, and you will be a greater credit to it yet, and they will help you to get a living. Show what clothes you have brought, and what money, and say that I will send some more money. If I can get some in no other way, I will ask a little help of those two gentlemen who came here that night
I say
Don't you have it of that chap that took hold of me by the chin! Don't you have it of that Wrayburn one
And above all things mind this, Charley! Be sure you always speak well of father. Be sure you always give father his full due. You can't deny that because father has no learning himself he is set against it in you; but favour nothing else against him, and be sure you say -- as you know -- that your sister is devoted to him. And if you should ever happen to hear anything said against father that is new to you, it will not be true. Remember, Charley! It will not be true
Above all things remember! It will not be true. I have nothing more to say, Charley dear, except, be good, and get learning, and only think of some things in the old life here, as if you had dreamed them in a dream last night. Good-bye, my Darling
Sit close to the fire, father, dear, while I cook your breakfast. It's all ready for cooking, and only been waiting for you. You must be frozen
Well, Lizzie, I ain't of a glow; that's certain. And my hands seem nailed through to the sculls. See how dead they are
You were not out in the perishing night, I hope, father
No, my dear. Lay aboard a barge, by a blazing coal-fire.-- Where's that boy
There's a drop of brandy for your tea, father, if you'll put it in while I turn this bit of meat. If the river was to get frozen, there would be a deal of distress; wouldn't there, father
Ah! there's always enough of that
distress is for ever a going about, like sut in the air -- Ain't that boy up yet
The meat's ready now, father. Eat it while it's hot and comfortable. After you have finished, we'll turn round to the fire and talk
What's gone with that boy
Father, if you'll begin your breakfast, I'll sit by and tell you
Now then. What's gone with that boy
Don't be angry, dear. It seems, father, that he has quite a gift of learning
Unnat'ral young beggar
And that having this gift, and not being equally good at other things, he has made shift to get some schooling
Unnat'ral young beggar
And that knowing you have nothing to spare, father, and not wishing to be a burden on you, he gradually made up his mind to go seek his fortune out of learning. He went away this morning, father, and he cried very much at going, and he hoped you would forgive him
Let him never come a nigh me to ask me my forgiveness
Let him never come within sight of my eyes, nor yet within reach of my arm. His own father ain't good enough for him. He's disowned his own father. His own father therefore, disowns him for ever and ever, as a unnat'ral young beggar
He's welcome to go. He's more welcome to go than to stay. But let him never come back. Let him never put his head inside that door. And let you never speak a word more in his favour, or you'll disown your own father, likewise, and what your father says of him he'll have to come to say of you. Now I see why them men yonder held aloof from me. They says to one another, "Here comes the man as ain't good enough for his own son!" Lizzie
Father, don't! I can't bear to see you striking with it. Put it down
Father, it's too horrible. O put it down, put it down
What's come to you, Liz? Can you think I would strike at you with a knife
No, father, no; you would never hurt me
What should I hurt
Nothing, dear father. On my knees, I am certain, in my heart and soul I am certain, nothing! But it was too dreadful to bear; for it looked --' her hands covering her face again, 'O it looked
What did it look like
Have we got a pest in the house? Is there summ'at deadly sticking to my clothes? What's let loose upon us? Who loosed it
Boffin will get all the eagerer for waiting a bit
If I get on with him as I expect to get on
it wouldn't become me to leave it here. It wouldn't he respectable
Good evening
Good evening, Mr Venus. Don't you remember
To be SURE
How do you do
Wegg, you know
Yes, yes
Hospital amputation
Just so
Yes, yes
How do you do? Sit down by the fire, and warm your -- your other one
For that
is musty, leathery, feathery, cellary, gluey, gummy, and
as it might be, strong of old pairs of bellows
My tea is drawing, and my muffin is on the hob, Mr Wegg; will you partake
And how have I been going on, this long time, Mr Venus
Very bad
What? Am I still at home
Always at home
Strange. To what do you attribute it
I don't know
to what to attribute it, Mr Wegg. I can't work you into a miscellaneous one, no how. Do what I will, you can't be got to fit. Anybody with a passable knowledge would pick you out at a look, and say,--"No go! Don't match
Well, but hang it, Mr Venus
that can't be personal and peculiar in ME. It must often happen with miscellaneous ones
With ribs (I grant you) always. But not else. When I prepare a miscellaneous one, I know beforehand that I can't keep to nature, and be miscellaneous with ribs, because every man has his own ribs, and no other man's will go with them; but elseways I can be miscellaneous. I have just sent home a Beauty -- a perfect Beauty -- to a school of art. One leg Belgian, one leg English, and the pickings of eight other people in it. Talk of not being qualified to be miscellaneous! By rights you OUGHT to be, Mr Wegg
that it must be the fault of the other people. Or how do you mean to say it comes about
I don't know how it comes about. Stand up a minute. Hold the light
No, I don't know how it is, but so it is. You have got a twist in that bone, to the best of my belief. I never saw the likes of you
I'll bet a pound that ain't an English one
An easy wager, when we run so much into foreign! No, it belongs to that French gentleman
that French gentleman
Oh
I dare say you were all right enough in your own country, but I hope no objections will be taken to my saying that the Frenchman was never yet born as I should wish to match
Come for the stuffed canary
It's three and ninepence
have you got the money
There
There's animation! On a twig, making up his mind to hop! Take care of him; he's a lovely specimen.-- And three is four
Stop him! Come back, you young villain! You've got a tooth among them halfpence
How was I to know I'd got it? You giv it me. I don't want none of your teeth; I've got enough of my own
Don't sauce ME, in the wicious pride of your youth
Very well, then
what do you call names for
Don't sauce ME, in the wicious pride of your youth; don't hit ME, because you see I'm down. You've no idea how small you'd come out, if I had the articulating of you
Oh dear me, dear me
the world that appeared so flowery has ceased to blow! You're casting your eye round the shop, Mr Wegg. Let me show you a light. My working bench. My young man's bench. A Wice. Tools. Bones, warious. Skulls, warious. Preserved Indian baby. African ditto. Bottled preparations, warious. Everything within reach of your hand, in good preservation. The mouldy ones a-top. What's in those hampers over them again, I don't quite remember. Say, human warious. Cats. Articulated English baby. Dogs. Ducks. Glass eyes, warious. Mummied bird. Dried cuticle, warious. Oh, dear me! That's the general panoramic view
Oh dear me, dear me
Where am I
You're somewhere in the back shop across the yard, sir; and speaking quite candidly, I wish I'd never bought you of the Hospital Porter
Now, look here, what did you give for me
Well
you were one of a warious lot, and I don't know
What will you take for me
Well
I'm not prepared, at a moment's notice, to tell you, Mr Wegg
Come! According to your own account I'm not worth much
Not for miscellaneous working in, I grant you, Mr Wegg; but you might turn out valuable yet, as a --' here Mr Venus takes a gulp of tea, so hot that it makes him choke, and sets his weak eyes watering; 'as a Monstrosity, if you'll excuse me
I think you know me, Mr Venus, and I think you know I never bargain
I have a prospect of getting on in life and elevating myself by my own independent exertions
and I shouldn't like -- I tell you openly I should NOT like -- under such circumstances, to be what I may call dispersed, a part of me here, and a part of me there, but should wish to collect myself like a genteel person
It's a prospect at present, is it, Mr Wegg? Then you haven't got the money for a deal about you? Then I'll tell you what I'll do with you; I'll hold you over. I am a man of my word, and you needn't be afraid of my disposing of you. I'll hold you over. That's a promise. Oh dear me, dear me
You seem very low, Mr Venus. Is business bad
Never was so good
Is your hand out at all
Never was so well in. Mr Wegg, I'm not only first in the trade, but I'm THE trade. You may go and buy a skeleton at the West End if you like, and pay the West End price, but it'll be my putting together. I've as much to do as I can possibly do, with the assistance of my young man, and I take a pride and a pleasure in it
That ain't a state of things to make you low, Mr Venus
Mr Wegg, I know it ain't. Mr Wegg, not to name myself as a workman without an equal, I've gone on improving myself in my knowledge of Anatomy, till both by sight and by name I'm perfect. Mr Wegg, if you was brought here loose in a bag to be articulated, I'd name your smallest bones blindfold equally with your largest, as fast as I could pick 'em out, and I'd sort 'em all, and sort your wertebrae, in a manner that would equally surprise and charm you
Well
THAT ain't a state of things to be low about.-- Not for YOU to be low about, leastways
Mr Wegg, I know it ain't; Mr Wegg, I know it ain't. But it's the heart that lowers me, it is the heart! Be so good as take and read that card out loud
Mr Venus
Yes. Go on
Preserver of Animals and Birds
Yes. Go on
Articulator of human bones
That's it
That's it! Mr Wegg, I'm thirty-two, and a bachelor. Mr Wegg, I love her. Mr Wegg, she is worthy of being loved by a Potentate
She objects to the business
Does she know the profits of it
She knows the profits of it, but she don't appreciate the art of it, and she objects to it. "I do not wish," she writes in her own handwriting, "to regard myself, nor yet to be regarded, in that boney light
And so a man climbs to the top of the tree, Mr Wegg, only to see that there's no look-out when he's up there! I sit here of a night surrounded by the lovely trophies of my art, and what have they done for me? Ruined me. Brought me to the pass of being informed that "she does not wish to regard herself, nor yet to be regarded, in that boney light
It lowers me. When I'm equally lowered all over, lethargy sets in. By sticking to it till one or two in the morning, I get oblivion. Don't let me detain you, Mr Wegg. I'm not company for any one
It is not on that account
but because I've got an appointment. It's time I was at Harmon's
Eh
Harmon's, up Battle Bridge way
You ought to be in a good thing, if you've worked yourself in there. There's lots of money going, there
To think
that you should catch it up so quick, and know about it. Wonderful
Not at all, Mr Wegg. The old gentleman wanted to know the nature and worth of everything that was found in the dust; and many's the bone, and feather, and what not, that he's brought to me
Really, now
Yes. (Oh dear me, dear me!) And he's buried quite in this neighbourhood, you know. Over yonder
I took an interest in that discovery in the river
The old gentleman was well known all round here. There used to be stories about his having hidden all kinds of property in those dust mounds. I suppose there was nothing in 'em. Probably you know, Mr Wegg
Nothing in 'em
Don't let me detain you. Good night
Morning, morning, morning
Governor in
Mr Lightwood gave you an appointment, sir, I think
I don't want him to give it, you know
I'll pay my way, my boy
No doubt, sir. Would you walk in? Mr Lightwood ain't in at the present moment, but I expect him back very shortly. Would you take a seat in Mr Lightwood's room, sir, while I look over our Appointment Book
Mr Aggs, Mr Baggs, Mr Caggs, Mr Daggs, Mr Faggs, Mr Gaggs, Mr Boffin. Yes, sir; quite right. You are a little before your time, sir. Mr Lightwood will be in directly
I'm not in a hurry
Thank you, sir. I'll take the opportunity, if you please, of entering your name in our Callers' Book for the day
Mr Alley, Mr Balley, Mr Calley, Mr Dalley, Mr Falley, Mr Galley, Mr Halley, Mr Lalley, Mr Malley. And Mr Boffin
Strict system here; eh, my lad
Yes, sir
I couldn't get on without it
How long have you been in the law, now
I've been in the law, now, sir, about three years
Must have been as good as born in it
Do you like it
I don't mind it much
What wages do you get
Half what I could wish
What's the whole that you could wish
Fifteen shillings a week
About how long might it take you now, at a average rate of going, to be a Judge
I suppose there's nothing to prevent your going in for it
Would a couple of pound help you up at all
And they seem to have taken a deal out of you
And what is particularly eligible in the property Mr Boffin, is, that it involves no trouble. There are no estates to manage, no rents to return so much per cent upon in bad times (which is an extremely dear way of getting your name into the newspapers), no voters to become parboiled in hot water with, no agents to take the cream off the milk before it comes to table. You could put the whole in a cash-box to-morrow morning, and take it with you to -- say, to the Rocky Mountains. Inasmuch as every man
appears to be under a fatal spell which obliges him, sooner or later, to mention the Rocky Mountains in a tone of extreme familiarity to some other man, I hope you'll excuse my pressing you into the service of that gigantic range of geographical bores
Well
I don't know what to say about it, I am sure. I was a'most as well as I was. It's a great lot to take care of
My dear Mr Boffin, then DON'T take care of it
Eh
Speaking now
with the irresponsible imbecility of a private individual, and not with the profundity of a professional adviser, I should say that if the circumstance of its being too much, weighs upon your mind, you have the haven of consolation open to you that you can easily make it less. And if you should be apprehensive of the trouble of doing so, there is the further haven of consolation that any number of people will take the trouble off your hands
Well! I don't quite see it
That's not satisfactory, you know, what you're a-saying
Is Anything satisfactory, Mr Boffin
I used to find it so
While I was foreman at the Bower -- afore it WAS the Bower -- I considered the business very satisfactory. The old man was a awful Tartar (saying it, I'm sure, without disrespect to his memory) but the business was a pleasant one to look after, from before daylight to past dark. It's a'most a pity
that he ever went and made so much money. It would have been better for him if he hadn't so given himself up to it. You may depend upon it
that HE found it a great lot to take care of
And speaking of satisfactory
why, Lord save us! when we come to take it to pieces, bit by bit, where's the satisfactoriness of the money as yet? When the old man does right the poor boy after all, the poor boy gets no good of it. He gets made away with, at the moment when he's lifting (as one may say) the cup and sarser to his lips. Mr Lightwood, I will now name to you, that on behalf of the poor dear boy, me and Mrs Boffin have stood out against the old man times out of number, till he has called us every name be could lay his tongue to. I have seen him, after Mrs Boffin has given him her mind respecting the claims of the nat'ral affections, catch off Mrs Boffin's bonnet (she wore, in general, a black straw, perched as a matter of convenience on the top of her head), and send it spinning across the yard. I have indeed. And once, when he did this in a manner that amounted to personal, I should have given him a rattler for himself, if Mrs Boffin hadn't thrown herself betwixt us, and received flush on the temple. Which dropped her, Mr Lightwood. Dropped her
Equal honour -- Mrs Boffin's head and heart
You understand; I name this
to show you, now the affairs are wound up, that me and Mrs Boffin have ever stood as we were in Christian honour bound, the children's friend. Me and Mrs Boffin stood the poor girl's friend; me and Mrs Boffin stood the poor boy's friend; me and Mrs Boffin up and faced the old man when we momently expected to be turned out for our pains. As to Mrs Boffin
she mightn't wish it mentioned now she's Fashionable, but she went so far as to tell him, in my presence, he was a flinty-hearted rascal
Vigorous Saxon spirit -- Mrs Boffin's ancestors -- bowmen -- Agincourt and Cressy
The last time me and Mrs Boffin saw the poor boy
he was a child of seven year old. For when he came back to make intercession for his sister, me and Mrs Boffin were away overlooking a country contract which was to be sifted before carted, and he was come and gone in a single hour. I say he was a child of seven year old. He was going away, all alone and forlorn, to that foreign school, and he come into our place, situate up the yard of the present Bower, to have a warm at our fire. There was his little scanty travelling clothes upon him. There was his little scanty box outside in the shivering wind, which I was going to carry for him down to the steamboat, as the old man wouldn't hear of allowing a sixpence coach-money. Mrs Boffin, then quite a young woman and pictur of a full-blown rose, stands him by her, kneels down at the fire, warms her two open hands, and falls to rubbing his cheeks; but seeing the tears come into the child's eyes, the tears come fast into her own, and she holds him round the neck, like as if she was protecting him, and cries to me, "I'd give the wide wide world, I would, to run away with him!" I don't say but what it cut me, and but what it at the same time heightened my feelings of admiration for Mrs Boffin. The poor child clings to her for awhile, as she clings to him, and then, when the old man calls, he says "I must go! God bless you!" and for a moment rests his heart against her bosom, and looks up at both of us, as if it was in pain -- in agony. Such a look! I went aboard with him (I gave him first what little treat I thought he'd like), and I left him when he had fallen asleep in his berth, and I came back to Mrs Boffin. But tell her what I would of how I had left him, it all went for nothing, for, according to her thoughts, he never changed that look that he had looked up at us two. But it did one piece of good. Mrs Boffin and me had no child of our own, and had sometimes wished that how we had one. But not now. "We might both of us die," says Mrs Boffin, "and other eyes might see that lonely look in our child." So of a night, when it was very cold, or when the wind roared, or the rain dripped heavy, she would wake sobbing, and call out in a fluster, "Don't you see the poor child's face? O shelter the poor child!" -- till in course of years it gently wore out, as many things do
My dear Mr Boffin, everything wears to rags
I won't go so far as to say everything
because there's some things that I never found among the dust. Well, sir. So Mrs Boffin and me grow older and older in the old man's service, living and working pretty hard in it, till the old man is discovered dead in his bed. Then Mrs Boffin and me seal up his box, always standing on the table at the side of his bed, and having frequently heerd tell of the Temple as a spot where lawyer's dust is contracted for, I come down here in search of a lawyer to advise, and I see your young man up at this present elevation, chopping at the flies on the window-sill with his penknife, and I give him a Hoy! not then having the pleasure of your acquaintance, and by that means come to gain the honour. Then you, and the gentleman in the uncomfortable neck-cloth under the little archway in Saint Paul's Churchyard
Doctors' Commons
I understood it was another name
but you know best. Then you and Doctor Scommons, you go to work, and you do the thing that's proper, and you and Doctor S. take steps for finding out the poor boy, and at last you do find out the poor boy, and me and Mrs Boffin often exchange the observation, "We shall see him again, under happy circumstances." But it was never to be; and the want of satisfactoriness is, that after all the money never gets to him
But it gets
into excellent hands
It gets into the hands of me and Mrs Boffin only this very day and hour, and that's what I am working round to, having waited for this day and hour a' purpose. Mr Lightwood, here has been a wicked cruel murder. By that murder me and Mrs Boffin mysteriously profit. For the apprehension and conviction of the murderer, we offer a reward of one tithe of the property -- a reward of Ten Thousand Pound
Mr Boffin, it's too much
Mr Lightwood, me and Mrs Boffin have fixed the sum together, and we stand to it
But let me represent to you
speaking now with professional profundity, and not with individual imbecility, that the offer of such an immense reward is a temptation to forced suspicion, forced construction of circumstances, strained accusation, a whole tool-box of edged tools
Well
that's the sum we put o' one side for the purpose. Whether it shall be openly declared in the new notices that must now be put about in our names
In your name, Mr Boffin; in your name
Very well; in my name, which is the same as Mrs Boffin's, and means both of us, is to be considered in drawing 'em up. But this is the first instruction that I, as the owner of the property, give to my lawyer on coming into it
Your lawyer, Mr Boffin
has the gratification of taking the instruction. There is another
There is just one other, and no more. Make me as compact a little will as can be reconciled with tightness, leaving the whole of the property to "my beloved wife, Henerietty Boffin, sole executrix". Make it as short as you can, using those words; but make it tight
I beg your pardon, but professional profundity must be exact. When you say tight
I mean tight
Exactly so. And nothing can be more laudable. But is the tightness to bind Mrs Boffin to any and what conditions
Bind Mrs Boffin
No! What are you thinking of! What I want is, to make it all hers so tight as that her hold of it can't be loosed
Hers freely, to do what she likes with? Hers absolutely
Absolutely
Hah! I should think so! It would be handsome in me to begin to bind Mrs Boffin at this time of day
Let me make you two known to one another
Delighted
to know Mr Boffin
Thankee, sir, thankee
And how do YOU like the law
A -- not particularly
Too dry for you, eh? Well, I suppose it wants some years of sticking to, before you master it. But there's nothing like work. Look at the bees
I beg your pardon
but will you excuse my mentioning that I always protest against being referred to the bees
Do you
I object on principle
as a biped
As a what
As a two-footed creature;-- I object on principle, as a two-footed creature, to being constantly referred to insects and four-footed creatures. I object to being required to model my proceedings according to the proceedings of the bee, or the dog, or the spider, or the camel. I fully admit that the camel, for instance, is an excessively temperate person; but he has several stomachs to entertain himself with, and I have only one. Besides, I am not fitted up with a convenient cool cellar to keep my drink in
But I said, you know
the bee
Exactly. And may I represent to you that it's injudicious to say the bee? For the whole case is assumed. Conceding for a moment that there is any analogy between a bee, and a man in a shirt and pantaloons (which I deny), and that it is settled that the man is to learn from the bee (which I also deny), the question still remains, what is he to learn? To imitate? Or to avoid? When your friends the bees worry themselves to that highly fluttered extent about their sovereign, and become perfectly distracted touching the slightest monarchical movement, are we men to learn the greatness of Tuft- hunting, or the littleness of the Court Circular? I am not clear, Mr Boffin, but that the hive may be satirical
At all events, they work
Ye-es
they work; but don't you think they overdo it? They work so much more than they need -- they make so much more than they can eat -- they are so incessantly boring and buzzing at their one idea till Death comes upon them -- that don't you think they overdo it? And are human labourers to have no holidays, because of the bees? And am I never to have change of air, because the bees don't? Mr Boffin, I think honey excellent at breakfast; but, regarded in the light of my conventional schoolmaster and moralist, I protest against the tyrannical humbug of your friend the bee. With the highest respect for you
Thankee
Morning, morning
Now then
what's the next article
I beg your pardon, Mr Boffin
My name too, eh? How did you come by it? I don't know you
No, sir, you don't know me
No
I DON'T know you
I am nobody
and not likely to be known; but Mr Boffin's wealth
Oh! that's got about already, has it
And his romantic manner of acquiring it, make him conspicuous. You were pointed out to me the other day
Well
I should say I was a disappintment to you when I WAS pinted out, if your politeness would allow you to confess it, for I am well aware I am not much to look at. What might you want with me? Not in the law, are you
No, sir
No information to give, for a reward
No, sir
If I don't mistake, you have followed me from my lawyer's and tried to fix my attention. Say out! Have you? Or haven't you
Yes
Why have you
If you will allow me to walk beside you, Mr Boffin, I will tell you. Would you object to turn aside into this place -- I think it is called Clifford's Inn -- where we can hear one another better than in the roaring street
Now
if he proposes a game at skittles, or meets a country gentleman just come into property, or produces any article of jewellery he has found, I'll knock him down
Mr Boffin, I happened to be in Chancery Lane this morning, when I saw you going along before me. I took the liberty of following you, trying to make up my mind to speak to you, till you went into your lawyer's. Then I waited outside till you came out
Don't quite sound like skittles, nor yet country gentleman, nor yet jewellery
but there's no knowing
I am afraid my object is a bold one, I am afraid it has little of the usual practical world about it, but I venture it. If you ask me, or if you ask yourself -- which is more likely -- what emboldens me, I answer, I have been strongly assured, that you are a man of rectitude and plain dealing, with the soundest of sound hearts, and that you are blessed in a wife distinguished by the same qualities
Your information is true of Mrs Boffin, anyhow
When I add, I can discern for myself what the general tongue says of you -- that you are quite unspoiled by Fortune, and not uplifted -- I trust you will not, as a man of an open nature, suspect that I mean to flatter you, but will believe that all I mean is to excuse myself, these being my only excuses for my present intrusion
How much
It must be coming to money. How much
You will probably change your manner of living, Mr Boffin, in your changed circumstances. You will probably keep a larger house, have many matters to arrange, and be beset by numbers of correspondents. If you would try me as your Secretary
As WHAT
Your Secretary
Well
that's a queer thing
Or
if you would try me as your man of business under any name, I know you would find me faithful and grateful, and I hope you would find me useful. You may naturally think that my immediate object is money. Not so, for I would willingly serve you a year -- two years -- any term you might appoint -- before that should begin to be a consideration between us
Where do you come from
I come
from many countries
From -- any particular place
I have been in many places
What have you been
I have been a student and a traveller
But if it ain't a liberty to plump it out
what do you do for your living
I have mentioned
what I aspire to do. I have been superseded as to some slight intentions I had, and I may say that I have now to begin life
All this time
I have not mentioned my name. My name is Rokesmith. I lodge at one Mr Wilfer's, at Holloway
Father of Miss Bella Wilfer
My landlord has a daughter named Bella. Yes; no doubt
That's singular, too
Though, by-the-bye, I suppose it was one of that family that pinted me out
No. I have never been in the streets with one of them
Heard me talked of among 'em, though
No. I occupy my own rooms, and have held scarcely any communication with them
Odder and odder
Well, sir, to tell you the truth, I don't know what to say to you
Say nothing
allow me to call on you in a few days. I am not so unconscionable as to think it likely that you would accept me on trust at first sight, and take me out of the very street. Let me come to you for your further opinion, at your leisure
That's fair, and I don't object
but it must be on condition that it's fully understood that I no more know that I shall ever be in want of any gentleman as Secretary -- it WAS Secretary you said; wasn't it
Yes
Queer!-- You're sure it was Secretary? Are you
I am sure I said so
As Secretary
I no more know that I may ever want a Secretary, or what not, than I do that I shall ever be in want of the man in the moon. Me and Mrs Boffin have not even settled that we shall make any change in our way of life. Mrs Boffin's inclinations certainly do tend towards Fashion; but, being already set up in a fashionable way at the Bower, she may not make further alterations. However, sir, as you don't press yourself, I wish to meet you so far as saying, by all means call at the Bower if you like. Call in the course of a week or two. At the same time, I consider that I ought to name, in addition to what I have already named, that I have in my employment a literary man -- WITH a wooden leg -- as I have no thoughts of parting from
I regret to hear I am in some sort anticipated
but perhaps other duties might arise
You see
as to my literary man's duties, they're clear. Professionally he declines and he falls, and as a friend he drops into poetry
And now, sir, I'll wish you good-day. You can call at the Bower any time in a week or two. It's not above a mile or so from you, and your landlord can direct you to it. But as he may not know it by it's new name of Boffin's Bower, say, when you inquire of him, it's Harmon's; will you
Harmoon's
Harmarn's. How do you spell it
Why, as to the spelling of it
that's YOUR look out. Harmon's is all you've got to say to HIM. Morning, morning, morning
This brings us round, my dear
to the question we left unfinished: namely, whether there's to be any new go-in for Fashion
Now, I'll tell you what I want, Noddy
I want Society
Fashionable Society, my dear
Yes
Yes! It's no good my being kept here like Wax-Work; is it now
People have to pay to see Wax-Work, my dear
whereas (though you'd be cheap at the same money) the neighbours is welcome to see YOU for nothing
But it don't answer
When we worked like the neighbours, we suited one another. Now we have left work off; we have left off suiting one another
What, do you think of beginning work again
Out of the question! We have come into a great fortune, and we must do what's right by our fortune; we must act up to it
I suppose we must
It's never been acted up to yet, and, consequently, no good has come of it
True, to the present time
I hope good may be coming of it in the future time. Towards which, what's your views, old lady
I say, a good house in a good neighbourhood, good things about us, good living, and good society. I say, live like our means, without extravagance, and be happy
Yes. I say be happy, too
Lor-a-mussy
when I think of me in a light yellow chariot and pair, with silver boxes to the wheels
Oh! you was thinking of that, was you, my dear
Yes
And with a footman up behind, with a bar across, to keep his legs from being poled! And with a coachman up in front, sinking down into a seat big enough for three of him, all covered with upholstery in green and white! And with two bay horses tossing their heads and stepping higher than they trot long-ways! And with you and me leaning back inside, as grand as ninepence! Oh-h-h-h My! Ha ha ha ha ha
And what, my old lady
what's your views on the subject of the Bower
Shut it up. Don't part with it, but put somebody in it, to keep it
Any other views
Noddy
Next I think -- and I really have been thinking early and late -- of the disappointed girl; her that was so cruelly disappointed, you know, both of her husband and his riches. Don't you think we might do something for her? Have her to live with us? Or something of that sort
Ne-ver once thought of the way of doing it
What a thinking steam-ingein this old lady is. And she don't know how she does it. Neither does the ingein
Last, and not least, I have taken a fancy. You remember dear little John Harmon, before he went to school? Over yonder across the yard, at our fire? Now that he is past all benefit of the money, and it's come to us, I should like to find some orphan child, and take the boy and adopt him and give him John's name, and provide for him. Somehow, it would make me easier, I fancy. Say it's only a whim
But I don't say so
No, but deary, if you did
I should be a Beast if I did
That's as much as to say you agree? Good and kind of you, and like you, deary! And don't you begin to find it pleasant now
don't you begin to find it pleasant already, to think that a child will be made brighter, and better, and happier, because of that poor sad child that day? And isn't it pleasant to know that the good will be done with the poor sad child's own money
Yes; and it's pleasant to know that you are Mrs Boffin
and it's been a pleasant thing to know this many and many a year
Nod-dy Bof-fin
Bof-fin's mon-ey
Down with the dust, Bof-fin
I think
that you have never had a child of your own, Mr and Mrs Boffin
But, like the Kings and Queens in the Fairy Tales, I suppose you have wished for one
Those kings and queens were always wishing for children
I think
we had better take Mrs Milvey into our Council. She is indispensable to me. If you please, I'll call her
Margaretta, my dear
Mr and Mrs Boffin, my dear, whose good fortune you have heard of
Mrs Boffin wishes to adopt a little boy, my dear
An orphan, my dear
Oh
And I was thinking, Margaretta, that perhaps old Mrs Goody's grandchild might answer the purpose. 'Oh my DEAR Frank! I DON'T think that would do
No
Oh NO
I DON'T think
But he would not be living with his grandmother then, Margaretta
No, Frank, but it would be impossible to keep her from Mrs Boffin's house; and the MORE there was to eat and drink there, the oftener she would go. And she IS an inconvenient woman. I HOPE it's not uncharitable to remember that last Christmas Eve she drank eleven cups of tea, and grumbled all the time. And she is NOT a grateful woman, Frank. You recollect her addressing a crowd outside this house, about her wrongs, when, one night after we had gone to bed, she brought back the petticoat of new flannel that had been given her, because it was too short
That's true
I don't think that would do. Would little Harrison
Oh, FRANK! ' remonstrated his emphatic wife. 'He has no grandmother, my dear
No, but I DON'T think Mrs Boffin would like an orphan who squints so MUCH
That's true again
If a little girl would do
But, my DEAR Frank, Mrs Boffin wants a boy
That's true again
But I DOUBT, Frank
if Mrs Boffin wants an orphan QUITE nineteen, who drives a cart and waters the roads
that's true again
I am sure
that if I had known you would have taken so much pains, sir -- and you too, ma' am -- I don't think I would have come
PRAY don't say that
No, don't say that
because we are so much obliged to you for giving us the preference
But it is a responsible trust
and difficult to discharge. At the same time, we are naturally very unwilling to lose the chance you so kindly give us, and if you could afford us a day or two to look about us,-- you know, Margaretta, we might carefully examine the workhouse, and the Infant School, and your District
To be SURE
We have orphans, I know
in stock
over at the clay-pits; but they are employed by relations or friends, and I am afraid it would come at last to a transaction in the way of barter. And even if you exchanged blankets for the child -- or books and firing -- it would be impossible to prevent their being turned into liquor
a twenty-pound note or so
Now, old lady
having made a very agreeable visit there, we'll try Wilfer's
Here's Mr and Mrs Boffin
they've been here half an hour
Who did you say
Please to walk in
Our servant is out
Mr and Mrs Boffin, I think
Yes, Miss
If you'll step this way -- down these stairs -- I'll let Ma know
Pardon me
to what am I indebted for this honour
To make short of it, ma'am
perhaps you may be acquainted with the names of me and Mrs Boffin, as having come into a certain property
I have heard, sir
of such being the case
And I dare say, ma'am
you are not very much inclined to take kindly to us
Pardon me
Twere unjust to visit upon Mr and Mrs Boffin, a calamity which was doubtless a dispensation
That's fairly meant, I am sure
Mrs Boffin and me, ma'am, are plain people, and we don't want to pretend to anything, nor yet to go round and round at anything because there's always a straight way to everything. Consequently, we make this call to say, that we shall be glad to have the honour and pleasure of your daughter's acquaintance, and that we shall be rejoiced if your daughter will come to consider our house in the light of her home equally with this. In short, we want to cheer your daughter, and to give her the opportunity of sharing such pleasures as we are a going to take ourselves. We want to brisk her up, and brisk her about, and give her a change
That's it
Lor! Let's be comfortable
Pardon me. I have several daughters. Which of my daughters am I to understand is thus favoured by the kind intentions of Mr Boffin and his lady
Don't you see
Naturally, Miss Bella, you know
Oh-h
My daughter Bella is accessible and shall speak for herself
Send Miss Bella to me
The avocations of R. W., my husband
keep him fully engaged in the City at this time of the day, or he would have had the honour of participating in your reception beneath our humble roof
Very pleasant premises
Pardon me, sir
it is the abode of conscious though independent Poverty
I am much obliged to you, I am sure
but I doubt if I have the inclination to go out at all
Bella
Bella, you must conquer this
Yes, do what your Ma says, and conquer it, my dear
because we shall be so glad to have you, and because you are much too pretty to keep yourself shut up
We are going to move into a nice house
and we are going to set up a nice carriage, and we'll go everywhere and see everything. And you mustn't
you mustn't feel a dislike to us to begin with, because we couldn't help it, you know, my dear
My youngest daughter, Lavinia
Mr George Sampson, a friend of the family
If you like to bring your sister with you when you come to stay with us
of course we shall be glad. The better you please yourself, Miss Bella, the better you'll please us
Oh, my consent is of no consequence at all, I suppose
Lavvy
have the goodness to be seen and not heard
No, I won't
I'm not a child, to be taken notice of by strangers
You ARE a child
I'm not a child, and I won't be taken notice of. "Bring your sister," indeed
Lavinia
Hold! I will not allow you to utter in my presence the absurd suspicion that any strangers -- I care not what their names -- can patronize my child. Do you dare to suppose, you ridiculous girl, that Mr and Mrs Boffin would enter these doors upon a patronizing errand; or, if they did, would remain within them, only for one single instant, while your mother had the strength yet remaining in her vital frame to request them to depart? You little know your mother if you presume to think so
It's all very fine
Hold! I will not allow this. Do you not know what is due to guests? Do you not comprehend that in presuming to hint that this lady and gentleman could have any idea of patronizing any member of your family -- I care not which -- you accuse them of an impertinence little less than insane
Never mind me and Mrs Boffin, ma'am
we don't care
Pardon me, but I do
Yes, to be sure
And I require my audacious child
to please to be just to her sister Bella; to remember that her sister Bella is much sought after; and that when her sister Bella accepts an attention, she considers herself to be conferring qui-i-ite as much honour
as she receives
I can speak for myself; you know, ma. You needn't bring ME in, please
And it's all very well aiming at others through convenient me
but I should like to ask George Sampson what he says to it
Mr Sampson
Mr Sampson, as a friend of this family and a frequenter of this house, is, I am persuaded, far too well-bred to interpose on such an invitation
Much obliged to you, but I'm always engaged, day and night
Your demerits shall be overlooked, and you shall be mercifully gratified, poor people
By-the-bye, ma'am
you have a lodger
A gentleman
undoubtedly occupies our first floor
I may call him Our Mutual Friend
What sort of a fellow IS Our Mutual Friend, now? Do you like him
Mr Rokesmith is very punctual, very quiet, a very eligible inmate
Because
you must know that I'm not particularly well acquainted with Our Mutual Friend, for I have only seen him once. You give a good account of him. Is he at home
Mr Rokesmith is at home
indeed
there he stands at the garden gate. Waiting for you, perhaps
Perhaps so
Saw me come in, maybe
How are you, sir, how are you
This is Mrs Boffin. Mr Rokesmith, that I told you of; my dear
Good-bye for the present, Miss Bella
We shall meet again soon! And then I hope I shall have my little John Harmon to show you
Gracious
What's the matter, sir
How can you show her the Dead
It's only an adopted child. One I have told her of. One I'm going to give the name to
You took me by surprise
and it sounded like an omen, that you should speak of showing the Dead to one so young and blooming
Those are worthy people, Miss Wilfer
Do you know them well
I know OF them
Truly, he told us he had seen you but once
Truly, I supposed he did
You thought it strange that, feeling much interested in you, I should start at what sounded like a proposal to bring you into contact with the murdered man who lies in his grave. I might have known -- of course in a moment should have known -- that it could not have that meaning. But my interest remains
There, Bella! At last I hope you have got your wishes realized -- by your Boffins. You'll be rich enough now -- with your Boffins. You can have as much flirting as you like -- at your Boffins. But you won't take ME to your Boffins, I can tell you -- you and your Boffins too
If
Miss Bella's Mr Boffin comes any more of his nonsense to ME, I only wish him to understand, as betwixt man and man, that he does it at his per
Of their manners
I say nothing. Of their appearance, I say nothing. Of the disinterestedness of their intentions towards Bella, I say nothing. But the craft, the secrecy, the dark deep underhanded plotting, written in Mrs Boffin's countenance, make me shudder
Anastatia, this must be a match
Not exactly
Not precisely so
Not engaged, and more than delighted
My dear Twemlow
your ready response to Anastatia's unceremonious invitation is truly kind, and like an old, old friend. You know our dear friend Podsnap
Our friends, Alfred and Sophronia
our friends Alfred and Sophronia, you will be glad to hear, my dear fellows, are going to be married. As my wife and I make it a family affair the entire direction of which we take upon ourselves, of course our first step is to communicate the fact to our family friends
Oh
then there are only two of us, and he's the other
I did hope
to have had Lady Tippins to meet you; but she is always in request, and is unfortunately engaged
Oh
then there are three of us, and SHE'S the other
Mortimer Lightwood
whom you both know, is out of town; but he writes, in his whimsical manner, that as we ask him to be bridegroom's best man when the ceremony takes place, he will not refuse, though he doesn't see what he has to do with it
Oh
then there are four of us, and HE'S the other
Boots and Brewer
whom you also know, I have not asked to-day; but I reserve them for the occasion
Then
there are si
We now come
to the point, the real point, of our little family consultation. Sophronia, having lost both father and mother, has no one to give her away
Give her away yourself
My dear Podsnap, no. For three reasons. Firstly, because I couldn't take so much upon myself when I have respected family friends to remember. Secondly, because I am not so vain as to think that I look the part. Thirdly, because Anastatia is a little superstitious on the subject and feels averse to my giving away anybody until baby is old enough to be married
What would happen if he did
My dear Mr Podsnap, it's very foolish I know, but I have an instinctive presentiment that if Hamilton gave away anybody else first, he would never give away baby
But, my dear Podsnap
there IS a tried friend of our family who, I think and hope you will agree with me, Podsnap, is the friend on whom this agreeable duty almost naturally devolves. That friend
is now among us. That friend is Twemlow
Certainly
That friend
is our dear good Twemlow. And I cannot sufficiently express to you, my dear Podsnap, the pleasure I feel in having this opinion of mine and Anastatia's so readily confirmed by you, that other equally familiar and tried friend who stands in the proud position -- I mean who proudly stands in the position -- or I ought rather to say, who places Anastatia and myself in the proud position of himself standing in the simple position -- of baby's godfather
Worn out by worry and excitement
No Adorable to bear me company here
No Adorable at the club! A waste, a waste, a waste, my Twemlow
What, what, what? Who, who, who? Why, why, why
Mortimer, you wretch
where is your charge, the bridegroom
Give you my honour
I don't know, and I don't care
Miserable! Is that the way you do your duty
Beyond an impression that he is to sit upon my knee and be seconded at some point of the solemnities, like a principal at a prizefight, I assure you I have no notion what my duty is
I believe this is my fellow, confound him
Bride; five-and-forty if a day, thirty shillings a yard, veil fifteen pound, pocket-handkerchief a present. Bridesmaids; kept down for fear of outshining bride, consequently not girls, twelve and sixpence a yard, Veneering's flowers, snub- nosed one rather pretty but too conscious of her stockings, bonnets three pound ten. Twemlow; blessed release for the dear man if she really was his daughter, nervous even under the pretence that she is, well he may be. Mrs Veneering; never saw such velvet, say two thousand pounds as she stands, absolute jeweller's window, father must have been a pawnbroker, or how could these people do it? Attendant unknowns; pokey
No, no, no, not for me. Take it away
Do you mean to tell me, then, Sophronia
Don't put it upon ME, sir. I ask you, do YOU mean to tell me
Do I mean to say
Putting it on me! The unmanly disingenuousness
The what
The meanness
That is not what you said. You said disingenuousness
What if I did
There is no "if" in the case. You did
I did, then. And what of it
What of it
Have you the face to utter the word to me
The face, too
Pray, how dare you, sir, utter the word to me
I never did
I don't care what you uttered or did not utter
You shall proceed in your own way. You claim a right to ask me do I mean to tell you. Do I mean to tell you what
That you are a man of property
No
Then you married me on false pretences
So be it. Next comes what you mean to say. Do you mean to say you are a woman of property
No
Then you married me on false pretences
If you were so dull a fortune-hunter that you deceived yourself, or if you were so greedy and grasping that you were over-willing to be deceived by appearances, is it my fault, you adventurer
I asked Veneering, and he told me you were rich
Veneering
Was he not your trustee
No. I have no trustee, but the one you saw on the day when you fraudulently married me. And his trust is not a very difficult one, for it is only an annuity of a hundred and fifteen pounds. I think there are some odd shillings or pence, if you are very particular
Question for question. It is my turn again, Mrs Lammle. What made you suppose me a man of property
You made me suppose you so. Perhaps you will deny that you always presented yourself to me in that character
But you asked somebody, too. Come, Mrs Lammle, admission for admission. You asked somebody
I asked Veneering
And Veneering knew as much of me as he knew of you, or as anybody knows of him
I never will forgive the Veneerings for this
Neither will I
Do you pretend to believe
when you talk of my marrying you for worldly advantages, that it was within the bounds of reasonable probability that I would have married you for yourself
Again there are two sides to the question, Mrs Lammle. What do you pretend to believe
So you first deceive me and then insult me
Not at all. I have originated nothing. The double-edged question was yours
Was mine
Throw it away
you have made it useless; you look ridiculous with it
A deliberate villain
Now, get up, Mrs Lammle, and let us speak reasonably
Get up, I tell you
You tell me! Tell me, forsooth
Enough of this. Come! Do you hear? Get up
Mrs Lammle, we have both been deceiving, and we have both been deceived. We have both been biting, and we have both been bitten. In a nut-shell, there's the state of the case
You sought me out
Tut! Let us have done with that. WE know very well how it was. Why should you and I talk about it, when you and I can't disguise it? To proceed. I am disappointed and cut a poor figure
Am I no one
Some one -- and I was coming to you, if you had waited a moment. You, too, are disappointed and cut a poor figure
An injured figure
You are now cool enough, Sophronia, to see that you can't be injured without my being equally injured; and that therefore the mere word is not to the purpose. When I look back, I wonder how I can have been such a fool as to take you to so great an extent upon trust
And when I look back
And when you look back, you wonder how you can have been -- you'll excuse the word
Most certainly, with so much reason. '-- Such a fool as to take ME to so great an extent upon trust. But the folly is committed on both sides. I cannot get rid of you; you cannot get rid of me. What follows
Shame and misery
I don't know. A mutual understanding follows, and I think it may carry us through. Here I split my discourse (give me your arm, Sophronia), into three heads, to make it shorter and plainer. Firstly, it's enough to have been done, without the mortification of being known to have been done. So we agree to keep the fact to ourselves. You agree
If it is possible, I do
Possible! We have pretended well enough to one another. Can't we, united, pretend to the world? Agreed. Secondly, we owe the Veneerings a grudge, and we owe all other people the grudge of wishing them to be taken in, as we ourselves have been taken in. Agreed
Yes. Agreed
We come smoothly to thirdly. You have called me an adventurer, Sophronia. So I am. In plain uncomplimentary English, so I am. So are you, my dear. So are many people. We agree to keep our own secret, and to work together in furtherance of our own schemes
What schemes
Any scheme that will bring us money. By our own schemes, I mean our joint interest. Agreed
I suppose so. Agreed
Carried at once, you see! Now, Sophronia, only half a dozen words more. We know one another perfectly. Don't be tempted into twitting me with the past knowledge that you have of me, because it is identical with the past knowledge that I have of you, and in twitting me, you twit yourself, and I don't want to hear you do it. With this good understanding established between us, it is better never done. To wind up all:-- You have shown temper today, Sophronia. Don't be betrayed into doing so again, because I have a Devil of a temper myself
I don't want to know about it; I don't choose to discuss it; I don't admit it
Not English
Georgiana is almost eighteen
Almost eighteen
Really I think we should have some people on Georgiana's birthday
Which will enable us to clear off all those people who are due
Asked, at any rate, and got rid of
Here you have as much of me in my ugliness as if I were only lead; but I am so many ounces of precious metal worth so much an ounce;-- wouldn't you like to melt me down
Madame Podsnap;' also his daughter as 'Mademoiselle Podsnap
ma fille
Monsieur Vey-nair-reeng
How Do You Like London
London, Londres, London
You find it Very Large
And Very Rich
Enormously Rich, We say
Our English adverbs do Not terminate in Mong, and We Pronounce the "ch" as if there were a "t" before it. We say Ritch
Reetch
And Do You Find, Sir
Many Evidences that Strike You, of our British Constitution in the Streets Of The World's Metropolis, London, Londres, London
The Constitution Britannique
The Constitution, Sir
Mais, yees; I know eem
ESKER
Mais oui
Est-ce que? Quoi donc
I Was Inquiring
Whether You Have Observed in our Streets as We should say, Upon our Pavvy as You would say, any Tokens
But what was tokenz
Marks
Signs, you know, Appearances -- Traces
Ah! Of a Orse
We call it Horse
In England, Angleterre, England, We Aspirate the "H," and We Say "Horse." Only our Lower Classes Say "Orse
Pardon
I am alwiz wrong
Our Language
is Difficult. Ours is a Copious Language, and Trying to Strangers. I will not Pursue my Question
ESKER
It merely referred
to Our Constitution, Sir. We Englishmen are Very Proud of our Constitution, Sir. It Was Bestowed Upon Us By Providence. No Other Country is so Favoured as This Country
And ozer countries
We do not say Ozer; we say Other: the letters are "T" and "H;" You say Tay and Aish, You Know; (still with clemency). The sound is "th"--"th
And OTHER countries
They do how
They do, Sir
they do -- I am sorry to be obliged to say it -- AS they do
It was a little particular of Providence
for the frontier is not large
Undoubtedly
But So it is. It was the Charter of the Land. This Island was Blest, Sir, to the Direct Exclusion of such Other Countries as -- as there may happen to be. And if we were all Englishmen present, I would say
that there is in the Englishman a combination of qualities, a modesty, an independence, a responsibility, a repose, combined with an absence of everything calculated to call a blush into the cheek of a young person, which one would seek in vain among the Nations of the Earth
Has anything more been heard, Veneering
of the lucky legatee
Nothing more
than that he has come into possession of the property. I am told people now call him The Golden Dustman. I mentioned to you some time ago, I think, that the young lady whose intended husband was murdered is daughter to a clerk of mine
Yes, you told me that
and by-the-bye, I wish you would tell it again here, for it's a curious coincidence -- curious that the first news of the discovery should have been brought straight to your table (when I was there), and curious that one of your people should have been so nearly interested in it. Just relate that, will you
Why don't you play
That card
Yes
Oh! Indeed, it's very kind of you, but I am afraid I DON'T talk
Let us make a beginning
Oh! I am afraid you'll find me very dull. But Ma talks
Fond of reading perhaps
Yes. At least I -- don't mind that so much
M-m-m-m-music. So insinuating was Mrs Lammle that she got half a dozen ms into the word before she got it out. 'I haven't nerve to play even if I could. Ma plays
Of course you like dancing
Oh no, I don't
No? With your youth and attractions? Truly, my dear, you surprise me
I can't say
how I might have liked it if I had been a -- you won't mention it, WILL you
My dear! Never
No, I am sure you won't. I can't say then how I should have liked it, if I had been a chimney-sweep on May-day
Gracious
There! I knew you'd wonder. But you won't mention it, will you
Upon my word, my love
you make me ten times more desirous, now I talk to you, to know you well than I was when I sat over yonder looking at you. How I wish we could be real friends! Try me as a real friend. Come! Don't fancy me a frumpy old married woman, my dear; I was married but the other day, you know; I am dressed as a bride now, you see. About the chimney-sweeps
Hush! Ma'll hear
She can't hear from where she sits
Don't you be too sure of that
Well, what I mean is, that they seem to enjoy it
And that perhaps you would have enjoyed it, if you had been one of them
Then you don't enjoy it now
How is it possible
Oh it is such a dreadful thing! If I was wicked enough -- and strong enough -- to kill anybody, it should be my partner
It sounds horrid, don't it
But it is, and it always has been
such a trial to me! I so dread being awful. And it is so awful! No one knows what I suffered at Madame Sauteuse's, where I learnt to dance and make presentation-curtseys, and other dreadful things -- or at least where they tried to teach me. Ma can do it
At any rate, my love
that's over
Yes, it's over
but there's nothing gained by that. It's worse here, than at Madame Sauteuse's. Ma was there, and Ma's here; but Pa wasn't there, and company wasn't there, and there were not real partners there. Oh there's Ma speaking to the man at the piano! Oh there's Ma going up to somebody! Oh I know she's going to bring him to me! Oh please don't, please don't, please don't! Oh keep away, keep away, keep away
Georgiana, Mr Grompus
set
Oh my goodness
THAT'S over! I hope you didn't look at me
My dear, why not
Oh I know all about myself
I'll tell you something I know about you, my dear
and that is, you are most unnecessarily shy
Ma ain't
I detest you! Go along
Pardon me if I scarcely see, my dear Miss Podsnap
If we are going to be real friends (and I suppose we are, for you are the only person who ever proposed it) don't let us be awful. It's awful enough to BE Miss Podsnap, without being called so. Call me Georgiana
Dearest Georgiana
Thank you
Dearest Georgiana, pardon me if I scarcely see, my love, why your mamma's not being shy, is a reason why you should be
Don't you really see that
Then perhaps it isn't
My dearest Georgiana, you defer much too readily to my poor opinion. Indeed it is not even an opinion, darling, for it is only a confession of my dullness
Oh YOU are not dull
I am dull, but you couldn't have made me talk if you were
What I mean is
that Ma being so endowed with awfulness, and Pa being so endowed with awfulness, and there being so much awfulness everywhere -- I mean, at least, everywhere where I am -- perhaps it makes me who am so deficient in awfulness, and frightened at it -- I say it very badly -- I don't know whether you can understand what I mean
Perfectly, dearest Georgiana
Oh there's Ma being awful with somebody with a glass in his eye! Oh I know she's going to bring him here! Oh don't bring him, don't bring him! Oh he'll be my partner with his glass in his eye! Oh what shall I do
set
I don't believe it
Then it was their own fault
There is not
there is not a country in the world, sir, where so noble a provision is made for the poor as in this country
Where
Ah
Easy to say somewhere; not so easy to say where! But I see what you are driving at. I knew it from the first. Centralization. No. Never with my consent. Not English
There you have him! Hold him
You know what the population of London is, I suppose
And you know; at least I hope you know;' said Mr Podsnap, with severity, 'that Providence has declared that you shall have the poor always with you
I am glad to hear it
I am glad to hear it. It will render you cautious how you fly in the face of Providence
I must decline to pursue this painful discussion. It is not pleasant to my feelings; it is repugnant to my feelings. I have said that I do not admit these things. I have also said that if they do occur (not that I admit it), the fault lies with the sufferers themselves. It is not for ME
me' forcibly, as adding by implication though it may be all very well for YOU
said Mr Podsnap, flushing high up among his hair- brushes, with a strong consciousness of personal affront, 'the subject is a very disagreeable one. I will go so far as to say it is an odious one. It is not one to be introduced among our wives and young persons, and I
Say Georgiana, darling
Towards -- shall I?-- Georgiana
For never have I known Sophronia (who is not apt to take sudden likings) so attracted and so captivated as she is by -- shall I once more?-- Georgiana
I wonder what you like me for! I am sure I can't think
Dearest Georgiana, for yourself. For your difference from all around you
Well! That may be. For I think I like you for your difference from all around me
We must be going with the rest
We are real friends, Georgiana dear
Real
Good night, dear girl
Don't forget me when you are gone away. And come again soon. Good night
Sophronia, are you awake
Am I likely to be asleep, sir
Very likely, I should think, after that fellow's company. Attend to what I am going to say
I have attended to what you have already said, have I not? What else have I been doing all to-night
Attend, I tell you
to what I am going to say. Keep close to that idiot girl. Keep her under your thumb. You have her fast, and you are not to let her go. Do you hear
I hear you
I foresee there is money to be made out of this, besides taking that fellow down a peg. We owe each other money, you know
The wind sounds up here
as if we were keeping a lighthouse. I wish we were
Don't you think it would bore us
Not more than any other place. And there would be no Circuit to go. But that's a selfish consideration, personal to me
And no clients to come
Not that that's a selfish consideration at all personal to ME
If we were on an isolated rock in a stormy sea
Lady Tippins couldn't put off to visit us, or, better still, might put off and get swamped. People couldn't ask one to wedding breakfasts. There would be no Precedents to hammer at, except the plain-sailing Precedent of keeping the light up. It would be exciting to look out for wrecks
But otherwise
there might be a degree of sameness in the life
I have thought of that also
but it would be a defined and limited monotony. It would not extend beyond two people. Now, it's a question with me, Mortimer, whether a monotony defined with that precision and limited to that extent, might not be more endurable than the unlimited monotony of one's fellow-creatures
We shall have an opportunity, in our boating summer, of trying the question
An imperfect one
but so we shall. I hope we may not prove too much for one another
Now, regarding your respected father
Yes, regarding my respected father
I would rather have approached my respected father by candlelight, as a theme requiring a little artificial brilliancy; but we will take him by twilight, enlivened with a glow of Wallsend
My respected father has found, down in the parental neighbourhood, a wife for his not-generally-respected son
With some money, of course
With some money, of course, or he would not have found her. My respected father -- let me shorten the dutiful tautology by substituting in future M. R. F., which sounds military, and rather like the Duke of Wellington
What an absurd fellow you are, Eugene
Not at all, I assure you. M. R. F. having always in the clearest manner provided (as he calls it) for his children by pre-arranging from the hour of the birth of each, and sometimes from an earlier period, what the devoted little victim's calling and course in life should be, M. R. F. pre-arranged for myself that I was to be the barrister I am (with the slight addition of an enormous practice, which has not accrued), and also the married man I am not
The first you have often told me
The first I have often told you. Considering myself sufficiently incongruous on my legal eminence, I have until now suppressed my domestic destiny. You know M. R. F., but not as well as I do. If you knew him as well as I do, he would amuse you
Filially spoken, Eugene
Perfectly so, believe me; and with every sentiment of affectionate deference towards M. R. F. But if he amuses me, I can't help it. When my eldest brother was born, of course the rest of us knew (I mean the rest of us would have known, if we had been in existence) that he was heir to the Family Embarrassments -- we call it before the company the Family Estate. But when my second brother was going to be born by-and-by, "this," says M. R. F., "is a little pillar of the church." WAS born, and became a pillar of the church; a very shaky one. My third brother appeared, considerably in advance of his engagement to my mother; but M. R. F., not at all put out by surprise, instantly declared him a Circumnavigator. Was pitch-forked into the Navy, but has not circumnavigated. I announced myself and was disposed of with the highly satisfactory results embodied before you. When my younger brother was half an hour old, it was settled by M. R. F. that he should have a mechanical genius. And so on. Therefore I say that M. R. F. amuses me
Touching the lady, Eugene
There M. R. F. ceases to be amusing, because my intentions are opposed to touching the lady
Do you know her
Not in the least
Hadn't you better see her
My dear Mortimer, you have studied my character. Could I possibly go down there, labelled "ELIGIBLE. ON VIEW," and meet the lady, similarly labelled? Anything to carry out M. R. F
But you are not a consistent fellow, Eugene
In susceptibility to boredom
I assure you I am the most consistent of mankind
Why, it was but now that you were dwelling in the advantages of a monotony of two
In a lighthouse. Do me the justice to remember the condition. In a lighthouse
No, there is no help for it; one of the prophetic deliveries of M. R. F. must for ever remain unfulfilled. With every disposition to oblige him, he must submit to a failure
As if
as if the churchyard ghosts were rising
Apparently one of the ghosts has lost its way, and dropped in to be directed. Look at this phantom
Who the devil are you
I ask your pardons, Governors
but might either on you be Lawyer Lightwood
What do you mean by not knocking at the door
I ask your pardons, Governors
but probable you was not aware your door stood open
What do you want
I ask your pardons, Governors, but might one on you be Lawyer Lightwood
One of us is
All right, Governors Both
tickler business
Now
what is it
Governors Both
which on you might be Lawyer Lightwood
I am
Lawyer Lightwood
I am a man as gets my living, and as seeks to get my living, by the sweat of my brow. Not to risk being done out of the sweat of my brow, by any chances, I should wish afore going further to be swore in
I am not a swearer in of people, man
Alfred David
Is that your name
My name
No; I want to take a Alfred David
I tell you, my good fellow
that I have nothing to do with swearing
He can swear AT you
and so can I. But we can't do more for you
Then I must be took down
Where
Here
In pen and ink
First, let us know what your business is about
It's about
it's about from five to ten thousand pound reward. That's what it's about. It's about Murder. That's what it's about
Come nearer the table. Sit down. Will you have a glass of wine
Yes, I will
and I don't deceive you, Governors
What do you think of it
What do YOU think of it
What do YOU think of it
We think well of it
Will you have another
Yes, I will
and I don't deceive you, Governors
Now
what's your name
Why, there you're rather fast, Lawyer Lightwood
Don't you see, Lawyer Lightwood? There you're a little bit fast. I'm going to earn from five to ten thousand pound by the sweat of my brow; and as a poor man doing justice to the sweat of my brow, is it likely I can afford to part with so much as my name without its being took down
Now
what's your name
I should wish, Lawyer Lightwood
to have that T'other Governor as my witness that what I said I said. Consequent, will the T'other Governor be so good as chuck me his name and where he lives
Now
if you have quite completed your various preparations, my friend, and have fully ascertained that your spirits are cool and not in any way hurried, what's your name
Roger Riderhood
Dwelling-place
Calling or occupation
Waterside character
Anything against you
Ever in trouble
Once
On suspicion of
Of seaman's pocket
Whereby I was in reality the man's best friend, and tried to take care of him
With the sweat of your brow
Till it poured down like rain
Now let me be took down again
I give information that the man that done the Harmon Murder is Gaffer Hexam, the man that found the body. The hand of Jesse Hexam, commonly called Gaffer on the river and along shore, is the hand that done that deed. His hand and no other
Tell us on what grounds you make this accusation
On the grounds
that I was Gaffer's pardner, and suspected of him many a long day and many a dark night. On the grounds that I knowed his ways. On the grounds that I broke the pardnership because I see the danger; which I warn you his daughter may tell you another story about that, for anythink I can say, but you know what it'll be worth, for she'd tell you lies, the world round and the heavens broad, to save her father. On the grounds that it's well understood along the cause'ays and the stairs that he done it. On the grounds that he's fell off from, because he done it. On the grounds that I will swear he done it. On the grounds that you may take me where you will, and get me sworn to it. I don't want to back out of the consequences. I have made up MY mind. Take me anywheres
All this is nothing
Nothing
Merely nothing. It goes to no more than that you suspect this man of the crime. You may do so with some reason, or you may do so with no reason, but he cannot be convicted on your suspicion
Haven't I said -- I appeal to the T'other Governor as my witness -- haven't I said from the first minute that I opened my mouth in this here world-without-end-everlasting chair' (he evidently used that form of words as next in force to an affidavit), 'that I was willing to swear that he done it? Haven't I said, Take me and get me sworn to it? Don't I say so now? You won't deny it, Lawyer Lightwood
Surely not; but you only offer to swear to your suspicion, and I tell you it is not enough to swear to your suspicion
Not enough, ain't it, Lawyer Lightwood
Positively not
And did I say it WAS enough? Now, I appeal to the T'other Governor. Now, fair! Did I say so
He certainly has not said that he had no more to tell
whatever he seemed to imply
Hah
Go on, then
Say out what you have to say. No after-thought
Let me be took down then
Let me be took down, for by George and the Draggin I'm a coming to it now! Don't do nothing to keep back from a honest man the fruits of the sweat of his brow! I give information, then, that he told me that he done it. Is THAT enough
Take care what you say, my friend
Lawyer Lightwood, take care, you, what I say; for I judge you'll be answerable for follering it up
Where did he tell you so
Outside
What did he say
I'll tell you (take me down, T'other Governor, I ask no better). He come out first; I come out last. I might be a minute arter him; I might be half a minute, I might be a quarter of a minute; I cannot swear to that, and therefore I won't. That's knowing the obligations of a Alfred David, ain't it
Go on
I found him a waiting to speak to me. He says to me, "Rogue Riderhood"-- for that's the name I'm mostly called by -- not for any meaning in it, for meaning it has none, but because of its being similar to Roger
Never mind that
Scuse ME, Lawyer Lightwood, it's a part of the truth, and as such I do mind it, and I must mind it and I will mind it. "Rogue Riderhood," he says, "words passed betwixt us on the river tonight." Which they had; ask his daughter! "I threatened you," he says, "to chop you over the fingers with my boat's stretcher, or take a aim at your brains with my boathook. I did so on accounts of your looking too hard at what I had in tow, as if you was suspicious, and on accounts of your holding on to the gunwale of my boat." I says to him, "Gaffer, I know it." He says to me, "Rogue Riderhood, you are a man in a dozen"-- I think he said in a score, but of that I am not positive, so take the lowest figure, for precious be the obligations of a Alfred David. "And," he says, "when your fellow-men is up, be it their lives or be it their watches, sharp is ever the word with you. Had you suspicions?" I says, "Gaffer, I had; and what's more, I have." He falls a shaking, and he says, "Of what?" I says, "Of foul play." He falls a shaking worse, and he says, "There WAS foul play then. I done it for his money. Don't betray me!" Those were the words as ever he used
What more
Of him, d'ye mean, Lawyer Lightwood
Of anything to the purpose
Now, I'm blest if I understand you, Governors Both
What? Ain't THAT enough
Did you ask him how he did it, where he did it, when he did it
Far be it from me, Lawyer Lightwood! I was so troubled in my mind, that I wouldn't have knowed more, no, not for the sum as I expect to earn from you by the sweat of my brow, twice told! I had put an end to the pardnership. I had cut the connexion. I couldn't undo what was done; and when he begs and prays, "Old pardner, on my knees, don't split upon me!" I only makes answer "Never speak another word to Roger Riderhood, nor look him in the face!" and I shuns that man
You have been troubled in your mind a long time, man
Hages
When all that stir was made, when the Government reward was offered, when the police were on the alert, when the whole country rang with the crime
Hah
Warn't I troubled in my mind then
When conjecture ran wild, when the most extravagant suspicions were afloat, when half a dozen innocent people might have been laid by the heels any hour in the day
Hah
Warn't I troubled in my mind through it all
But he hadn't
the opportunity then of earning so much money, you see
The T'other Governor hits the nail, Lawyer Lightwood! It was that as turned me. I had many times and again struggled to relieve myself of the trouble on my mind, but I couldn't get it off. I had once very nigh got it off to Miss Abbey Potterson which keeps the Six Jolly Fellowships -- there is the 'ouse, it won't run away,-- there lives the lady, she ain't likely to be struck dead afore you get there -- ask her!-- but I couldn't do it. At last, out comes the new bill with your own lawful name, Lawyer Lightwood, printed to it, and then I asks the question of my own intellects, Am I to have this trouble on my mind for ever? Am I never to throw it off? Am I always to think more of Gaffer than of my own self? If he's got a daughter, ain't I got a daughter
And echo answered
You have
Incidentally mentioning, at the same time, her age
Yes, governor. Two-and-twenty last October. And then I put it to myself, "Regarding the money. It is a pot of money." For it IS a pot
and why deny it
Hear
It is a pot of money; but is it a sin for a labouring man that moistens every crust of bread he earns, with his tears -- or if not with them, with the colds he catches in his head -- is it a sin for that man to earn it? Say there is anything again earning it." This I put to myself strong, as in duty bound; "how can it be said without blaming Lawyer Lightwood for offering it to be earned?" And was it for ME to blame Lawyer Lightwood? No
No
Certainly not, Governor
I mean to have it! And now I tell you, once and away, Lawyer Lightwood, that Jesse Hexam, commonly called Gaffer, his hand and no other, done the deed, on his own confession to me. And I give him up to you, and I want him took. This night
I suppose I must go with this fellow to our imperturbable friend at the police-station
I suppose
there is no help for it
Do you believe him
I believe him to be a thorough rascal. But he may tell the truth, for his own purpose, and for this occasion only
It doesn't look like it
HE doesn't
But neither is his late partner, whom he denounces, a prepossessing person. The firm are cut-throat Shepherds both, in appearance. I should like to ask him one thing
You mentioned (twice, I think) a daughter of this Hexam's
You don't mean to imply that she had any guilty knowledge of the crime
No, I don't
And you implicate no other person
It ain't what I implicate, it's what Gaffer implicated
I don't pretend to know more than that his words to me was, "I done it." Those was his words
I must see this out, Mortimer
How shall we go
Let us walk
and give this fellow time to think of it
Now, if you will take the lead
Mr Wrayburn and I will follow. You know where to go, I suppose
I suppose I do, Lawyer Lightwood
Take the lead, then
Look at his hang-dog air
It strikes me rather as a hang-MAN air
He has undeniable intentions that way
If he has had time to think of it
Look round here, Lawyer Lightwood, at them red curtains. It's the Fellowships, the 'ouse as I told you wouldn't run away. And has it run away
I wished you to see the Fellowships for yourself, Lawyer Lightwood, that you might judge whether I'm a liar; and now I'll see Gaffer's window for myself, that we may know whether he's at home
He'll come back, I suppose
Ay! and go through with it
Gaffer's out, and his boat's out. His daughter's at home, sitting a- looking at the fire. But there's some supper getting ready, so Gaffer's expected. I can find what move he's upon, easy enough, presently
What have YOU been up to, last
Does either of you two gentlemen happen to have a pinch of snuff about him
Have you heard these read
No
Then you had better hear them
Are these notes correct, now, as to the information you bring here and the evidence you mean to give
They are. They are as correct
as I am. I can't say more than that for 'em
I'll take this man myself, sir
Is he at home? Where is he? What's he doing? You have made it your business to know all ahout him, no doubt
Stop
not till I tell you: We mustn't look like business. Would you two gentlemen object to making a pretence of taking a glass of something in my company at the Fellowships? Well-conducted house, and highly respectable landlady
Very good
Reserve
You know where to find me
Riderhood, when you have found out concerning his coming home, come round to the window of Cosy, tap twice at it, and wait for me. Now, gentlemen
in it
And I think
that if all goes well with him, he's in a tolerable way of getting it. But as this is the Fellowships, gentlemen, where the lights are, I recommend dropping the subject. You can't do better than be interested in some lime works anywhere down about Northfleet, and doubtful whether some of your lime don't get into bad company as it comes up in barges
You hear Eugene
You are deeply interested in lime
Without lime
my existence would be unilluminated by a ray of hope
They burn sherry very well here
Perhaps you gentlemen might like a bottle
It's a certain fact
that this man we have received our information from
has for some time past given the other man a bad name arising out of your lime barges, and that the other man has been avoided in consequence. I don't say what it means or proves, but it's a certain fact. I had it first from one of the opposite sex of my acquaintance
down away at a distance, over yonder
Well you see
it was a question of making a move. It's of no use moving if you don't know what your move is. You had better by far keep still. In the matter of this lime, I certainly had an idea that it might lie betwixt the two men; I always had that idea. Still I was forced to wait for a start, and I wasn't so lucky as to get a start. This man that we have received our information from, has got a start, and if he don't meet with a check he may make the running and come in first. There may turn out to be something considerable for him that comes in second, and I don't mention who may or who may not try for that place. There's duty to do, and I shall do it, under any circumstances; to the best of my judgment and ability
Speaking as a shipper of lime
Which no man has a better right to do than yourself, you know
I hope not
my father having been a shipper of lime before me, and my grandfather before him -- in fact we having been a family immersed to the crowns of our heads in lime during several generations -- I beg to observe that if this missing lime could be got hold of without any young female relative of any distinguished gentleman engaged in the lime trade (which I cherish next to my life) being present, I think it might be a more agreeable proceeding to the assisting bystanders, that is to say, lime-burners
I also
should much prefer that
It shall be done, gentlemen, if it can be done conveniently
There is no wish on my part to cause any distress in that quarter. Indeed, I am sorry for that quarter
There was a boy in that quarter
He is still there
No
Will she be left alone then
She will be left
alone
The lime trade
This is becoming grim, Mortimer
I don't like this
Nor I' said Lightwood. 'Shall we go
Being here, let us stay. You ought to see it out, and I won't leave you. Besides, that lonely girl with the dark hair runs in my head. It was little more than a glimpse we had of her that last time, and yet I almost see her waiting by the fire to-night. Do you feel like a dark combination of traitor and pickpocket when you think of that girl
Rather
Do you
Very much so
Father, was that you calling me
Father
Father! I thought I heard you call me twice before
If the real man feels as guilty as I do
he is remarkably uncomfortable
Influence of secrecy
I am not at all obliged to it for making me Guy Fawkes in the vault and a Sneak in the area both at once
Give me some more of that stuff
Pooh
Tastes like the wash of the river
Are you so familiar with the flavour of the wash of the river
I seem to be to-night. I feel as if I had been half drowned, and swallowing a gallon of it
Influence of locality
You are mighty learned to-night, you and your influences
How long shall we stay here
How long do you think
If I could choose, I should say a minute
for the Jolly Fellowship Porters are not the jolliest dogs I have known. But I suppose we are best here until they turn us out with the other suspicious characters, at midnight
Invisible insects of diabolical activity swarm in this place. I am tickled and twitched all over. Mentally, I have now committed a burglary under the meanest circumstances, and the myrmidons of justice are at my heels
I am quite as bad
This restlessness began with me, long ago. All the time you were out, I felt like Gulliver with the Lilliputians firing upon him
It won't do, Mortimer. We must get into the air; we must join our dear friend and brother, Riderhood. And let us tranquillize ourselves by making a compact. Next time (with a view to our peace of mind) we'll commit the crime, instead of taking the criminal. You swear it
Certainly
Sworn! Let Tippins look to it. Her life's in danger
Thankee sir, no sir
I've a good sitiwation here, sir
If you change your mind at any time
come to me at my works, and you'll always find an opening in the lime- kiln
Thankee sir
This is my partner
who keeps the books and attends to the wages. A fair day's wages for a fair day's work is ever my partner's motto
un it is, gentlemen
Eugene
how CAN you be so ridiculous
I am in a ridiculous humour
I am a ridiculous fellow. Everything is ridiculous. Come along
There's where she sits, you see
There's the light of her fire
I'll take a peep through the window
No, don't
Best, not make a show of her. Come to our honest friend
Mr Inspector at home
Here I am, sir
And our friend of the perspiring brow is at the far corner there? Good. Anything happened
His daughter has been out, thinking she heard him calling, unless it was a sign to him to keep out of the way. It might have been
It might have been Rule Britannia
but it wasn't. Mortimer
Here
Two burglaries now, and a forgery
But it will be light at five
and then WE shall be seen
Look here
what do you say to this? He may have been lurking in and out, and just holding his own betwixt two or three bridges, for hours back
What do you make of that
He may be doing so at this present time
What do you make of that
My boat's among them boats here at the cause'ay
And what do you make of your boat
What if I put off in her and take a look round? I know his ways, and the likely nooks he favours. I know where he'd be at such a time of the tide, and where he'd be at such another time. Ain't I been his pardner? None of you need show. None of you need stir. I can shove her off without help; and as to me being seen, I'm about at all times
You might have given a worse opinion
Try it
Stop a bit. Let's work it out. If I want you, I'll drop round under the Fellowships and tip you a whistle
If I might so far presume as to offer a suggestion to my honourable and gallant friend, whose knowledge of naval matters far be it from me to impeach
it would be, that to tip a whistle is to advertise mystery and invite speculation. My honourable and gallant friend will, I trust, excuse me, as an independent member, for throwing out a remark which I feel to be due to this house and the country
Was that the T'other Governor, or Lawyer Lightwood
In reply to the question put by my honourable and gallant friend
I can have no hesitation in replying (it not being inconsistent with the public service) that those accents were the accents of the T'other Governor
You've tolerable good eyes, ain't you, Governor? You've all tolerable good eyes, ain't you
Then if I row up under the Fellowship and lay there, no need to whistle. You'll make out that there's a speck of something or another there, and you'll know it's me, and you'll come down that cause'ay to me. Understood all
Off she goes then
I wish the boat of my honourable and gallant friend
may be endowed with philanthropy enough to turn bottom-upward and extinguish him!-- Mortimer
My honourable friend
Three burglaries, two forgeries, and a midnight assassination
Blest if I can make it out
Make what out? Have you seen him
No
What HAVE you seen
I've seen his boat
Not empty
Yes, empty. And what's more,-- adrift. And what's more,-- with one scull gone. And what's more,-- with t'other scull jammed in the thowels and broke short off. And what's more,-- the boat's drove tight by the tide 'atwixt two tiers of barges. And what's more,-- he's in luck again, by George if he ain't
Gaffer's boat, Gaffer in luck again, and yet no Gaffer
If it was me that had the law of this here job in hand
blest if I wouldn't lay hold of HER, at any rate
Ay, but it is not you
Well, well, well, t'other governor, I didn't say it was. A man may speak
And vermin may be silent
Hold your tongue, you water-rat
What can have become of this man
Can't imagine. Unless he dived overboard
Did you make his boat fast
She's fast enough till the tide runs back. I couldn't make her faster than she is. Come aboard of mine, and see for your own-selves
that he had had half a dozen, dead and alive, in her afore now, and she was nothing deep in the water nor down in the stern even then, to speak of
All right. Give way
Give way, by George
If he's gone and made off any how Lawyer Lightwood, it's enough to make me give way in a different manner. But he always WAS a cheat, con-found him! He always was a infernal cheat, was Gaffer. Nothing straightfor'ard, nothing on the square. So mean, so underhanded. Never going through with a thing, nor carrying it out like a man
Hallo! Steady
I wish the boat of my honourable and gallant friend may be endowed with philanthropy enough not to turn bottom-upward and extinguish us!) Steady, steady! Sit close, Mortimer. Here's the hail again. See how it flies, like a troop of wild cats, at Mr Riderhood's eyes
looked
like inscriptions over the graves of dead businesses
That's to drown YOU in, my dears
Now tell me I'm a liar
With a morbid expectation
that somebody is always going to tell him the truth
This is Hexam's boat
I know her well
Look at the broken scull. Look at the t'other scull gone. NOW tell me I am a liar
And see now
Didn't I tell you he was in luck again
Haul in
Easy to say haul in
Not so easy done. His luck's got fouled under the keels of the barges. I tried to haul in last time, but I couldn't. See how taut the line is
I must have it up
I am going to take this boat ashore, and his luck along with it. Try easy now
I mean to have it, and the boat too
Take care
You'll disfigure. Or pull asunder perhaps
I am not going to do either, not even to your Grandmother
but I mean to have it. Come
it's no good this sort of game, you know. You MUST come up. I mean to have you
I told you so
Come
ease her a little for'ard
now ease her a trifle aft
All clear
Hand me over those spare sculls of yours, and I'll pull this in to the nearest stairs. Go ahead you, and keep out in pretty open water, that I mayn't get fouled again
Now
you have had more practice in this than I have had, and ought to be a better workman at it. Undo the tow- rope, and we'll help you haul in
By the Lord, he's done me
What do you mean
Gaffer's done me. It's Gaffer
Now see
the way of it was this. Of course you gentlemen hardly failed to observe that he was towing by the neck and arms
Likewise you will have observed how he had run the other end of this rope to his boat
Now see
see how it works round upon him. It's a wild tempestuous evening when this man that was
there! Now he's more like himself; though he's badly bruised,-- when this man that was, rows out upon the river on his usual lay. He carries with him this coil of rope. He always carries with him this coil of rope. It's as well known to me as he was himself. Sometimes it lay in the bottom of his boat. Sometimes he hung it loose round his neck. He was a light-dresser was this man;-- you see
and when it was wet, or freezing, or blew cold, he would hang this coil of line round his neck. Last evening he does this. Worse for him! He dodges about in his boat, does this man, till he gets chilled. His hands
get numbed. He sees some object that's in his way of business, floating. He makes ready to secure that object. He unwinds the end of his coil that he wants to take some turns on in his boat, and he takes turns enough on it to secure that it shan't run out. He makes it too secure, as it happens. He is a little longer about this than usual, his hands being numbed. His object drifts up, before he is quite ready for it. He catches at it, thinks he'll make sure of the contents of the pockets anyhow, in case he should be parted from it, bends right over the stern, and in one of these heavy squalls, or in the cross-swell of two steamers, or in not being quite prepared, or through all or most or some, gets a lurch, overbalances and goes head-foremost overboard. Now see! He can swim, can this man, and instantly he strikes out. But in such striking-out he tangles his arms, pulls strong on the slip-knot, and it runs home. The object he had expected to take in tow, floats by, and his own boat tows him dead, to where we found him, all entangled in his own line. You'll ask me how I make out about the pockets? First, I'll tell you more; there was silver in 'em. How do I make that out? Simple and satisfactory. Because he's got it here
What is to be done with the remains
If you wouldn't object to standing by him half a minute, sir
I'll find the nearest of our men to come and take charge of him;-- I still call it HIM, you see
Eugene
we may wait at a little distance
Eugene! Holloa
Singular and entertaining combination, sir, your friend
I wish it had not been a part of his singular entertaining combination to give me the slip under these dreary circumstances at this time of the morning
Can we get anything hot to drink
Here just before us, you see
I see
And had hot brandy and water too, you see
and then cut off at a great rate
Who
Your friend, you know
I know
Why what bloodshot, draggled, dishevelled spectacle is this
Are my feathers so very much rumpled
Such a night
What became of you in the morning
My dear fellow
I felt that we had bored one another so long, that an unbroken continuance of those relations must inevitably terminate in our flying to opposite points of the earth. I also felt that I had committed every crime in the Newgate Calendar. So, for mingled considerations of friendship and felony, I took a walk
Who's that, I wonder
Mr Rokesmith
Oh
Oh indeed! Our and the Wilfers' Mutual Friend, my dear. Yes. Ask him to come in
Sit down, sir
Mrs Boffin you're already acquainted with. Well, sir, I am rather unprepared to see you, for, to tell you the truth, I've been so busy with one thing and another, that I've not had time to turn your offer over
That's apology for both of us: for Mr Boffin, and for me as well
But Lor! we can talk it over now; can't us
Let me see then
It was Secretary that you named; wasn't it
I said Secretary
It rather puzzled me at the time
and it rather puzzled me and Mrs Boffin when we spoke of it afterwards, because (not to make a mystery of our belief) we have always believed a Secretary to be a piece of furniture, mostly of mahogany, lined with green baize or leather, with a lot of little drawers in it. Now, you won't think I take a liberty when I mention that you certainly ain't THAT
Why, as to Steward, you see
the odds are that Mrs Boffin and me may never go upon the water. Being both bad sailors, we should want a Steward if we did; but there's generally one provided
Now, for instance -- come
If you entered my employment, what would you do
I would keep exact accounts of all the expenditure you sanctioned, Mr Boffin. I would write your letters, under your direction. I would transact your business with people in your pay or employment. I would
arrange your papers
And so arrange them as to have them always in order for immediate reference, with a note of the contents of each outside it
I tell you what
if you'll turn to at these present papers, and see what you can make of 'em, I shall know better what I can make of you
Good
Very good! Now let us hear what they're all about; will you be so good
Apple-pie order
And whatever you do with your ink, I can't think, for you're as clean as a whistle after it. Now, as to a letter. Let's
let's try a letter next
To whom shall it be addressed, Mr Boffin
Anyone. Yourself
Mr Boffin presents his compliments to Mr John Rokesmith, and begs to say that he has decided on giving Mr John Rokesmith a trial in the capacity he desires to fill. Mr Boffin takes Mr John Rokesmith at his word, in postponing to some indefinite period, the consideration of salary. It is quite understood that Mr Boffin is in no way committed on that point. Mr Boffin has merely to add, that he relies on Mr John Rokesmith's assurance that he will be faithful and serviceable. Mr John Rokesmith will please enter on his duties immediately
Well! Now, Noddy
That IS a good one
And I tell you, my deary
that if you don't close with Mr Rokesmith now at once, and if you ever go a muddling yourself again with things never meant nor made for you, you'll have an apoplexy -- besides iron-moulding your linen -- and you'll break my heart
Now
you must be let a little more into our affairs, Rokesmith. I mentioned to you, when I made your acquaintance, or I might better say when you made mine, that Mrs Boffin's inclinations was setting in the way of Fashion, but that I didn't know how fashionable we might or might not grow. Well! Mrs Boffin has carried the day, and we're going in neck and crop for Fashion
I rather inferred that, sir
from the scale on which your new establishment is to be maintained
Yes
it's to be a Spanker. The fact is, my literary man named to me that a house with which he is, as I may say, connected -- in which he has an interest
As property
Why no
not exactly that; a sort of a family tie
Association
Ah
Perhaps. Anyhow, he named to me that the house had a board up, "This Eminently Aristocratic Mansion to be let or sold." Me and Mrs Boffin went to look at it, and finding it beyond a doubt Eminently Aristocratic (though a trifle high and dull, which after all may be part of the same thing) took it. My literary man was so friendly as to drop into a charming piece of poetry on that occasion, in which he complimented Mrs Boffin on coming into possession of -- how did it go, my dear
The gay, the gay and festive scene, The halls, the halls of dazzling light
I'll tell thee how the maiden wept, Mrs Boffin, When her true love was slain ma'am, And how her broken spirit slept, Mrs Boffin, And never woke again ma'am. I'll tell thee (if agreeable to Mr Boffin) how the steed drew nigh, And left his lord afar; And if my tale (which I hope Mr Boffin might excuse) should make you sigh, I'll strike the light guitar
Correct to the letter
And I consider that the poetry brings us both in, in a beautiful manner
Now, you see, Rokesmith
a literary man -- WITH a wooden leg -- is liable to jealousy. I shall therefore cast about for comfortable ways and means of not calling up Wegg's jealousy, but of keeping you in your department, and keeping him in his
Lor
What I say is, the world's wide enough for all of us
So it is, my dear
when not literary. But when so, not so. And I am bound to bear in mind that I took Wegg on, at a time when I had no thought of being fashionable or of leaving the Bower. To let him feel himself anyways slighted now, would be to be guilty of a meanness, and to act like having one's head turned by the halls of dazzling light. Which Lord forbid! Rokesmith, what shall we say about your living in the house
In this house
No, no. I have got other plans for this house. In the new house
That will be as you please, Mr Boffin. I hold myself quite at your disposal. You know where I live at present
Well
suppose you keep as you are for the present, and we'll decide by-and-by. You'll begin to take charge at once, of all that's going on in the new house, will you
Most willingly. I will begin this very day. Will you give me the address
I like him
I will see directly that everything is in train, Mr Boffin
Thank'ee. Being here, would you care at all to look round the Bower
I should greatly like it. I have heard so much of its story
Come
The room was kept like this, Rokesmith
against the son's return. In short, everything in the house was kept exactly as it came to us, for him to see and approve. Even now, nothing is changed but our own room below-stairs that you have just left. When the son came home for the last time in his life, and for the last time in his life saw his father, it was most likely in this room that they met
Another staircase
leading down into the yard. We'll go down this way, as you may like to see the yard, and it's all in the road. When the son was a little child, it was up and down these stairs that he mostly came and went to his father. He was very timid of his father. I've seen him sit on these stairs, in his shy way, poor child, many a time. Mr and Mrs Boffin have comforted him, sitting with his little book on these stairs, often
Ah! And his poor sister too
And here's the sunny place on the white wall where they one day measured one another. Their own little hands wrote up their names here, only with a pencil; but the names are here still, and the poor dears gone for ever
We must take care of the names, old lady
We must take care of the names. They shan't be rubbed out in our time, nor yet, if we can help it, in the time after us. Poor little children
Ah, poor little children
It would have been enough for us
in case it had pleased God to spare the last of those two young lives and sorrowful deaths. We didn't want the rest
You have no instructions to give me, Mr Boffin, in reference to this place
Not any, Rokesmith. No
Might I ask, without seeming impertinent, whether you have any intention of selling it
Certainly not. In remembrance of our old master, our old master's children, and our old service, me and Mrs Boffin mean to keep it up as it stands
Ay, ay, that's another thing. I may sell THEM, though I should be sorry to see the neighbourhood deprived of 'em too. It'll look but a poor dead flat without the Mounds. Still I don't say that I'm going to keep 'em always there, for the sake of the beauty of the landscape. There's no hurry about it; that's all I say at present. I ain't a scholar in much, Rokesmith, but I'm a pretty fair scholar in dust. I can price the Mounds to a fraction, and I know how they can be best disposed of; and likewise that they take no harm by standing where they do. You'll look in to-morrow, will you be so kind
Every day. And the sooner I can get you into your new house, complete, the better you will be pleased, sir
Well, it ain't that I'm in a mortal hurry
only when you DO pay people for looking alive, it's as well to know that they ARE looking alive. Ain't that your opinion
Quite
Now
if I can make it comfortable with Wegg, my affairs will be going smooth
And now, Mr Boffin, sir, we'll decline and we'll fall
You remember, Wegg, when I first told you that I wanted to make a sort of offer to you
Let me get on my considering cap, sir
When you first told me that you wanted to make a sort of offer to me? Now let me think
Yes, to be sure I do, Mr Boffin. It was at my corner. To be sure it was! You had first asked me whether I liked your name, and Candour had compelled a reply in the negative case. I little thought then, sir, how familiar that name would come to be
I hope it will be more familiar still, Wegg
Do you, Mr Boffin? Much obliged to you, I'm sure. Is it your pleasure, sir, that we decline and we fall
Not just yet awhile, Wegg. In fact, I have got another offer to make you
And I hope you'll like it, Wegg
Thank you, sir
I hope it may prove so. On all accounts, I am sure
What do you think
of not keeping a stall, Wegg
I think, sir
that I should like to be shown the gentleman prepared to make it worth my while
Here he is
behold myself on a similar footing
Now, Wegg, Wegg, Wegg
You are too sensitive
I know I am, sir
I am acquainted with my faults. I always was, from a child, too sensitive
But listen
hear me out, Wegg. You have taken it into your head that I mean to pension you off
True, sir
I am acquainted with my faults. Far be it from me to deny them. I HAVE taken it into my head
But I DON'T mean it
Don't you, indeed, sir
No
because that would express, as I understand it, that you were not going to do anything to deserve your money. But you are; you are
That, sir
Thank'ee, Wegg, both for your confidence in me and for your frequent dropping into poetry; both of which is friendly. Well, then; my idea is, that you should give up your stall, and that I should put you into the Bower here, to keep it for us. It's a pleasant spot; and a man with coals and candles and a pound a week might be in clover here
Hem! Would that man, sir -- we will say that man, for the purposes of argueyment
would that man, sir, be expected to throw any other capacity in, or would any other capacity be considered extra? Now let us (for the purposes of argueyment) suppose that man to be engaged as a reader: say (for the purposes of argunyment) in the evening. Would that man's pay as a reader in the evening, be added to the other amount, which, adopting your language, we will call clover; or would it merge into that amount, or clover
Well
I suppose it would be added
I suppose it would, sir. You are right, sir. Exactly my own views, Mr Boffin
Mr Boffin, consider it done. Say no more, sir, not a word more. My stall and I are for ever parted. The collection of ballads will in future be reserved for private study, with the object of making poetry tributary
What's the matter, my dear
I don't know; I don't know; but I wish you'd come up-stairs
What is it, my dear? Why, you're frightened! YOU frightened
I am not one of that sort certainly
but it's very strange
What is, my dear
Noddy, the faces of the old man and the two children are all over the house to-night
My dear
I know it must sound foolish, and yet it is so
Where did you think you saw them
I don't know that I think I saw them anywhere. I felt them
Touched them
No. Felt them in the air. I was sorting those things on the chest, and not thinking of the old man or the children, but singing to myself, when all in a moment I felt there was a face growing out of the dark
What face
For a moment it was the old man's, and then it got younger. For a moment it was both the children's, and then it got older. For a moment it was a strange face, and then it was all the faces
And then it was gone
Yes; and then it was gone
Where were you then, old lady
Here, at the chest. Well; I got the better of it, and went on sorting, and went on singing to myself. "Lor!" I says, "I'll think of something else -- something comfortable -- and put it out of my head." So I thought of the new house and Miss Bella Wilfer, and was thinking at a great rate with that sheet there in my hand, when all of a sudden, the faces seemed to be hidden in among the folds of it and I let it drop
And then you ran down stairs
No. I thought I'd try another room, and shake it off. I says to myself, "I'll go and walk slowly up and down the old man's room three times, from end to end, and then I shall have conquered it." I went in with the candle in my hand; but the moment I came near the bed, the air got thick with them
With the faces
Yes, and I even felt that they were in the dark behind the side- door, and on the little staircase, floating away into the yard. Then, I called you
I think, my dear
I'll at once get rid of Wegg for the night, because he's coming to inhabit the Bower, and it might be put into his head or somebody else's, if he heard this and it got about that the house is haunted. Whereas we know better. Don't we
I never had the feeling in the house before
and I have been about it alone at all hours of the night. I have been in the house when Death was in it, and I have been in the house when Murder was a new part of its adventures, and I never had a fright in it yet
And won't again, my dear
Depend upon it, it comes of thinking and dwelling on that dark spot
Yes; but why didn't it come before
That was the treatment, you see. Completely worked round, haven't you
Yes, deary
I'm not nervous any more. I'm not a bit troubled now. I'd go anywhere about the house the same as ever. But
Eh
But I've only to shut my eyes
And what then
Why then
then, there they are! The old man's face, and it gets younger. The two children's faces, and they get older. A face that I don't know. And then all the faces
It is so
I would rather not
I don't know him
Not more than other men
No. But while I am in your employment, sir, I would rather he excused from going between the lawyer and the client. Of course if you press it, Mr Boffin, I am ready to comply. But I should take it as a great favour if you would not press it without urgent occasion
Does your objection go to writing to Lightwood, Rokesmith
Not in the least, sir
Then perhaps you'll write him a line, and say he is free to do what he likes. I don't think it promises
I don't think it promises
Still, he may do what he likes
I will write immediately. Let me thank you for so considerately yielding to my disinclination. It may seem less unreasonable, if I avow to you that although I don't know Mr Lightwood, I have a disagreeable association connected with him. It is not his fault; he is not at all to blame for it, and does not even know my name
I don't think it promises
Yes sure
Mrs Milvey had the kindness to write to me, ma'am, and I got Sloppy to read it. It was a pretty letter. But she's an affable lady
For I aint, you must know
much of a hand at reading writing-hand, though I can read my Bible and most print. And I do love a newspaper. You mightn't think it, but Sloppy is a beautiful reader of a newspaper. He do the Police in different voices
The gentlefolks can't hear themselves speak, Sloppy. Bide a bit, bide a bit
Is that the dear child in your lap
Yes, ma'am, this is Johnny
Johnny, too
already Johnny! Only one of the two names left to give him! He's a pretty boy
Yes, ma'am, he's a pretty boy, he's a dear darling boy, he's the child of my own last left daughter's daughter. But she's gone the way of all the rest
Those are not his brother and sister
Oh, dear no, ma'am. Those are Minders
Minders
Left to he Minded, sir. I keep a Minding-School. I can take only three, on account of the Mangle. But I love children, and Four- pence a week is Four-pence. Come here, Toddles and Poddles
Go to your seats Toddles and Poddles
And Master -- or Mister -- Sloppy
A love-child
parents never known; found in the street. He was brought up in the --' with a shiver of repugnance
The Poor-house
You dislike the mention of it
Dislike the mention of it
Kill me sooner than take me there. Throw this pretty child under cart- horses feet and a loaded waggon, sooner than take him there. Come to us and find us all a-dying, and set a light to us all where we lie and let us all blaze away with the house into a heap of cinders sooner than move a corpse of us there
Do I never read in the newspapers
God help me and the like of me!-- how the worn-out people that do come down to that, get driven from post to pillar and pillar to post, a-purpose to tire them out! Do I never read how they are put off, put off, put off -- how they are grudged, grudged, grudged, the shelter, or the doctor, or the drop of physic, or the bit of bread? Do I never read how they grow heartsick of it and give it up, after having let themsleves drop so low, and how they after all die out for want of help? Then I say, I hope I can die as well as another, and I'll die without that disgrace
Johnny, my pretty
your old Granny Betty is nigher fourscore year than threescore and ten. She never begged nor had a penny of the Union money in all her life. She paid scot and she paid lot when she had money to pay; she worked when she could, and she starved when she must. You pray that your Granny may have strength enough left her at the last (she's strong for an old one, Johnny), to get up from her bed and run and hide herself and swown to death in a hole, sooner than fall into the hands of those Cruel Jacks we read of that dodge and drive, and worry and weary, and scorn and shame, the decent poor
And does he work for you
Yes
And well too
Does he live here
He lives more here than anywhere. He was thought to be no better than a Natural, and first come to me as a Minder. I made interest with Mr Blogg the Beadle to have him as a Minder, seeing him by chance up at church, and thinking I might do something with him. For he was a weak ricketty creetur then
Is he called by his right name
Why, you see, speaking quite correctly, he has no right name. I always understood he took his name from being found on a Sloppy night
He seems an amiable fellow
Bless you, sir, there's not a bit of him
that's not amiable. So you may judge how amiable he is, by running your eye along his heighth
And now
concerning Johnny
Yes, ma'am. Concerning Johnny
If you trust the dear child to me
he shall have the best of homes, the best of care, the best of education, the best of friends. Please God I will be a true good mother to him
I am thankful to you, ma'am, and the dear child would be thankful if he was old enough to understand
I wouldn't stand in the dear child's light, not if I had all my life before me instead of a very little of it. But I hope you won't take it ill that I cleave to the child closer than words can tell, for he's the last living thing left me
Take it ill, my dear soul? Is it likely? And you so tender of him as to bring him home here
I have seen
so many of them on my lap. And they are all gone but this one! I am ashamed to seem so selfish, but I don't really mean it. It'll be the making of his fortune, and he'll be a gentleman when I am dead. I -- I -- don't know what comes over me. I -- try against it. Don't notice me
There, there, there
Nothing is going to be done. Nobody need be frightened. We're all comfortable; ain't we, Mrs Higden
Sure and certain we are
And there really is no hurry, you know
Take time to think of it, my good creature
Don't you fear ME no more, ma'am
I thought of it for good yesterday. I don't know what come over me just now, but it'll never come again
Well, then, Johnny shall have more time to think of it
the pretty child shall have time to get used to it. And you'll get him more used to it, if you think well of it; won't you
Lor
we want to make everybody happy, not dismal!-- And perhaps you wouldn't mind letting me know how used to it you begin to get, and how it all goes on
I'll send Sloppy
And this gentleman who has come with me will pay him for his trouble
And Mr Sloppy, whenever you come to my house, be sure you never go away without having had a good dinner of meat, beer, vegetables, and pudding
You must tell me what I can do for you, Betty my friend
if not to-day, next time
Thank you all the same, ma'am, but I want nothing for myself. I can work. I'm strong. I can walk twenty mile if I'm put to it
Yes, but there are some little comforts that you wouldn't be the worse for
Bless ye, I wasn't born a lady any more than you
It seems to me
that you were born a lady, and a true one, or there never was a lady born. But I couldn't take anything from you, my dear. I never did take anything from any one. It ain't that I'm not grateful, but I love to earn it better
Well, well
I only spoke of little things, or I wouldn't have taken the liberty
If I could have kept the dear child, without the dread that's always upon me of his coming to that fate I have spoken of, I could never have parted with him, even to you. For I love him, I love him, I love him! I love my husband long dead and gone, in him; I love my children dead and gone, in him; I love my young and hopeful days dead and gone, in him. I couldn't sell that love, and look you in your bright kind face. It's a free gift. I am in want of nothing. When my strength fails me, if I can but die out quick and quiet, I shall be quite content. I have stood between my dead and that shame I have spoken of; and it has been kept off from every one of them. Sewed into my gown
is just enough to lay me in the grave. Only see that it's rightly spent, so as I may rest free to the last from that cruelty and disgrace, and you'll have done much more than a little thing for me, and all that in this present world my heart is set upon
Eh
Oh! It's you
Only I. A fine evening
Is it
I suppose it is, now you mention it. I have not been thinking of the evening
So intent upon your book
Ye-e-es
A love story, Miss Wilfer
Oh dear no, or I shouldn't be reading it. It's more about money than anything else
And does it say that money is better than anything
Upon my word
I forget what it says, but you can find out for yourself if you like, Mr Rokesmith. I don't want it any more
I am charged with a message for you, Miss Wilfer
Impossible, I think
From Mrs Boffin. She desired me to assure you of the pleasure she has in finding that she will be ready to receive you in another week or two at furthest
How did YOU come by the message, pray
I have been waiting for an opportunity of telling you that I am Mr Boffin's Secretary
I am as wise as ever
for I don't know what a Secretary is. Not that it signifies
Not at all
Then are you going to be always there, Mr Rokesmith
Always? No. Very much there? Yes
Dear me
But my position there as Secretary, will be very different from yours as guest. You will know little or nothing about me. I shall transact the business: you will transact the pleasure. I shall have my salary to earn; you will have nothing to do but to enjoy and attract
Attract, sir
I don't understand you
Excuse me; when I first saw you in your black dress
There
What did I say to them at home? Everybody noticed that ridiculous mourning
When I first saw you in your black dress, I was at a loss to account for that distinction between yourself and your family. I hope it was not impertinent to speculate upon it
I hope not, I am sure
But you ought to know best how you speculated upon it
Since I have been entrusted with Mr Boffin's affairs, I have necessarily come to understand the little mystery. I venture to remark that I feel persuaded that much of your loss may be repaired. I speak, of course, merely of wealth, Miss Wilfer. The loss of a perfect stranger, whose worth, or worthlessness, I cannot estimate -- nor you either -- is beside the question. But this excellent gentleman and lady are so full of simplicity, so full of generosity, so inclined towards you, and so desirous to -- how shall I express it?-- to make amends for their good fortune, that you have only to respond
As we have been brought under one roof by an accidental combination of circumstances, which oddly extends itself to the new relations before us, I have taken the liberty of saying these few words. You don't consider them intrusive I hope
Really, Mr Rokesmith, I can't say what I consider them
They are perfectly new to me, and may be founded altogether on your own imagination
You will see
I have been telling Miss Wilfer
that I have become, by a curious chance, Mr Boffin's Secretary or man of business
I have not
the honour of any intimate acquaintance with Mr Boffin, and it is not for me to congratulate that gentleman on the acquisition he has made
A poor one enough
Pardon me
the merits of Mr Boffin may be highly distinguished -- may be more distinguished than the countenance of Mrs Boffin would imply -- but it were the insanity of humility to deem him worthy of a better assistant
You are very good. I have also been telling Miss Wilfer that she is expected very shortly at the new residence in town
Having tacitly consented
to my child's acceptance of the proffered attentions of Mrs Boffin, I interpose no objection
Don't talk nonsense, ma, please
Peace
No, ma, I am not going to be made so absurd. Interposing objections
I say
that I am NOT going to interpose objections. If Mrs Boffin (to whose countenance no disciple of Lavater could possibly for a single moment subscribe
seeks to illuminate her new residence in town with the attractions of a child of mine, I am content that she should be favoured by the company of a child of mine
You use the word, ma'am, I have myself used
when you speak of Miss Wilfer's attractions there
Pardon me
but I had not finished
Pray excuse me
I was about to say
that when I use the term attractions, I do so with the qualification that I do not mean it in any way whatever
Quite enough about this, I am sure, on all sides. Have the goodness, Mr Rokesmith, to give my love to Mrs Boffin
Pardon me
Compliments
Love
No
Compliments
Say Miss Wilfer's love, and Mrs Wilfer's compliments
And I shall be very glad to come when she is ready for me. The sooner, the better
One last word, Bella
before descending to the family apartment. I trust that as a child of mine you will ever be sensible that it will be graceful in you, when associating with Mr and Mrs Boffin upon equal terms, to remember that the Secretary, Mr Rokesmith, as your father's lodger, has a claim on your good word
So insolent, so trivial, so capricious, so mercenary, so careless, so hard to touch, so hard to turn
And yet so pretty, so pretty
And if she knew
Supposing I was to be favoured with an order from Mr Boffin, my dear friend, it would be worth my while
Nicodemus Boffin, Esquire. My Dear Sir,-- Having consented to preside at the forthcoming Annual Dinner of the Family Party Fund, and feeling deeply impressed with the immense usefulness of that noble Institution and the great importance of its being supported by a List of Stewards that shall prove to the public the interest taken in it by popular and distinguished men, I have undertaken to ask you to become a Steward on that occasion. Soliciting your favourable reply before the14 th instant, I am, My Dear Sir, Your faithful Servant, LINSEED. P.S. The Steward's fee is limited to three Guineas
Write immediately to Nicodemus Boffin, Esquire
cold in death
So you want to go and see your sister, Hexam
If you please, Mr Headstone
I have half a mind to go with you. Where does your sister live
Why, she is not settled yet, Mr Headstone. I'd rather you didn't see her till she is settled, if it was all the same to you
Look here, Hexam
I hope your sister may be good company for you
Why do you doubt it, Mr Headstone
I did not say I doubted it
No, sir; you didn't say so
You see, Hexam, you will be one of us. In good time you are sure to pass a creditable examination and become one of us. Then the question is
The question is, sir
Whether you had not better leave well alone
Is it well to leave my sister alone, Mr Headstone
I do not say so, because I do not know. I put it to you. I ask you to think of it. I want you to consider. You know how well you are doing here
After all, she got me here
Perceiving the necessity of it
and making up her mind fully to the separation. Yes
I wish you'd come with me and see her, Mr Headstone, though she is not settled. I wish you'd come with me, and take her in the rough, and judge her for yourself
You are sure you would not like
to prepare her
My sister Lizzie
wants no preparing, Mr Headstone. What she is, she is, and shows herself to be. There's no pretending about my sister
Well, I can spare the evening
I am ready to walk with you
Thank you, Mr Headstone. And I am ready to go
A fine evening, Miss Peecher
A very fine evening, Mr Headstone
Are you taking a walk
Hexam and I are going to take a long walk
Charming weather
Ours is rather on business than mere pleasure
Good-night, Miss Peecher
Good-night, Mr Headstone
Well, Mary Anne
If you please, ma'am, Hexam said they were going to see his sister
But that can't be, I think
because Mr Headstone can have no business with HER
Well, Mary Anne
If you please, ma'am, perhaps it's Hexam's business
That may be
I didn't think of that. Not that it matters at all
Well, Mary Anne
They say she's very handsome
Oh, Mary Anne, Mary Anne
how often have I told you not to use that vague expression, not to speak in that general way? When you say THEY say, what do you mean? Part of speech They
Personal pronoun
Person, They
Third person
Number, They
Plural number
Then how many do you mean, Mary Anne? Two? Or more
I beg your pardon, ma'am
but I don't know that I mean more than her brother himself
I felt convinced of it
Now pray, Mary Anne, be careful another time. He says is very different from they say, remember. Difference between he says and they say? Give it me
One is indicative mood, present tense, third person singular, verb active to say. Other is indicative mood, present tense, third person plural, verb active to say
Why verb active, Mary Anne
Because it takes a pronoun after it in the objective case, Miss Peecher
Very good indeed
In fact, could not be better. Don't forget to apply it, another time, Mary Anne
This must be where my sister lives, sir. This is where she came for a temporary lodging, soon after father's death
How often have you seen her since
Why, only twice, sir
but that's as much her doing as mine
How does she support herself
She was always a fair needlewoman, and she keeps the stockroom of a seaman's outfitter
Does she ever work at her own lodging here
Sometimes; but her regular hours and regular occupation are at their place of business, I believe, sir. This is the number
I can't get up
because my back's bad, and my legs are queer. But I'm the person of the house
Who else is at home
Nobody's at home at present
except the person of the house. What did you want, young man
I wanted to see my sister
Many young men have sisters
Give me your name, young man
Hexam is my name
Ah, indeed
I thought it might be. Your sister will be in, in about a quarter of an hour. I am very fond of your sister. She's my particular friend. Take a seat. And this gentleman's name
Mr Headstone, my schoolmaster
Take a seat. And would you please to shut the street door first? I can't very well do it myself; because my back's so bad, and my legs are so queer
You can't tell me the name of my trade, I'll be bound
You make pincushions
What else do I make
Pen-wipers
Ha! ha! What else do I make? You're a schoolmaster, but you can't tell me
You do something
with straw; but I don't know what
Well done you
I only make pincushions and pen-wipers, to use up my waste. But my straw really does belong to my business. Try again. What do I make with my straw
Dinner-mats
A schoolmaster, and says dinner-mats! I'll give you a clue to my trade, in a game of forfeits. I love my love with a B because she's Beautiful; I hate my love with a B because she is Brazen; I took her to the sign of the Blue Boar, and I treated her with Bonnets; her name's Bouncer, and she lives in Bedlam.-- Now, what do I make with my straw
Ladies' bonnets
I hope it's a good business
No. Poorly paid. And I'm often so pressed for time! I had a doll married, last week, and was obliged to work all night. And it's not good for me, on account of my back being so bad and my legs so queer
I am sorry your fine ladies are so inconsiderate
It's the way with them
And they take no care of their clothes, and they never keep to the same fashions a month. I work for a doll with three daughters. Bless you, she's enough to ruin her husband
Are you always as busy as you are now
Busier. I'm slack just now. I finished a large mourning order the day before yesterday. Doll I work for, lost a canary-bird
Oh this world, this world
Are you alone all day
Don't any of the neighbouring children
Ah, lud
Don't talk of children. I can't bear children. I know their tricks and their manners
Always running about and screeching, always playing and fighting, always skip-skip-skipping on the pavement and chalking it for their games! Oh! I know their tricks and their manners
And that's not all. Ever so often calling names in through a person's keyhole, and imitating a person's back and legs. Oh! I know their tricks and their manners. And I'll tell you what I'd do, to punish 'em. There's doors under the church in the Square -- black doors, leading into black vaults. Well! I'd open one of those doors, and I'd cram 'em all in, and then I'd lock the door and through the keyhole I'd blow in pepper
What would be the good of blowing in pepper
To set 'em sneezing
and make their eyes water. And when they were all sneezing and inflamed, I'd mock 'em through the keyhole. Just as they, with their tricks and their manners, mock a person through a person's keyhole
No, no, no. No children for me. Give me grown-ups
I always did like grown-ups
and always kept company with them. So sensible. Sit so quiet. Don't go prancing and capering about! And I mean always to keep among none but grown-ups till I marry. I suppose I must make up my mind to marry, one of these days
Now here, for instance, is a grown-up that's my particular friend
Charley! You
There, there, there, Liz, all right my dear. See! Here's Mr Headstone come with me
I told Mr Headstone you were not settled, Liz, but he was so kind as to take an interest in coming, and so I brought him. How well you look
Ah! Don't she, don't she
I didn't expect a visit from you, Charley
I supposed that if you wanted to see me you would have sent to me, appointing me to come somewhere near the school, as I did last time. I saw my brother near the school, sir
because it's easier for me to go there, than for him to come here. I work about midway between the two places
You don't see much of one another
No
Charley always does well, Mr Headstone
He could not do better. I regard his course as quite plain before him
I hoped so. I am so thankful. So well done of you, Charley dear! It is better for me not to come (except when he wants me) between him and his prospects. You think so, Mr Headstone
Your brother is very much occupied, you know. He has to work hard. One cannot but say that the less his attention is diverted from his work, the better for his future. When he shall have established himself, why then -- it will be another thing then
I always advised him as you advise him. Did I not, Charley
Well, never mind that now
How are you getting on
Very well, Charley. I want for nothing
You have your own room here
Oh yes. Upstairs. And it's quiet, and pleasant, and airy
And she always has the use of this room for visitors
Always this room for visitors; haven't you, Lizzie dear
Aha! Caught you spying, did I
I'll saunter on by the river
You will be glad to talk together
When are you going to settle yourself in some Christian sort of place, Liz? I thought you were going to do it before now
I am very well where I am, Charley
Very well where you are! I am ashamed to have brought Mr Headstone with me. How came you to get into such company as that little witch's
By chance at first, as it seemed, Charley. But I think it must have been by something more than chance, for that child -- You remember the bills upon the walls at home
Confound the bills upon the walls at home! I want to forget the bills upon the walls at home, and it would be better for you to do the same
Well; what of them
This child is the grandchild of the old man
What old man
The terrible drunken old man, in the list slippers and the night- cap
How came you to make that out? What a girl you are
The child's father is employed by the house that employs me; that's how I came to know it, Charley. The father is like his own father, a weak wretched trembling creature, falling to pieces, never sober. But a good workman too, at the work he does. The mother is dead. This poor ailing little creature has come to be what she is, surrounded by drunken people from her cradle -- if she ever had one, Charley
I don't see what you have to do with her, for all that
Don't you, Charley
Any compensation -- restitution -- never mind the word, you know my meaning. Father's grave
It'll be a very hard thing, Liz, if, when I am trying my best to get up in the world, you pull me back
I, Charley
Yes, you, Liz. Why can't you let bygones be bygones? Why can't you, as Mr Headstone said to me this very evening about another matter, leave well alone? What we have got to do, is, to turn our faces full in our new direction, and keep straight on
And never look back? Not even to try to make some amends
You are such a dreamer
It was all very well when we sat before the fire -- when we looked into the hollow down by the flare -- but we are looking into the real world, now
Ah, we were looking into the real world then, Charley
I understand what you mean by that, but you are not justified in it. I don't want, as I raise myself to shake you off, Liz. I want to carry you up with me. That's what I want to do, and mean to do. I know what I owe you. I said to Mr Headstone this very evening, "After all, my sister got me here." Well, then. Don't pull me back, and hold me down. That's all I ask, and surely that's not unconscionable
I am not here selfishly, Charley. To please myself I could not be too far from that river
Nor could you be too far from it to please me. Let us get quit of it equally. Why should you linger about it any more than I? I give it a wide berth
I can't get away from it, I think
It's no purpose of mine that I live by it still
There you go, Liz! Dreaming again! You lodge yourself of your own accord in a house with a drunken -- tailor, I suppose -- or something of the sort, and a little crooked antic of a child, or old person, or whatever it is, and then you talk as if you were drawn or driven there. Now, do be more practical
Upon my word, Liz
I mean to be a good brother to you, and to prove that I know what I owe you. All I say is, that I hope you'll control your fancies a little, on my account. I'll get a school, and then you must come and live with me, and you'll have to control your fancies then, so why not now? Now, say I haven't vexed you
You haven't, Charley, you haven't
And say I haven't hurt you
You haven't, Charley
Say you are sure I didn't mean to. Come! There's Mr Headstone stopping and looking over the wall at the tide, to hint that it's time to go. Kiss me, and tell me that you know I didn't mean to hurt you
But we go your sister's way
I will not go in just yet
And you have a distance before you, and will walk faster without me
Who is it that you stare after
Why
It IS that Wrayburn one
I beg your pardon, Mr Headstone, but I couldn't help wondering what in the world brought HIM here
You don't appear to like your friend, Hexam
I DON'T like him
Why not
He took hold of me by the chin in a precious impertinent way, the first time I ever saw him
Again, why
For nothing. Or -- it's much the same -- because something I happened to say about my sister didn't happen to please him
Then he knows your sister
He didn't at that time
Does now
Yes, sir
Going to see her, I dare say
It can't be
He doesn't know her well enough. I should like to catch him at it
You were going to tell me something about that person. What did you say his name was
Wrayburn. Mr Eugene Wrayburn. He is what they call a barrister, with nothing to do. The first time be came to our old place was when my father was alive. He came on business; not that it was HIS business -- HE never had any business -- he was brought by a friend of his
And the other times
There was only one other time that I know of. When my father was killed by accident, he chanced to be one of the finders. He was mooning about, I suppose, taking liberties with people's chins; but there he was, somehow. He brought the news home to my sister early in the morning, and brought Miss Abbey Potterson, a neighbour, to help break it to her. He was mooning about the house when I was fetched home in the afternoon -- they didn't know where to find me till my sister could be brought round sufficiently to tell them -- and then he mooned away
And is that all
That's all, sir
I suppose -- your sister
has received hardly any teaching, Hexam
Hardly any, sir
Sacrificed, no doubt, to her father's objections. I remember them in your case. Yet -- your sister -- scarcely looks or speaks like an ignorant person
Lizzie has as much thought as the best, Mr Headstone. Too much, perhaps, without teaching. I used to call the fire at home, her books, for she was always full of fancies -- sometimes quite wise fancies, considering -- when she sat looking at it
I don't like that
I have never brought myself to mention it openly to you, Mr Headstone, and you're my witness that I couldn't even make up my mind to take it from you before we came out to-night; but it's a painful thing to think that if I get on as well as you hope, I shall be -- I won't say disgraced, because I don't mean disgraced&#65533;but -- rather put to the blush if it was known -- by a sister who has been very good to me
Yes
and there is this possibility to consider. Some man who had worked his way might come to admire -- your sister -- and might even in time bring himself to think of marrying -- your sister -- and it would be a sad drawback and a heavy penalty upon him, if; overcoming in his mind other inequalities of condition and other considerations against it, this inequality and this consideration remained in full force
That's much my own meaning, sir
Ay, ay
but you spoke of a mere brother. Now, the case I have supposed would be a much stronger case; because an admirer, a husband, would form the connexion voluntarily, besides being obliged to proclaim it: which a brother is not. After all, you know, it must be said of you that you couldn't help yourself: while it would be said of him, with equal reason, that he could
That's true, sir. Sometimes since Lizzie was left free by father's death, I have thought that such a young woman might soon acquire more than enough to pass muster. And sometimes I have even thought that perhaps Miss Peecher
For the purpose, I would advise Not Miss Peecher
Would you be so kind as to think of it for me, Mr Headstone
Yes, Hexam, yes. I'll think of it. I'll think maturely of it. I'll think well of it
Well, Mary Anne
Mr Headstone coming home, ma'am
Yes, Mary Anne
Gone in and locked his door, ma'am
Well Lizzie-Mizzie-Wizzie
what's the news out of doors
What's the news in doors
Let me see, said the blind man. Why the last news is, that I don't mean to marry your brother
No
No-o
Don't like the boy
What do you say to his master
I say that I think he's bespoke
This is what your loving Jenny Wren calls the best time in the day and night
I have been thinking
as I sat at work to-day, what a thing it would be, if I should be able to have your company till I am married, or at least courted. Because when I am courted, I shall make Him do some of the things that you do for me. He couldn't brush my hair like you do, or help me up and down stairs like you do, and he couldn't do anything like you do; but he could take my work home, and he could call for orders in his clumsy way. And he shall too. I'LL trot him about, I can tell him
him
Wherever he may happen to be just at present, or whoever he may happen to be
I know his tricks and his manners, and I give him warning to look out
Don't you think you are rather hard upon him
Not a bit
My dear, they don't care for you, those fellows, if you're NOT hard upon 'em. But I was saying If I should be able to have your company. Ah! What a large If! Ain't it
I have no intention of parting company, Jenny
Don't say that, or you'll go directly
Am I so little to be relied upon
You're more to be relied upon than silver and gold
Mr Eugene Wrayburn, ain't it
So I am told
You may come in, if you're good
I am not good
but I'll come in
Yes
The schoolmaster
To be sure. Looked like it
I have nothing to report, Lizzie
But, having promised you that an eye should be always kept on Mr Riderhood through my friend Lightwood, I like occasionally to renew my assurance that I keep my promise, and keep my friend up to the mark
I should not have doubted it, sir
Generally, I confess myself a man to be doubted
for all that
Why are you
Because, my dear
I am a bad idle dog
Then why don't you reform and be a good dog
Because, my dear
there's nobody who makes it worth my while. Have you considered my suggestion, Lizzie
I have thought of it, Mr Wrayburn, but I have not been able to make up my mind to accept it
False pride
I think not, Mr Wrayburn. I hope not
False pride
Why, what else is it? The thing is worth nothing in itself. The thing is worth nothing to me. What can it be worth to me? You know the most I make of it. I propose to be of some use to somebody -- which I never was in this world, and never shall be on any other occasion -- by paying some qualified person of your own sex and age, so many (or rather so few) contemptible shillings, to come here, certain nights in the week, and give you certain instruction which you wouldn't want if you hadn't been a self-denying daughter and sister. You know that it's good to have it, or you would never have so devoted yourself to your brother's having it. Then why not have it: especially when our friend Miss Jenny here would profit by it too? If I proposed to be the teacher, or to attend the lessons -- obviously incongruous!-- but as to that, I might as well be on the other side of the globe, or not on the globe at all. False pride, Lizzie. Because true pride wouldn't shame, or be shamed by, your thankless brother. True pride wouldn't have schoolmasters brought here, like doctors, to look at a bad case. True pride would go to work and do it. You know that, well enough, for you know that your own true pride would do it to-morrow, if you had the ways and means which false pride won't let me supply. Very well. I add no more than this. Your false pride does wrong to yourself and does wrong to your dead father
How to my father, Mr Wrayburn
How to your father? Can you ask! By perpetuating the consequences of his ignorant and blind obstinacy. By resolving not to set right the wrong he did you. By determining that the deprivation to which he condemned you, and which he forced upon you, shall always rest upon his head
Don't be distressed
I hope it is not I who have distressed you. I meant no more than to put the matter in its true light before you; though I acknowledge I did it selfishly enough, for I am disappointed
It won't break my heart
it won't stay by me eight-and-forty hours; but I am genuinely disappointed. I had set my fancy on doing this little thing for you and for our friend Miss Jenny. The novelty of my doing anything in the least useful, had its charms. I see, now, that I might have managed it better. I might have affected to do it wholly for our friend Miss J. I might have got myself up, morally, as Sir Eugene Bountiful. But upon my soul I can't make flourishes, and I would rather be disappointed than try
It opened out so naturally before me
The ball seemed so thrown into my hands by accident! I happen to be originally brought into contact with you, Lizzie, on those two occasions that you know of. I happen to be able to promise you that a watch shall be kept upon that false accuser, Riderhood. I happen to be able to give you some little consolation in the darkest hour of your distress, by assuring you that I don't believe him. On the same occasion I tell you that I am the idlest and least of lawyers, but that I am better than none, in a case I have noted down with my own hand, and that you may be always sure of my best help, and incidentally of Lightwood's too, in your efforts to clear your father. So, it gradually takes my fancy that I may help you -- so easily!-- to clear your father of that other blame which I mentioned a few minutes ago, and which is a just and real one. I hope I have explained myself; for I am heartily sorry to have distressed you. I hate to claim to mean well, but I really did mean honestly and simply well, and I want you to know it
I have never doubted that, Mr Wrayburn
I am very glad to hear it. Though if you had quite understood my whole meaning at first, I think you would not have refused. Do you think you would
I -- don't know that I should, Mr Wrayburn
Well! Then why refuse now you do understand it
It's not easy for me to talk to you
for you see all the consequences of what I say, as soon as I say it
Take all the consequences
and take away my disappointment. Lizzie Hexam, as I truly respect you, and as I am your friend and a poor devil of a gentleman, I protest I don't even now understand why you hesitate
I will not hesitate any longer, Mr Wrayburn. I hope you will not think the worse of me for having hesitated at all. For myself and for Jenny -- you let me answer for you, Jenny dear
Yes
For myself and for Jenny, I thankfully accept your kind offer
Agreed! Dismissed
I hope it may not be often that so much is made of so little
I think of setting up a doll, Miss Jenny
You had better not
Why not
You are sure to break it. All you children do
But that makes good for trade, you know, Miss Wren
Much as people's breaking promises and contracts and bargains of all sorts, makes good for MY trade
I don't know about that
but you had better by half set up a pen-wiper, and turn industrious, and use it
Why, if we were all as industrious as you, little Busy-Body, we should begin to work as soon as we could crawl, and there would be a bad thing
Do you mean
bad for your backs and your legs
No, no, no
Bad for business, bad for business. If we all set to work as soon as we could use our hands, it would be all over with the dolls' dressmakers
There's something in that
you have a sort of an idea in your noddle sometimes
Talking of ideas, my Lizzie
I wonder how it happens that when I am work, work, working here, all alone in the summer-time, I smell flowers
As a commonplace individual, I should say
that you smell flowers because you DO smell flowers
No I don't
this is not a flowery neighbourhood. It's anything but that. And yet as I sit at work, I smell miles of flowers. I smell roses, till I think I see the rose-leaves lying in heaps, bushels, on the floor. I smell fallen leaves, till I put down my hand -- so -- and expect to make them rustle. I smell the white and the pink May in the hedges, and all sorts of flowers that I never was among. For I have seen very few flowers indeed, in my life
Pleasant fancies to have, Jenny dear
So I think, Lizzie, when they come to me. And the birds I hear! Oh
how they sing
I dare say my birds sing better than other birds, and my flowers smell better than other flowers. For when I was a little child
the children that I used to see early in the morning were very different from any others that I ever saw. They were not like me; they were not chilled, anxious, ragged, or beaten; they were never in pain. They were not like the children of the neighbours; they never made me tremble all over, by setting up shrill noises, and they never mocked me. Such numbers of them too! All in white dresses, and with something shining on the borders, and on their heads, that I have never been able to imitate with my work, though I know it so well. They used to come down in long bright slanting rows, and say all together, "Who is this in pain! Who is this in pain!" When I told them who it was, they answered, "Come and play with us!" When I said "I never play! I can't play!" they swept about me and took me up, and made me light. Then it was all delicious ease and rest till they laid me down, and said, all together, "Have patience, and we will come again." Whenever they came back, I used to know they were coming before I saw the long bright rows, by hearing them ask, all together a long way off, "Who is this in pain! Who is this in pain!" And I used to cry out, "O my blessed children, it's poor me. Have pity on me. Take me up and make me light
What poor fun you think me; don't you, Mr Wrayburn? You may well look tired of me. But it's Saturday night, and I won't detain you
That is to say, Miss Wren
you wish me to go
Well, it's Saturday night
A doll
Her father
Don't go away, Miss Hexam
Don't fly from unfortunate man in shattered state of health. Give poor invalid honour of your company. It ain't -- ain't catching
How's my Jenny
How's my Jenny Wren, best of children, object dearest affections broken-hearted invalid
Go along with you! Go along into your corner! Get into your corner directly
Oh-h-h
You bad old boy! Oh-h-h you naughty, wicked creature! WHAT do you mean by it
I know your tricks and your manners
I know where you've been to
Oh, you disgraceful old chap
Slave, slave, slave, from morning to night
and all for this! WHAT do you mean by it
What
I wish you had been taken up, and locked up
I wish you had been poked into cells and black holes, and run over by rats and spiders and beetles. I know their tricks and their manners, and they'd have tickled you nicely. Ain't you ashamed of yourself
Yes, my dear
Then
WHAT do you mean by it
Circumstances over which had no control
I'LL circumstance you and control you too
if you talk in that way. I'll give you in charge to the police, and have you fined five shillings when you can't pay, and then I won't pay the money for you, and you'll be transported for life. How should you like to be transported for life
Shouldn't like it. Poor shattered invalid. Trouble nobody long
Come, come
you know what you've got to do. Put down your money this instant
Spent a fortune out of your wages, I'll be bound
Put it here! All you've got left! Every farthing
Is this all
Got no more
Let me make sure. You know what you've got to do. Turn all your pockets inside out, and leave 'em so
Here's but seven and eightpence halfpenny
Oh, you prodigal old son! Now you shall be starved
No, don't starve me
If you were treated as you ought to be
you'd be fed upon the skewers of cats' meat;-- only the skewers, after the cats had had the meat. As it is, go to bed
Circumstances over which no control
Get along with you to bed
Don't speak to me. I'm not going to forgive you. Go to bed this moment
Shall we have our supper, Jenny dear
Ah! bless us and save us, we need have something to keep us going
Now for supper! What are you thinking of, Jenny darling
I was thinking
what I would do to Him, if he should turn out a drunkard
Oh, but he won't
You'll take care of that, beforehand
I shall try to take care of it beforehand, but he might deceive me. Oh, my dear, all those fellows with their tricks and their manners do deceive
And if so, I tell you what I think I'd do. When he was asleep, I'd make a spoon red hot, and I'd have some boiling liquor bubbling in a saucepan, and I'd take it out hissing, and I'd open his mouth with the other hand -- or perhaps he'd sleep with his mouth ready open -- and I'd pour it down his throat, and blister it and choke him
I am sure you would do no such horrible thing
Shouldn't I? Well; perhaps I shouldn't. But I should like to
I am equally sure you would not
Not even like to? Well, you generally know best. Only you haven't always lived among it as I have lived -- and your back isn't bad and your legs are not queer
a representative man
whether his friends will rally round him
whether his friends will rally round him
We must work
We must work
My dear Twemlow
Then there can be no more doubt about it in future
and I AM
Are you of opinion that your cousin, Lord Snigsworth, would give his name as a Member of my Committee? I don't go so far as to ask for his lordship; I only ask for his name. Do you think he would give me his name
I don't think he would
My political opinions
are identical with those of Lord Snigsworth, and perhaps as a matter of public feeling and public principle, Lord Snigswotth would give me his name
It might be so
but
Between such old and intimate friends as ourselves
there should in such a case be no reserve. Promise me that if I ask you to do anything for me which you don't like to do, or feel the slightest difficulty in doing, you will freely tell me so
Would you have any objection to write down to Snigsworthy Park, and ask this favour of Lord Snigsworth? Of course if it were granted I should know that I owed it solely to you; while at the same time you would put it to Lord Snigsworth entirely upon public grounds. Would you have any objection
You have exacted a promise from me
I have, my dear Twemlow
And you expect me to keep it honourably
I do, my dear Twemlow
ON the whole, then;-- observe me
ON the whole, I must beg you to excuse me from addressing any communication to Lord Snigsworth
Bless you, bless you
One thing, however, I CAN do for you
and that is, work for you
I'll go
Twenty minutes to eleven
I'll be
at the club by ten minutes to twelve, and I'll never leave it all day
Thank you, thank you. I knew I could rely upon you. I said to Anastatia before leaving home just now to come to you -- of course the first friend I have seen on a subject so momentous to me, my dear Twemlow -- I said to Anastatia, "We must work
You were right, you were right
Tell me. Is SHE working
She is
Good
A woman's tact is invaluable. To have the dear sex with us, is to have everything with us
But you have not imparted to me
what you think of my entering the House of Commons
I think
that it is the best club in London
Do you know Veneering
No; member of the club
Yes. Coming in for Pocket-Breaches
Ah! Hope he may find it worth the money
will rally round him
Now, first of all, Veneering, do you ask my advice
Yes, yes, that's all very well
but have you made up your mind to take this borough of Pocket-Breaches on its own terms, or do you ask my opinion whether you shall take it or leave it alone
Now, I'll be plain with you, Veneering
You will infer that I don't care about Parliament, from the fact of my not being there
It is not worth my while
and it is the reverse of important to my position. But it is not my wish to set myself up as law for another man, differently situated. You think it IS worth YOUR while, and IS important to YOUR position. Is that so
Then you don't ask my advice
Good. Then I won't give it you. But you do ask my help. Good. Then I'll work for you
I have nothing very particular to do to-day
and I'll mix with some influential people. I had engaged myself to dinner, but I'll send Mrs Podsnap and get off going myself; and I'll dine with you at eight. It's important we should report progress and compare notes. Now, let me see. You ought to have a couple of active energetic fellows, of gentlemanly manners, to go about
Whom I have met at your house
Yes. They'll do very well. Let them each have a cab, and go about
To Lady Tippins's
My love
compose yourself; we'll bring him in
going about
Many such days would be too much for all of us
but we'll bring him in
We'll bring him in
Veneering for ever
We'll bring him in
We'll bring him in
I'll keep about the lobby for an hour or so
and if things look well, I won't come back, but will order my cab for nine in the morning
You couldn't do better
Now, is your horse pretty fresh
Put him along then
House of Commons
Mark my words, sir. That's a man of resource; that's a man to make his way in life
He's up
He-a-a-r He-a-a-r
And, gentlemen, when the timbers of the Vessel of the State are unsound and the Man at the Helm is unskilful, would those great Marine Insurers, who rank among our world-famed merchant- princes -- would they insure her, gentlemen? Would they underwrite her? Would they incur a risk in her? Would they have confidence in her? Why, gentlemen, if I appealed to my honourable friend upon my right, himself among the greatest and most respected of that great and much respected class, he would answer No
Why, gentlemen, if I were to indicate such a programme to any class of society, I say it would be received with derision, would be pointed at by the finger of scorn. If I indicated such a programme to any worthy and intelligent tradesman of your town -- nay, I will here be personal, and say Our town -- what would he reply? He would reply, "Away with it!" That's what HE would reply, gentlemen. In his honest indignation he would reply, "Away with it!" But suppose I mounted higher in the social scale. Suppose I drew my arm through the arm of my respected friend upon my left, and, walking with him through the ancestral woods of his family, and under the spreading beeches of Snigsworthy Park, approached the noble hall, crossed the courtyard, entered by the door, went up the staircase, and, passing from room to room, found myself at last in the august presence of my friend's near kinsman, Lord Snigsworth. And suppose I said to that venerable earl, "My Lord, I am here before your lordship, presented by your lordship's near kinsman, my friend upon my left, to indicate that programme;" what would his lordship answer? Why, he would answer, "Away with it!" That's what he would answer, gentlemen. "Away with it!" Unconsciously using, in his exalted sphere, the exact language of the worthy and intelligent tradesman of our town, the near and dear kinsman of my friend upon my left would answer in his wrath, "Away with it
He's down
We have brought him in
You will all think it foolish of me, I know, but I must mention it. As I sat by Baby's crib, on the night before the election, Baby was very uneasy in her sleep
After an interval almost convulsive, Baby curled her little hands in one another and smiled
I wonder why
Could it be, I asked myself
that the Fairies were telling Baby that her papa would shortly be an M. P
Gracious heavens! Now I have time to think of it, he never saw one of his constituents in all his days, until we saw them together
I shall either go distracted, or die, of this man. He comes upon me too late in life. I am not strong enough to bear him
splendid woman
How dare you
What do you mean? I have licensed this person. This person has taken out MY certificate. Through this person you strike at me, Podsnap the Great. And it is not that I particularly care for the person's dignity, but that I do most particularly care for Podsnap's
The very thing for the Lammles
Here I am in the closet
I am sure
Mr Lammle is like a lover. At least I -- I should think he was
Georgiana, darling
Take care
Oh my goodness me
What have I said now
Alfred, you know
You were never to say Mr Lammle any more, Georgiana
Oh! Alfred, then. I am glad it's no worse. I was afraid I had said something shocking. I am always saying something wrong to ma
To me, Georgiana dearest
No, not to you; you are not ma. I wish you were
And so, dearest Georgiana, Alfred is like your notion of a lover
I don't say that, Sophronia
I haven't any notion of a lover. The dreadful wretches that ma brings up at places to torment me, are not lovers. I only mean that Mr
Again, dearest Georgiana
That Alfred
Sounds much better, darling
Loves you so. He always treats you with such delicate gallantry and attention. Now, don't he
Truly, my dear
I believe that he loves me, fully as much as I love him
Oh, what happiness
But do you know, my Georgiana
that there is something suspicious in your enthusiastic sympathy with Alfred's tenderness
Good gracious no, I hope not
Doesn't it rather suggest
that my Georgiana's little heart is
Oh don't
Please don't! I assure you, Sophronia, that I only praise Alfred, because he is your husband and so fond of you
You are quite wrong, my love, in your guess at my meaning. What I insinuated was, that my Georgiana's little heart was growing conscious of a vacancy
No, no, no
I wouldn't have anybody say anything to me in that way for I don't know how many thousand pounds
In what way, my Georgiana
YOU know
I think I should go out of my mind, Sophronia, with vexation and shyness and detestation, if anybody did. It's enough for me to see how loving you and your husband are. That's a different thing. I couldn't bear to have anything of that sort going on with myself. I should beg and pray to -- to have the person taken away and trampled upon
What is this about husbands and detestations
Why, they say
that listeners never hear any good of themselves; though you -- but pray how long have you been here, sir
This instant arrived, my own
Then I may go on -- though if you had been here but a moment or two sooner, you would have heard your praises sounded by Georgiana
Only, if they were to be called praises at all which I really don't think they were
for being so devoted to Sophronia
Sophronia
My life
But it was not I who was to be taken away and trampled upon, I hope
Ask Georgiana, my soul
Oh, it was nobody
It was nonsense
But if you are determined to know, Mr Inquisitive Pet, as I suppose you are
it was any one who should venture to aspire to Georgiana
Sophronia, my love
you are not serious
Alfred, my love
I dare say Georgiana was not, but I am
Now this
shows the accidental combinations that there are in things! Could you believe, my Ownest, that I came in here with the name of an aspirant to our Georgiana on my lips
Of course I could believe, Alfred
anything that YOU told me
You dear one! And I anything that YOU told me
Here I am, suffocating in the closet
I give you my honour, my dear Sophronia
And I know what that is, love
You do, my darling -- that I came into the room all but uttering young Fledgeby's name. Tell Georgiana, dearest, about young Fledgeby
Oh no, don't! Please don't
I'd rather not
You must know, you dearly beloved little goose, that once upon a time there was a certain person called young Fledgeby. And this young Fledgeby, who was of an excellent family and rich, was known to two other certain persons, dearly attached to one another and called Mr and Mrs Alfred Lammle. So this young Fledgeby, being one night at the play, there sees with Mr and Mrs Alfred Lammle, a certain heroine called
No, don't say Georgiana Podsnap
Please don't. Oh do do do say somebody else! Not Georgiana Podsnap. Oh don't, don't, don't
No other
Oh ple-e-e-ease don't
I so hate him for saying it
For saying what, my dear
Oh, I don't know what he said
but I hate him all the same for saying it
My dear
the poor young fellow only says that he is stricken all of a heap
Oh, what shall I ever do
Oh my goodness what a Fool he must be
And implores to be asked to dinner, and to make a fourth at the play another time. And so he dines to-morrow and goes to the Opera with us. That's all. Except, my dear Georgiana -- and what will you think of this!-- that he is infinitely shyer than you, and far more afraid of you than you ever were of any one in all your days
If I understand this girl, sir, your dangerous fascinations have produced some effect upon her. I mention the conquest in good time because I apprehend your scheme to be more important to you than your vanity
five and forty thousand Tom
Two hundred and twenty-two on every individual share in the lot Joe
By Jupiter here it is at last
Warm weather, Mrs Lammle
Perhaps not
but I expect it will be devilish warm to-morrow
Been out to-day, Mrs Lammle
Some people
are accustomed to take long drives; but it generally appears to me that if they make 'em too long, they overdo it
Georgiana
you are not in your usual spirits. Why are you not in your usual spirits, Georgiana
Not aware of being different
You, my dear Georgiana! Who are always so natural and unconstrained with us! Who are such a relief from the crowd that are all alike! Who are the embodiment of gentleness, simplicity, and reality
Now, I will be judged
by my friend Fledgeby
Oh DON'T
I beg your pardon, Alfred, my dear, but I cannot part with Mr Fledgeby quite yet; you must wait for him a moment. Mr Fledgeby and I are engaged in a personal discussion
A personal discussion, Sophronia, my love? What discussion? Fledgeby, I am jealous. What discussion, Fledgeby
Shall I tell him, Mr Fledgeby
Yes, tell him
We were discussing then
if you MUST know, Alfred, whether Mr Fledgeby was in his usual flow of spirits
Why, that is the very point, Sophronia, that Georgiana and I were discussing as to herself! What did Fledgeby say
Oh, a likely thing, sir, that I am going to tell you everything, and be told nothing! What did Georgiana say
Georgiana said she was doing her usual justice to herself to-day, and I said she was not
Precisely
what I said to Mr Fledgeby
Sophronia, my dear
I don't like the colour of your dress
I appeal
to Mr Fledgeby
And I
to Georgiana
Georgy, my love
I rely upon you not to go over to the opposition. Now, Mr Fledgeby
Very happy, Fledgeby
Oh, Mr Fledgeby
to desert me in that way! Oh, Mr Fledgeby, to abandon my poor dear injured rose and declare for blue
Victory, victory
your dress is condemned, my dear
But what
what does Georgy say
She says
that in her eyes you look well in any colour, Sophronia, and that if she had expected to be embarrassed by so pretty a compliment as she has received, she would have worn another colour herself. Though I tell her, in reply, that it would not have saved her, for whatever colour she had worn would have been Fledgeby's colour. But what does Fledgeby say
He says
that it was no compliment, but a little natural act of homage that he couldn't resist. And
he is right, he is right
Have you heard this opera of to-night, Fledgeby
confound you
Why no, not exactly
In fact I don't know a note of it
Neither do you know it, Georgy
N-no
Why, then
you neither of you know it! How charming
I consider myself very fortunate in being reserved by
Destiny
No, I wasn't going to say that
I was going to say Fate. I consider it very fortunate that Fate has written in the book of -- in the book which is its own property -- that I should go to that opera for the first time under the memorable circumstances of going with Miss Podsnap
Thank you, but I generally go with no one but you, Sophronia, and I like that very much
Oh, is it indeed? How does it act
Don't mind me, Mr Fledgeby, my skirts and cloak occupy both my hands, take Miss Podsnap
Alfred, my dear, Mr Fledgeby very justly says, apropos of the last scene, that true constancy would not require any such stimulant as the stage deems necessary
Ay, Sophronia, my love, but as Georgiana has observed to me, the lady had no sufficient reason to know the state of the gentleman's affections
Very true, Alfred; but Mr Fledgeby points out
Undoubtedly, Sophronia, but Georgiana acutely remarks
Oh little Georgiana, little Georgiana
You have enslaved your Fledgeby
Well
Was such an absolute Booby necessary to the purpose
I know what I am doing. He is no such dolt as you suppose
A genius, perhaps
You sneer, perhaps; and you take a lofty air upon yourself perhaps! But I tell you this:-- when that young fellow's interest is concerned, he holds as tight as a horse-leech. When money is in question with that young fellow, he is a match for the Devil
Is he a match for you
He is. Almost as good a one as you thought me for you. He has no quality of youth in him, but such as you have seen to-day. Touch him upon money, and you touch no booby then. He really is a dolt, I suppose, in other things; but it answers his one purpose very well
Has she money in her own right in any case
Ay! she has money in her own right in any case. You have done so well to-day, Sophronia, that I answer the question, though you know I object to any such questions. You have done so well to- day, Sophronia, that you must be tired. Get to bed
What did you think of Georgiana
Why, I'll tell you
Do, my boy
You misunderstand me
I don't mean I'll tell you that. I mean I'll tell you something else
Tell me anything, old fellow
Ah, but there you misunderstand me again
I mean I'll tell you nothing
Look here
You're deep and you're ready. Whether I am deep or not, never mind. I am not ready. But I can do one thing, Lammle, I can hold my tongue. And I intend always doing it
You are a long-headed fellow, Fledgeby
May be, or may not be. If I am a short-tongued fellow, it may amount to the same thing. Now, Lammle, I am never going to answer questions
My dear fellow, it was the simplest question in the world
Never mind. It seemed so, but things are not always what they seem. I saw a man examined as a witness in Westminster Hall. Questions put to him seemed the simplest in the world, but turned out to be anything rather than that, after he had answered 'em. Very well. Then he should have held his tongue. If he had held his tongue he would have kept out of scrapes that he got into
If I had held my tongue, you would never have seen the subject of my question
Now, Lammle
it won't do. I won't be led on into a discussion. I can't manage a discussion. But I can manage to hold my tongue
Can
I should think you could! Why, when these fellows of our acquaintance drink and you drink with them, the more talkative they get, the more silent you get. The more they let out, the more you keep in
I don't object, Lammle
to being understood, though I object to being questioned. That certainly IS the way I do it
And when all the rest of us are discussing our ventures, none of us ever know what a single venture of yours is
And none of you ever will from me, Lammle
that certainly IS the way I do it
Why of course it is, I know
If I hadn't known it of my Fledgeby, should I have proposed our little compact of advantage, to my Fledgeby
Ah
But I am not to be got at in that way. I am not vain. That sort of vanity don't pay, Lammle. No, no, no. Compliments only make me hold my tongue the more
What -- the -- Dev-il is this fellow about this morning
Now, look here, Lammle
And all this
all this because of one simple natural question
You should have waited till I thought proper to say something about it of myself. I don't like your coming over me with your Georgianas, as if you was her proprietor and mine too
Well, when you are in the gracious mind to say anything about it of yourself
pray do
I have done it. I have said you managed capitally. You and your wife both. If you'll go on managing capitally, I'll go on doing my part. Only don't crow
I crow
Or
or take it in your head that people are your puppets because they don't come out to advantage at the particular moments when you do, with the assistance of a very clever and agreeable wife. All the rest keep on doing, and let Mrs Lammle keep on doing. Now, I have held my tongue when I thought proper, and I have spoken when I thought proper, and there's an end of that. And now the question is
will you have another egg
No, I won't
Perhaps you're right and will find yourself better without it
To ask you if you'll have another rasher would be unmeaning flattery, for it would make you thirsty all day. Will you have some more bread and butter
No, I won't
Then I will
I suppose you, Lammle
always did go in for female society
Always
Came natural to you, eh
The sex were pleased to like me, sir
Made a pretty good thing of marrying, didn't you
My late governor made a mess of it
But Geor -- is the right name Georgina or Georgiana
Georgiana
I was thinking yesterday, I didn't know there was such a name. I thought it must end in ina. 'Why
Why, you play -- if you can -- the Concertina, you know
And you have -- when you catch it -- the Scarlatina. And you can come down from a balloon in a parach -- no you can't though. Well, say Georgeute -- I mean Georgiana
You were going to remark of Georgiana
I was going to remark of Georgiana, sir
that she don't seem to be violent. Don't seem to be of the pitching-in order
She has the gentleness of the dove, Mr Fledgeby
Of course you'll say so
But you know, the real look- out is this:-- what I say, not what you say. I say having my late governor and my late mother in my eye -- that Georgiana don't seem to be of the pitching-in order
You are a very offensive fellow, sir
You are a highly offensive scoundrel. What do you mean by this behaviour
I say
Don't break out
You are a very offensive fellow sir
You are a highly offensive scoundrel
I SAY, you know
Why, you coarse and vulgar vagabond
if your servant was here to give me sixpence of your money to get my boots cleaned afterwards -- for you are not worth the expenditure -- I'd kick you
No you wouldn't
I am sure you'd think better of it
I tell you what, Mr Fledgeby
Since you presume to contradict me, I'll assert myself a little. Give me your nose
I beg you won't
Give me your nose, sir
I beg, I beg, you won't
And this fellow
This fellow presumes on my having selected him out of all the young fellows I know, for an advantageous opportunity! This fellow presumes on my having in my desk round the corner, his dirty note of hand for a wretched sum payable on the occurrence of a certain event, which event can only be of my and my wife's bringing about! This fellow, Fledgeby, presumes to be impertinent to me, Lammle. Give me your nose sir
No! Stop! I beg your pardon
What do you say, sir
I beg your pardon
Repeat your words louder, sir. The just indignation of a gentleman has sent the blood boiling to my head. I don't hear you
I say
I beg your pardon
As a man of honour
I am disarmed
Lammle
I hope we are friends again
Mr Fledgeby
say no more
I must have gone too far in making myself disagreeable
but I never intended it
Say no more, say no more
Give me your
hand
Now you sir
These are nice games
What have you been up to
Generous Christian master
it being holiday, I looked for no one
Holiday he blowed
What have YOU got to do with holidays? Shut the door
You have not told me what you were up to, you sir
Sir, I was breathing the air
In the cellar, that you didn't hear
On the house-top
Upon my soul! That's a way of doing business
Sir
there must be two parties to the transaction of business, and the holiday has left me alone
Ah! Can't be buyer and seller too. That's what the Jews say; ain't it
At least we say truly, if we say so
Your people need speak the truth sometimes, for they lie enough
Sir, there is
too much untruth among all denominations of men
For instance
who but you and I ever heard of a poor Jew
The Jews
They hear of poor Jews often, and are very good to them
Bother that
You know what I mean. You'd persuade me if you could, that you are a poor Jew. I wish you'd confess how much you really did make out of my late governor. I should have a better opinion of you
Don't go on posturing like a Deaf and Dumb School
but express yourself like a Christian -- or as nearly as you can
I had had sickness and misfortunes, and was so poor
as hopelessly to owe the father, principal and interest. The son inheriting, was so merciful as to forgive me both, and place me here
You won't say more, I see
and so it's of no use my putting it to you. But confess this, Riah; who believes you to be poor now
No one
There you're right
No one
All scout it as a fable. Were I to say "This little fancy business is not mine
it is the little business of a Christian young gentleman who places me, his servant, in trust and charge here, and to whom I am accountable for every single bead," they would laugh. When, in the larger money-business, I tell the borrowers
I say, old chap
I hope you mind what you DO tell 'em
Sir, I tell them no more than I am about to repeat. When I tell them, "I cannot promise this, I cannot answer for the other, I must see my principal, I have not the money, I am a poor man and it does not rest with me," they are so unbelieving and so impatient, that they sometimes curse me in Jehovah's name
That's deuced good, that is
And at other times they say, "Can it never be done without these tricks, Mr Riah? Come, come, Mr Riah, we know the arts of your people" -- my people!--"If the money is to be lent, fetch it, fetch it; if it is not to be lent, keep it and say so." They never believe me
THAT'S all right
They say, "We know, Mr Riah, we know. We have but to look at you, and we know
un are you for the post
un was I to mark you out for it! I may be slow, but I am precious sure
Look here, Riah
I want to go a little more into buying-up queer bills. Look out in that direction
Sir, it shall be done
Casting my eye over the accounts, I find that branch of business pays pretty fairly, and I am game for extending it. I like to know people's affairs likewise. So look out
Sir, I will, promptly
Put it about in the right quarters, that you'll buy queer bills by the lump -- by the pound weight if that's all -- supposing you see your way to a fair chance on looking over the parcel. And there's one thing more. Come to me with the books for periodical inspection as usual, at eight on Monday morning
That's all I wanted to say at the present time
except that I wish you'd take the air where you can hear the bell, or the knocker, either one of the two or both. By-the-by how DO you take the air at the top of the house? Do you stick your head out of a chimney-pot
Sir, there are leads there, and I have made a little garden there
To bury your money in, you old dodger
A thumbnail's space of garden would hold the treasure I bury, master
Twelve shillings a week, even when they are an old man's wages, bury themselves
I should like to know what you really are worth
But come! Let's have a look at your garden on the tiles, before I go
Truly, sir, I have company there
Have you, by George
I suppose you happen to know whose premises these are
Sir, they are yours, and I am your servant in them
Oh! I thought you might have overlooked that
having company on my premises, you know
Come up and see the guests, sir. I hope for your admission that they can do no harm
Whoever you are, I can't get up, because my back's bad and my legs are queer
This is my master
Don't look like anybody's master
This, sir
is a little dressmaker for little people. Explain to the master, Jenny
Dolls; that's all
Very difficult to fit too, because their figures are so uncertain. You never know where to expect their waists
Her friend
and as industrious as virtuous. But that they both are. They are busy early and late, sir, early and late; and in bye-times, as on this holiday, they go to book-learning
Not much good to be got out of that
Depends upon the person
I made acquaintance with my guests, sir
through their coming here to buy of our damage and waste for Miss Jenny's millinery. Our waste goes into the best of company, sir, on her rosy-cheeked little customers. They wear it in their hair, and on their ball-dresses, and even (so she tells me) are presented at Court with it
Ah
she's been buying that basketful to-day, I suppose
I suppose she has
and paying for it too, most likely
Let's have a look at it
How much for this now
Two precious silver shillings
Well
the price is not so bad. You have got good measure, Miss What-is-it
Try Jenny
You have got good measure, Miss Jenny; but the price is not so bad.-- And you
do you buy anything here, miss
No, sir
Nor sell anything neither, miss
No, sir
We are thankful to come here for rest, sir
You see, you don't know what the rest of this place is to us; does he, Lizzie? It's the quiet, and the air
The quiet
And the air
Poof
Ah
But it's so high. And you see the clouds rushing on above the narrow streets, not minding them, and you see the golden arrows pointing at the mountains in the sky from which the wind comes, and you feel as if you were dead
How do you feel when you are dead
Oh, so tranquil
Oh, so peaceful and so thankful! And you hear the people who are alive, crying, and working, and calling to one another down in the close dark streets, and you seem to pity them so! And such a chain has fallen from you, and such a strange good sorrowful happiness comes upon you
Why it was only just now
that I fancied I saw him come out of his grave! He toiled out at that low door so bent and worn, and then he took his breath and stood upright, and looked all round him at the sky, and the wind blew upon him, and his life down in the dark was over!-- Till he was called back to life
Why did you call him back
He was long enough coming, anyhow
But you are not dead, you know
Get down to life
Don't be long gone. Come back, and be dead
Come back and be dead, Come back and be dead
That's a handsome girl, that one in her senses
And as good as handsome
At all events
I hope she ain't bad enough to put any chap up to the fastenings, and get the premises broken open. You look out. Keep your weather eye awake and don't make any more acquaintances, however handsome. Of course you always keep my name to yourself
Sir, assuredly I do
If they ask it, say it's Pubsey, or say it's Co, or say it's anything you like, but what it is
Come up and be dead! Come up and be dead
Well
I feel tolerably comfortable. I hope the upholsterer may do the same
Why shouldn't he
To be sure
he is not in the secret of our pecuniary affairs, so perhaps he may be in an easy frame of mind
We shall pay him
Shall we, really
You don't say so
I mean to pay him, Eugene, for my part
Ah! I mean to pay him too
But then I mean so much that I -- that I don't mean
Don't mean
So much that I only mean and shall always only mean and nothing more, my dear Mortimer. It's the same thing
Anyhow, your vagaries have increased the bill
Calls the domestic virtues vagaries
This very complete little kitchen of ours
in which nothing will ever be cooked
My dear, dear Mortimer
how often have I pointed out to you that its moral influence is the important thing
Its moral influence on this fellow
Do me the favour
to come and inspect that feature of our establishment which you rashly disparage
See
miniature flour-barrel, rolling- pin, spice-box, shelf of brown jars, chopping-board, coffee-mill, dresser elegantly furnished with crockery, saucepans and pans, roasting jack, a charming kettle, an armoury of dish-covers. The moral influence of these objects, in forming the domestic virtues, may have an immense influence upon me; not upon you, for you are a hopeless case, but upon me. In fact, I have an idea that I feel the domestic virtues already forming. Do me the favour to step into my bedroom. Secretaire, you see, and abstruse set of solid mahogany pigeon-holes, one for every letter of the alphabet. To what use do I devote them? I receive a bill -- say from Jones. I docket it neatly at the secretaire, JONES, and I put it into pigeonhole J. It's the next thing to a receipt and is quite as satisfactory to ME. And I very much wish, Mortimer
that my example might induce YOU to cultivate habits of punctuality and method; and, by means of the moral influences with which I have surrounded you, to encourage the formation of the domestic virtues
How CAN you be so ridiculous, Eugene
What an absurd fellow you are
Eugene
if I could find you in earnest for a minute, I would try to say an earnest word to you
An earnest word
The moral influences are beginning to work. Say on
Well, I will
though you are not earnest yet
In this desire for earnestness
I trace the happy influences of the little flour-barrel and the coffee-mill. Gratifying
Eugene
you are withholding something from me
All this past summer, you have been withholding something from me. Before we entered on our boating vacation, you were as bent upon it as I have seen you upon anything since we first rowed together. But you cared very little for it when it came, often found it a tie and a drag upon you, and were constantly away. Now it was well enough half-a-dozen times, a dozen times, twenty times, to say to me in your own odd manner, which I know so well and like so much, that your disappearances were precautions against our boring one another; but of course after a short while I began to know that they covered something. I don't ask what it is, as you have not told me; but the fact is so. Say, is it not
I give you my word of honour, Mortimer
that I don't know
Don't know, Eugene
Upon my soul, don't know. I know less about myself than about most people in the world, and I don't know
You have some design in your mind
Have I? I don't think I have
At any rate, you have some subject of interest there which used not to be there
I really can't say
At times I have thought yes; at other times I have thought no. Now, I have been inclined to pursue such a subject; now I have felt that it was absurd, and that it tired and embarrassed me. Absolutely, I can't say. Frankly and faithfully, I would if I could
You must take your friend as he is. You know what I am, my dear Mortimer. You know how dreadfully susceptible I am to boredom. You know that when I became enough of a man to find myself an embodied conundrum, I bored myself to the last degree by trying to find out what I meant. You know that at length I gave it up, and declined to guess any more. Then how can I possibly give you the answer that I have not discovered? The old nursery form runs, "Riddle-me-riddle-me-ree, p'raps you can't tell me what this may be?" My reply runs, "No. Upon my life, I can't
Come, dear boy
Let us try the effect of smoking. If it enlightens me at all on this question, I will impart unreservedly
No enlightenment
I feel sincerely apologetic, my dear Mortimer, but nothing comes
If nothing comes
nothing can come from it. So I shall hope that this may hold good throughout, and that there may be nothing on foot. Nothing injurious to you, Eugene, or
Or
Or injurious to any one else
How
how injurious to any one else
I don't know
And
to whom else
I don't know
Two belated wanderers in the mazes of the law
stray into the court. They examine the door-posts of number one, seeking the name they want. Not finding it at number one, they come to number two. On the hat of wanderer number two, the shorter one, I drop this pellet. Hitting him on the hat, I smoke serenely, and become absorbed in contemplation of the sky
When they emerge
I am on duty to-night
stay you where you are, Eugene
You recollect this young fellow, Eugene
Let me look at him
Oh, yes, yes. I recollect him
He says he has something to say
Surely it must be to you, Mortimer
So I thought, but he says no. He says it is to you
Yes, I do say so
And I mean to say what I want to say, too, Mr Eugene Wrayburn
And who may this other person be
I am Charles Hexam's friend
I am Charles Hexam's schoolmaster
My good sir, you should teach your pupils better manners
In some high respects, Mr Eugene Wrayburn
the natural feelings of my pupils are stronger than my teaching
In most respects, I dare say
though whether high or low is of no importance. You have my name very correctly. Pray what is yours
It cannot concern you much to know, but
True
it does not concern me at all to know. I can say Schoolmaster, which is a most respectable title. You are right, Schoolmaster
Mr Eugene Wrayburn
I want a word with you. I have wanted it so much, that we have looked out your address in the book, and we have been to your office, and we have come from your office here
You have given yourself much trouble, Schoolmaster
I hope it may prove remunerative
And I am glad to speak
in presence of Mr Lightwood, because it was through Mr Lightwood that you ever saw my sister
Similarly, it was through Mr Lightwood that you ever saw her again, for you were with him on the night when my father was found, and so I found you with her on the next day. Since then, you have seen my sister often. You have seen my sister oftener and oftener. And I want to know why
Was this worth while, Schoolmaster
So much trouble for nothing? You should know best, but I think not
I don't know, Mr Wrayburn
why you address me
Don't you? said Eugene. 'Then I won't
Mr Wrayburn
we not only know this that I have charged upon you, but we know more. It has not yet come to my sister's knowledge that we have found it out, but we have. We had a plan, Mr Headstone and I, for my sister's education, and for its being advised and overlooked by Mr Headstone, who is a much more competent authority, whatever you may pretend to think, as you smoke, than you could produce, if you tried. Then, what do we find? What do we find, Mr Lightwood? Why, we find that my sister is already being taught, without our knowing it. We find that while my sister gives an unwilling and cold ear to our schemes for her advantage -- I, her brother, and Mr Headstone, the most competent authority, as his certificates would easily prove, that could be produced -- she is wilfully and willingly profiting by other schemes. Ay, and taking pains, too, for I know what such pains are. And so does Mr Headstone! Well! Somebody pays for this, is a thought that naturally occurs to us; who pays? We apply ourselves to find out, Mr Lightwood, and we find that your friend, this Mr Eugene Wrayburn, here, pays. Then I ask him what right has he to do it, and what does he mean by it, and how comes he to be taking such a liberty without my consent, when I am raising myself in the scale of society by my own exertions and Mr Headstone's aid, and have no right to have any darkness cast upon my prospects, or any imputation upon my respectability, through my sister
Now I tell Mr Eugene Wrayburn
that I object to his having any acquaintance at all with my sister, and that I request him to drop it altogether. He is not to take it into his head that I am afraid of my sister's caring for HIM
But I object to it, and that's enough. I am more important to to my sister than he thinks. As I raise myself, I intend to raise her; she knows that, and she has to look to me for her prospects. Now I understand all this very well, and so does Mr Headstone. My sister is an excellent girl, but she has some romantic notions; not about such things as your Mr Eugene Wrayburns, but about the death of my father and other matters of that sort. Mr Wrayburn encourages those notions to make himself of importance, and so she thinks she ought to be grateful to him, and perhaps even likes to be. Now I don't choose her to be grateful to him, or to be grateful to anybody but me, except Mr Headstone. And I tell Mr Wrayburn that if he don't take heed of what I say, it will be worse for her. Let him turn that over in his memory, and make sure of it. Worse for her
May I suggest, Schoolmaster
that you can now take your pupil away
And Mr Lightwood
I hope you'll take notice of what I have said to your friend, and of what your friend has heard me say, word by word, whatever he pretends to the contrary. You are bound to take notice of it, Mr Lightwood, for, as I have already mentioned, you first brought your friend into my sister's company, and but for you we never should have seen him. Lord knows none of us ever wanted him, any more than any of us will ever miss him. Now Mr Headstone, as Mr Eugene Wrayburn has been obliged to hear what I had to say, and couldn't help himself, and as I have said it out to the last word, we have done all we wanted to do, and may go
Go down-stairs, and leave me a moment, Hexam
You think me of no more value than the dirt under your feet
I assure you, Schoolmaster
I don't think about you
That's not true
you know better
That's coarse
but you DON'T know better
Mr Wrayburn, at least I know very well that it would be idle to set myself against you in insolent words or overbearing manners. That lad who has just gone out could put you to shame in half-a- dozen branches of knowledge in half an hour, but you can throw him aside like an inferior. You can do as much by me, I have no doubt, beforehand
Possibly
But I am more than a lad
and I WILL be heard, sir
As a schoolmaster
you are always being heard. That ought to content you
But it does not content me
Do you suppose that a man, in forming himself for the duties I discharge, and in watching and repressing himself daily to discharge them well, dismisses a man's nature
I suppose you
judging from what I see as I look at you, to be rather too passionate for a good schoolmaster
Passionate with you, sir, I admit I am. Passionate with you, sir, I respect myself for being. But I have not Devils for my pupils
For your Teachers, I should rather say
Mr Wrayburn
Schoolmaster
Sir, my name is Bradley Headstone
As you justly said, my good sir, your name cannot concern me. Now, what more
This more. Oh, what a misfortune is mine
that I cannot so control myself as to appear a stronger creature than this, when a man who has not felt in all his life what I have felt in a day can so command himself
Mr Wrayburn, I desire to say something to you on my own part
Come, come, Schoolmaster
say what you have to say. And let me remind you that the door is standing open, and your young friend waiting for you on the stairs
When I accompanied that youth here, sir, I did so with the purpose of adding, as a man whom you should not be permitted to put aside, in case you put him aside as a boy, that his instinct is correct and right
Is that all
No, sir
I strongly support him in his disapproval of your visits to his sister, and in his objection to your officiousness -- and worse -- in what you have taken upon yourself to do for her
Is THAT all
No, sir. I determined to tell you that you are not justified in these proceedings, and that they are injurious to his sister
Are you her schoolmaster as well as her brother's?-- Or perhaps you would like to be
What do you mean by that
A natural ambition enough
Do you throw my obscurity in my teeth, Mr Wrayburn
That can hardly be, for I know nothing concerning it, Schoolmaster, and seek to know nothing
You reproach me with my origin
you cast insinuations at my bringing-up. But I tell you, sir, I have worked my way onward, out of both and in spite of both, and have a right to be considered a better man than you, with better reasons for being proud
How I can reproach you with what is not within my knowledge, or how I can cast stones that were never in my hand, is a problem for the ingenuity of a schoolmaster to prove
Is THAT all
No, sir. If you suppose that boy
Who really will be tired of waiting
If you suppose that boy to be friendless, Mr Wrayburn, you deceive yourself. I am his friend, and you shall find me so
And you will find HIM on the stairs
You may have promised yourself, sir, that you could do what you chose here, because you had to deal with a mere boy, inexperienced, friendless, and unassisted. But I give you warning that this mean calculation is wrong. You have to do with a man also. You have to do with me. I will support him, and, if need be, require reparation for him. My hand and heart are in this cause, and are open to him
And -- quite a coincidence -- the door is open
I scorn your shifty evasions, and I scorn you
In the meanness of your nature you revile me with the meanness of my birth. I hold you in contempt for it. But if you don't profit by this visit, and act accordingly, you will find me as bitterly in earnest against you as I could be if I deemed you worth a second thought on my own account
A curious monomaniac
The man seems to believe that everybody was acquainted with his mother
My dear fellow
I fear my unexpected visitors have been troublesome. If as a set-off (excuse the legal phrase from a barrister-at-law) you would like to ask Tippins to tea, I pledge myself to make love to her
Eugene, Eugene, Eugene
I am sorry for this. And to think that I have been so blind
How blind, dear boy
What were your words that night at the river-side public-house
What was it that you asked me? Did I feel like a dark combination of traitor and pickpocket when I thought of that girl
I seem to remember the expression
How do YOU feel when you think of her just now
Don't mistake the situation. There is no better girl in all this London than Lizzie Hexam. There is no better among my people at home; no better among your people
Granted. What follows
There
you put me again upon guessing the riddle that I have given up
Eugene, do you design to capture and desert this girl
My dear fellow, no
Do you design to marry her
My dear fellow, no
Do you design to pursue her
My dear fellow, I don't design anything. I have no design whatever. I am incapable of designs. If I conceived a design, I should speedily abandon it, exhausted by the operation
Oh Eugene, Eugene
Are you in communication with this girl, Eugene, and is what these people say true
I concede both admissions to my honourable and learned friend
Then what is to come of it? What are you doing? Where are you going
My dear Mortimer, one would think the schoolmaster had left behind him a catechizing infection. You are ruffled by the want of another cigar. Take one of these, I entreat. Light it at mine, which is in perfect order. So! Now do me the justice to observe that I am doing all I can towards self-improvement, and that you have a light thrown on those household implements which, when you only saw them as in a glass darkly, you were hastily -- I must say hastily -- inclined to depreciate. Sensible of my deficiencies, I have surrounded myself with moral influences expressly meant to promote the formation of the domestic virtues. To those influences, and to the improving society of my friend from boyhood, commend me with your best wishes
Ah, Eugene
I would that you answered my three questions! What is to come of it? What are you doing? Where are you going
And my dear Mortimer
believe me, I would answer them instantly if I could. But to enable me to do so, I must first have found out the troublesome conundrum long abandoned. Here it is. Eugene Wrayburn
Riddle-me, riddle- me-ree, perhaps you can't tell me what this may be?-- No, upon my life I can't. I give it up
And this, sir
was once Our House! This, sir, is the building from which I have so often seen those great creatures, Miss Elizabeth, Master George, Aunt Jane, and Uncle Parker
pass and repass! And has it come to this, indeed! Ah dear me, dear me
Bring me round to the Bower
next Saturday evening, and if a sociable glass of old Jamaikey warm should meet your views, I am not the man to begrudge it
You are aware of my being poor company, sir
but be it so
Oh! I thought perhaps you might have come in a cab
No, Mr Wegg
I am not above a parcel
Above a parcel! No
a certain sort of parcel might be above you
Here is your purchase, Mr Wegg
and I am glad to restore it to the source from whence it -- flowed
Thankee
Now this affair is concluded, I may mention to you in a friendly way that I've my doubts whether, if I had consulted a lawyer, you could have kept this article back from me. I only throw it out as a legal point
Do you think so, Mr Wegg? I bought you in open contract
You can't buy human flesh and blood in this country, sir; not alive, you can't
Then query, bone
As a legal point
As a legal point
I am not competent to speak upon that, Mr Wegg
but upon a point of fact I think myself competent to speak; and as a point of fact I would have seen you -- will you allow me to say, further
I wouldn't say more than further, if I was you
Before I'd have given that packet into your hand without being paid my price for it. I don't pretend to know how the point of law may stand, but I'm thoroughly confident upon the point of fact
Then I'd rather, Mr Wegg, you put it another time, penn'orth- etically
for I tell you candidly I don't like your little cases
Tolerable
But bear in mind, Mr Venus, that there's no gold without its alloy. Mix for yourself and take a seat in the chimbley-corner. Will you perform upon a pipe, sir
I am but an indifferent performer, sir
but I'll accompany you with a whiff or two at intervals
And there's alloy even in this metal of yours, Mr Wegg, you was remarking
Mystery
I don't like it, Mr Venus. I don't like to have the life knocked out of former inhabitants of this house, in the gloomy dark, and not know who did it
Might you have any suspicions, Mr Wegg
No
I know who profits by it. But I've no suspicions
Similarly
I have observations as I can offer upon certain points and parties; but I make no objections, Mr Venus. Here is an immense fortune drops from the clouds upon a person that shall be nameless. Here is a weekly allowance, with a certain weight of coals, drops from the clouds upon me. Which of us is the better man? Not the person that shall be nameless. That's an observation of mine, but I don't make it an objection. I take my allowance and my certain weight of coals. He takes his fortune. That's the way it works
It would be a good thing for me, if I could see things in the calm light you do, Mr Wegg
Again look here
here's another observation, Mr Venus, unaccompanied with an objection. Him that shall be nameless is liable to be talked over. He gets talked over. Him that shall be nameless, having me at his right hand, naturally looking to be promoted higher, and you may perhaps say meriting to be promoted higher
Him that shall be nameless, under such circumstances passes me by, and puts a talking-over stranger above my head. Which of us two is the better man? Which of us two can repeat most poetry? Which of us two has, in the service of him that shall be nameless, tackled the Romans, both civil and military, till he has got as husky as if he'd been weaned and ever since brought up on sawdust? Not the talking-over stranger. Yet the house is as free to him as if it was his, and he has his room, and is put upon a footing, and draws about a thousand a year. I am banished to the Bower, to be found in it like a piece of furniture whenever wanted. Merit, therefore, don't win. That's the way it works. I observe it, because I can't help observing it, being accustomed to take a powerful sight of notice; but I don't object. Ever here before, Mr Venus
Not inside the gate, Mr Wegg
You've been as far as the gate then, Mr Venus
Yes, Mr Wegg, and peeped in from curiosity
Did you see anything
Nothing but the dust-yard
And yet, sir
being acquainted with old Mr Harmon, one would have thought it might have been polite in you, too, to give him a call. And you're naturally of a polite disposition, you are
It is true, sir
that I was so, before a certain observation soured me. You understand to what I allude, Mr Wegg? To a certain written statement respecting not wishing to be regarded in a certain light. Since that, all is fled, save gall
Not all
Yes, sir
all! The world may deem it harsh, but I'd quite as soon pitch into my best friend as not. Indeed, I'd sooner
Why, you lost your balance, Mr Wegg
And about time to do it
when a man's visitors, without a word of notice, conduct themselves with the sudden wiciousness of Jacks-in-boxes! Don't come flying out of your chair like that, Mr Venus
I ask your pardon, Mr Wegg. I am so soured
Yes, but hang it
a well-governed mind can be soured sitting! And as to being regarded in lights, there's bumpey lights as well as bony. IN which
I object to regard myself
I'll bear it in memory, sir
If you'll be so good
We were talking of old Mr Harmon being a friend of yours
Not a friend, Mr Wegg. Only known to speak to, and to have a little deal with now and then. A very inquisitive character, Mr Wegg, regarding what was found in the dust. As inquisitive as secret
Ah! You found him secret
He had always the look of it, and the manner of it
Ah
or whether he scooped? Should you say scooped, my dear Mr Venus; or should you as a man -- say prodded
I should say neither, Mr Wegg
As a fellow-man, Mr Venus -- mix again -- why neither
Because I suppose, sir, that what was found, was found in the sorting and sifting. All the mounds are sorted and sifted
You shall see 'em and pass your opinion. Mix again
Living (as I said before) on the mysterious premises
one likes to know. Would you be inclined to say now -- as a brother -- that he ever hid things in the dust, as well as found 'em
Mr Wegg, on the whole I should say he might
As a mortal equally with myself, whose hand I take in mine for the first time this day, having unaccountably overlooked that act so full of boundless confidence binding a fellow-creetur TO a fellow creetur
as such -- and no other -- for I scorn all lowlier ties betwixt myself and the man walking with his face erect that alone I call my Twin -- regarded and regarding in this trustful bond -- what do you think he might have hid
It is but a supposition, Mr Wegg
As a Being with his hand upon his heart
put your supposition into language, and bring it out, Mr Venus
He was the species of old gentleman, sir
that I should judge likely to take such opportunities as this place offered, of stowing away money, valuables, maybe papers
As one that was ever an ornament to human life
Seeing that the old gentleman was generally cutting off some near relation, or blocking out some natural affection
he most likely made a good many wills and codicils
Twin in opinion equally with feeling! Mix a little more
Mr Venus. It ain't that I object to being passed over for a stranger, though I regard the stranger as a more than doubtful customer. It ain't for the sake of making money, though money is ever welcome. It ain't for myself, though I am not so haughty as to be above doing myself a good turn. It's for the cause of the right
What is, Mr Wegg
The friendly move, sir, that I now propose. You see the move, sir
Till you have pointed it out, Mr Wegg, I can't say whether I do or not
If there IS anything to be found on these premises, let us find it together. Let us make the friendly move of agreeing to look for it together. Let us make the friendly move of agreeing to share the profits of it equally betwixt us. In the cause of the right
Then
if anything was to be unburied from under the dust, it would be kept a secret by you and me? Would that be it, Mr Wegg
That would depend upon what it was, Mr Venus. Say it was money, or plate, or jewellery, it would be as much ours as anybody else's
In the cause of the right it would. Because it would be unknowingly sold with the mounds else, and the buyer would get what he was never meant to have, and never bought. And what would that be, Mr Venus, but the cause of the wrong
Say it was papers
According to what they contained we should offer to dispose of 'em to the parties most interested
In the cause of the right, Mr Wegg
Always so, Mr Venus. If the parties should use them in the cause of the wrong, that would be their act and deed. Mr Venus. I have an opinion of you, sir, to which it is not easy to give mouth. Since I called upon you that evening when you were, as I may say, floating your powerful mind in tea, I have felt that you required to be roused with an object. In this friendly move, sir, you will have a glorious object to rouse you
While as to myself
I am not good at it. Whether I gave myself up to prodding, or whether I gave myself up to scooping, I couldn't do it with that delicate touch so as not to show that I was disturbing the mounds. Quite different with YOU, going to work (as YOU would) in the light of a fellow- man, holily pledged in a friendly move to his brother man
was surely never meant for nothing
I see you have tried it by yourself, Mr Wegg
You have found out the difficulties by experience
No, it can hardly be said that I have tried it
I have just skimmed it. Skimmed it
And found nothing besides the difficulties
I scarcely know what to say to this, Mr Wegg
Say yes
If I wasn't soured, my answer would be no. But being soured, Mr Wegg, and driven to reckless madness and desperation, I suppose it's Yes
There's a footstep
Where
Outside. St
Come in
Pray is Mr Silas Wegg here? Oh! I see him
Good evening, Mr Wegg. The yard gate-lock should be looked to, if you please; it don't catch
Is it Mr Rokesmith
It is Mr Rokesmith. Don't let me disturb you. I am not coming in. I have only a message for you, which I undertook to deliver on my way home to my lodgings. I was in two minds about coming beyond the gate without ringing: not knowing but you might have a dog about
I wish I had
Is that any one I know
No, Mr Rokesmith. Friend of mine. Passing the evening with me
Oh! I beg his pardon. Mr Boffin wishes you to know that he does not expect you to stay at home any evening, on the chance of his coming. It has occurred to him that he may, without intending it, have been a tie upon you. In future, if he should come without notice, he will take his chance of finding you, and it will be all the same to him if he does not. I undertook to tell you on my way. That's all
Good night
And for that individual, Mr Venus
I have been passed over! Let me ask you what you think of him
A double look, you mean, sir
That's HIS look. Any amount of singular look for me, but not a double look! That's an under-handed mind, sir
Do you say there's something against him
Something against him
Something? What would the relief be to my feelings -- as a fellow-man -- if I wasn't the slave of truth, and didn't feel myself compelled to answer, Everything
On this starlight night, Mr Venus
on this starlight night to think that talking-over strangers, and underhanded minds, can go walking home under the sky, as if they was all square
The spectacle of those orbs
brings heavy on me her crushing words that she did not wish to regard herself nor yet to be regarded in that
I know! I know! You needn't repeat 'em
But think how those stars steady me in the cause of the right against some that shall be nameless. It isn't that I bear malice. But see how they glisten with old remembrances! Old remembrances of what, sir
Of her words, in her own handwriting, that she does not wish to regard herself, nor yet
No, sir! Remembrances of Our House, of Master George, of Aunt Jane, of Uncle Parker, all laid waste! All offered up sacrifices to the minion of fortune and the worm of the hour
An invaluable man is Rokesmith
But I can't quite make him out
He takes more care of my affairs, morning, noon, and night
than fifty other men put together either could or would; and yet he has ways of his own that are like tying a scaffolding-pole right across the road, and bringing me up short when I am almost a-walking arm in arm with him
May I ask how so, sir
Well, my dear
he won't meet any company here, but you. When we have visitors, I should wish him to have his regular place at the table like ourselves; but no, he won't take it
If he considers himself above it
I should leave him alone
It ain't that, my dear
He don't consider himself above it
Perhaps he considers himself beneath it
If so, he ought to know best
No, my dear; nor it ain't that, neither. No
Rokesmith's a modest man, but he don't consider himself beneath it
Then what does he consider, sir
Dashed if I know
It seemed that first as if it was only Lightwood that he objected to meet. And now it seems to be everybody, except you
In -- deed! That's it, is it
Rather cool in a Secretary -- and Pa's lodger -- to make me the subject of his jealousy
A little too much, I think
to have Pa's lodger laying claim to me, and keeping eligible people off! A little too much, indeed, to have the opportunities opened to me by Mr and Mrs Boffin, appropriated by a mere Secretary and Pa's lodger
You never charge me, Miss Wilfer
with commissions for home. I shall always be happy to execute any commands you may have in that direction
Pray what may you mean, Mr Rokesmith
By home? I mean your father's house at Holloway
What commissions and commands are you speaking of
Only little words of remembrance as I assume you sent somehow or other
It would be a pleasure to me if you would make me the bearer of them. As you know, I come and go between the two houses every day
You needn't remind me of that, sir
They don't send many -- what was your expression?-- words of remembrance to me
They frequently ask me about you, and I give them such slight intelligence as I can
I hope it's truly given
I hope you cannot doubt it, for it would be very much against you, if you could
No, I do not doubt it. I deserve the reproach, which is very just indeed. I beg your pardon, Mr Rokesmith
I should beg you not to do so, but that it shows you to such admirable advantage
Forgive me; I could not help saying that. To return to what I have digressed from, let me add that perhaps they think I report them to you, deliver little messages, and the like. But I forbear to trouble you, as you never ask me
I am going, sir
to see them tomorrow
Is that
said to me, or to them
To which you please
To both? Shall I make it a message
You can if you like, Mr Rokesmith. Message or no message, I am going to see them tomorrow
Then I will tell them so
What can I mean by it, or what can he mean by it
He has no right to any power over me, and how do I come to mind him when I don't care for him
I can hardly believe, thought Bella, that I ever did endure life in this place
This
is quite an honour! You will probably find your sister Lavvy grown, Bella
Ma
there can be no objection to your being aggravating, because Bella richly deserves it; but I really must request that you will not drag in such ridiculous nonsense as my having grown when I am past the growing age
I grew, myself
after I was married
Very well, Ma
then I think you had much better have left it alone
I suppose you won't consider yourself quite disgraced, Bella, if I give you a kiss? Well! And how do you do, Bella? And how are your Boffins
Peace
Hold! I will not suffer this tone of levity
My goodness me! How are your Spoffins, then
since Ma so very much objects to your Boffins
Impertinent girl! Minx
I don't care whether I am a Minx, or a Sphinx
it's exactly the same thing to me, and I'd every bit as soon be one as the other; but I know this -- I'll not grow after I'm married
You will not? YOU will not
No, Ma, I will not. Nothing shall induce me
But it was to be expected;' thus she spake. 'A child of mine deserts me for the proud and prosperous, and another child of mine despises me. It is quite fitting
Ma
Mr and Mrs Boffin are prosperous, no doubt; but you have no right to say they are proud. You must know very well that they are not
In short, Ma
Truly
After all, you know, Bella, you haven't told us how your Whatshisnames are
I don't want to speak of them here
They are much too kind and too good to be drawn into these discussions
Why put it so
Why adopt a circuitous form of speech? It is polite and it is obliging; but why do it? Why not openly say that they are much too kind and too good for US? We understand the allusion. Why disguise the phrase
Ma
you are enough to drive a saint mad, and so is Lavvy
Unfortunate Lavvy
She always comes for it. My poor child
Don't patronize ME, Ma, because I can take care of myself
I only wonder
that you found time and inclination to tear yourself from Mr and Mrs Boffin, and come to see us at all. I only wonder that our claims, contending against the superior claims of Mr and Mrs Boffin, had any weight. I feel I ought to be thankful for gaining so much, in competition with Mr and Mrs Boffin
Ma
you force me to say that I am truly sorry I did come home, and that I never will come home again, except when poor dear Pa is here. For, Pa is too magnanimous to feel envy and spite towards my generous friends, and Pa is delicate enough and gentle enough to remember the sort of little claim they thought I had upon them and the unusually trying position in which, through no act of my own, I had been placed. And I always did love poor dear Pa better than all the rest of you put together, and I always do and I always shall
I think, R.W
that if you were present, it would be a trial to your feelings to hear your wife and the mother of your family depreciated in your name. But Fate has spared you this, R.W., whatever it may have thought proper to inflict upon her
I hate the Boffins
'em the Boffins. The Boffins, the Boffins, the Boffins! And I say they are mischief-making Boffins, and I say the Boffins have set Bella against me, and I tell the Boffins to their faces:' which was not strictly the fact, but the young lady was excited: 'that they are detestable Boffins, disreputable Boffins, odious Boffins, beastly Boffins. There
Leave Me to open the door to him
we have at present no stipendiary girl to do so. We have nothing to conceal. If he sees these traces of emotion on our cheeks, let him construe them as he may
Mr Rokesmith is the bearer of a packet for Miss Bella Wilfer
Mr Boffin intended to have placed this in the carriage for you this morning. He wished you to have it, as a little keepsake he had prepared -- it is only a purse, Miss Wilfer -- but as he was disappointed in his fancy, I volunteered to come after you with it
We have been quarrelling here a little, Mr Rokesmith, but not more than we used; you know our agreeable ways among ourselves. You find me just going. Good-bye, mamma. Good- bye, Lavvy
Pardon me! Permit me to assert my natural right to escort my child to the equipage which is in waiting for her
The male domestic of Mrs Boffin
Miss Wilfer. Coming out
This shall be a joyful surprise for poor dear Pa
and I'll take it myself into the City
the male domestic of Mrs Boffin
a slap-up gal in a bang-up chariot
My dear child
Good gracious me! What a lovely woman you are! I thought you had been unkind and forgotten your mother and sister
I have just been to see them, Pa dear
Oh! and how -- how did you find your mother
Very disagreeable, Pa, and so was Lavvy
They are sometimes a little liable to it
but I hope you made allowances, Bella, my dear
No. I was disagreeable too, Pa; we were all of us disagreeable together. But I want you to come and dine with me somewhere, Pa
Why, my dear, I have already partaken of a -- if one might mention such an article in this superb chariot -- of a -- Saveloy
Oh! That's nothing, Pa
Truly, it ain't as much as one could sometimes wish it to be, my dear
Still, when circumstances over which you have no control, interpose obstacles between yourself and Small Germans, you can't do better than bring a contented mind to hear on
Saveloys
You poor good Pa! Pa, do, I beg and pray, get leave for the rest of the day, and come and pass it with me
Well, my dear, I'll cut back and ask for leave
But before you cut back
do say that you are sure I am giddy and inconsiderate, but have never really slighted you, Pa
My dear, I say it with all my heart. And might I likewise observe
that perhaps it might he calculated to attract attention, having one's hair publicly done by a lovely woman in an elegant turn-out in Fenchurch Street
I hate that Secretary for thinking it of me
and yet it seems half true
All right, my dear. Leave given at once. Really very handsomely done
Now where can we find some quiet place, Pa, in which I can wait for you while you go on an errand for me, if I send the carriage away
You see, my dear
you really have become such a very lovely woman, that it ought to he a very quiet place
Near the garden up by the Trinity House on Tower Hill
Now, Pa, attend to what I am going to say, and promise and vow to be obedient
I promise and vow, my dear
You ask no questions. You take this purse; you go to the nearest place where they keep everything of the very very best, ready made; you buy and put on, the most beautiful suit of clothes, the most beautiful hat, and the most beautiful pair of bright boots (patent leather, Pa, mind!) that are to be got for money; and you come back to me
But, my dear Bella
Take care, Pa
You have promised and vowed. It's perjury, you know
Now, Pa
take this lovely woman out to dinner
Where shall we go, my dear
Greenwich
And be sure you treat this lovely woman with everything of the best
Don't you wish, my dear
that your mother was here
No, I don't, Pa, for I like to have you all to myself to-day. I was always your little favourite at home, and you were always mine. We have run away together often, before now; haven't we, Pa
Ah, to be sure we have! Many a Sunday when your mother was -- was a little liable to it
Yes, and I am afraid I was seldom or never as good as I ought to have been, Pa. I made you carry me, over and over again, when you should have made me walk; and I often drove you in harness, when you would much rather have sat down and read your news- paper: didn't I
Sometimes, sometimes. But Lor, what a child you were! What a companion you were
Companion? That's just what I want to be to-day, Pa
You are safe to succeed, my love. Your brothers and sisters have all in their turns been companions to me, to a certain extent, but only to a certain extent. Your mother has, throughout life, been a companion that any man might -- might look up to -- and -- and commit the sayings of, to memory -- and -- form himself upon -- if he
If he liked the model
We-ell, ye-es
or perhaps I might say, if it was in him. Supposing, for instance, that a man wanted to be always marching, he would find your mother an inestimable companion. But if he had any taste for walking, or should wish at any time to break into a trot, he might sometimes find it a little difficult to keep step with your mother. Or take it this way, Bella
Supposing that a man had to go through life, we won't say with a companion, but we'll say to a tune. Very good. Supposing that the tune allotted to him was the Dead March in Saul. Well. It would be a very suitable tune for particular occasions -- none better -- but it would be difficult to keep time with in the ordinary run of domestic transactions. For instance, if he took his supper after a hard day, to the Dead March in Saul, his food might be likely to sit heavy on him. Or, if he was at any time inclined to relieve his mind by singing a comic song or dancing a hornpipe, and was obliged to do it to the Dead March in Saul, he might find himself put out in the execution of his lively intentions
Poor Pa
Now, what I will say for you, my dear
is, that you are so adaptable. So adaptable
Indeed I am afraid I have shown a wretched temper, Pa. I am afraid I have been very complaining, and very capricious. I seldom or never thought of it before. But when I sat in the carriage just now and saw you coming along the pavement, I reproached myself
Not at all, my dear. Don't speak of such a thing
I suppose, my dear
we may come to the conclusion at home, that we have lost you for good
And now, Pa
I'll make a confession to you. I am the most mercenary little wretch that ever lived in the world
I should hardly have thought it of you, my dear
I understand what you mean, Pa, but it's not that. It's not that I care for money to keep as money, but I do care so much for what it will buy
Really I think most of us do
But not to the dreadful extent that I do, Pa. O-o
I AM so mercenary
About when did you begin to feel it coming on, my dear
That's it, Pa. That's the terrible part of it. When I was at home, and only knew what it was to be poor, I grumbled but didn't so much mind. When I was at home expecting to be rich, I thought vaguely of all the great things I would do. But when I had been disappointed of my splendid fortune, and came to see it from day to day in other hands, and to have before my eyes what it could really do, then I became the mercenary little wretch I am
It's your fancy, my dear
I can assure you it's nothing of the sort, Pa
It's a fact. I am always avariciously scheming
Lor! But how
I'll tell you, Pa. I don't mind telling YOU, because we have always been favourites of each other's, and because you are not like a Pa, but more like a sort of a younger brother with a dear venerable chubbiness on him. And besides
because I have got you in my power. This is a secret expedition. If ever you tell of me, I'll tell of you. I'll tell Ma that you dined at Greenwich
Well; seriously, my dear
it might be as well not to mention it
Aha
I knew you wouldn't like it, sir! So you keep my confidence, and I'll keep yours. But betray the lovely woman, and you shall find her a serpent. Now, you may give me a kiss, Pa, and I should like to give your hair a turn, because it has been dreadfully neglected in my absence
I have made up my mind that I must have money, Pa. I feel that I can't beg it, borrow it, or steal it; and so I have resolved that I must marry it
My de-ar Bella
Have resolved, I say, Pa, that to get money I must marry money. In consequence of which, I am always looking out for money to captivate
My de-a-r Bella
Yes, Pa, that is the state of the case. If ever there was a mercenary plotter whose thoughts and designs were always in her mean occupation, I am the amiable creature. But I don't care. I hate and detest being poor, and I won't be poor if I can marry money. Now you are deliciously fluffy, Pa, and in a state to astonish the waiter and pay the bill
But, my dear Bella, this is quite alarming at your age
I told you so, Pa, but you wouldn't believe it
Isn't it shocking
It would be quite so, if you fully knew what you said, my dear, or meant it
Well, Pa, I can only tell you that I mean nothing else. Talk to me of love
Talk to me of fiery dragons! But talk to me of poverty and wealth, and there indeed we touch upon realities
My De-ar, this is becoming Awful
Pa, tell me. Did you marry money
You know I didn't, my dear
I didn't mean that last touch, Pa; it was only said in joke. Now mind! You are not to tell of me, and I'll not tell of you. And more than that; I promise to have no secrets from you, Pa, and you may make certain that, whatever mercenary things go on, I shall always tell you all about them in strict confidence
Now, all the rest of this, Pa
is for you, to buy presents with for them at home, and to pay bills with, and to divide as you like, and spend exactly as you think proper. Last of all take notice, Pa, that it's not the fruit of any avaricious scheme. Perhaps if it was, your little mercenary wretch of a daughter wouldn't make so free with it
Ah, poor little Pa! Ah, poor dear struggling shabby little Pa
Contradictory things to wish
but my life and fortunes are so contradictory altogether that what can I expect myself to be
Mrs Boffin will be very well pleased
Show him in
I am glad to see you
I have been expecting you
Then he is well now
No he ain't
must have took 'em from the Minders
But as long as they strikes out'ards, sir
they ain't so much. It's their striking in'ards that's to be kep off
He called it something as wos wery long for spots
No
ever so much longer than THEM, sir
Mrs Boffin will be sorry to hear this
Mrs Higden said so, sir, when she kep it from her, hoping as Our Johnny would work round
But I hope he will
I hope so
It all depends on their striking in'ards
Last night
when I was a-turning at the wheel pretty late, the mangle seemed to go like Our Johnny's breathing. It begun beautiful, then as it went out it shook a little and got unsteady, then as it took the turn to come home it had a rattle-like and lumbered a bit, then it come smooth, and so it went on till I scarce know'd which was mangle and which was Our Johnny. Nor Our Johnny, he scarce know'd either, for sometimes when the mangle lumbers he says, "Me choking, Granny!" and Mrs Higden holds him up in her lap and says to me "Bide a bit, Sloppy," and we all stops together. And when Our Johnny gets his breathing again, I turns again, and we all goes on together
This is unfortunate
I must go and break it to Mrs Boffin. Stay you here, Sloppy
Ah, my poor dear pretty little John Harmon
Yes mum
You don't think he is in a very, very bad way, do you
So bad as that
And Betty Higden not to tell me of it sooner
I think she might have been mistrustful, mum
Of what, for Heaven's sake
I think she might have been mistrustful, mum
of standing in Our Johnny's light. There's so much trouble in illness, and so much expense, and she's seen such a lot of its being objected to
But she never can have thought
that I would grudge the dear child anything
No mum, but she might have thought (as a habit-like) of its standing in Johnny's light, and might have tried to bring him through it unbeknownst
It's not a right place for the poor child to stay in
Tell us, dear Mr Rokesmith, what to do for the best
Pray take me
And how's my boy, Betty
He's bad! He's bad
I begin to be afeerd he'll not be yours any more than mine. All others belonging to him have gone to the Power and the Glory, and I have a mind that they're drawing him to them -- leading him away
No, no, no
I don't know why else he clenches his little hand as if it had hold of a finger that I can't see. Look at it
It's always so. It don't mind me
Is he asleep
No, I think not. You're not asleep, my Johnny
No
Here's the lady, Johnny. And the horse
Who is the boofer lady
Now, my good dear Betty
we have come to remove Johnny from this cottage to where he can be taken better care of
Stand away from me every one of ye
I see what ye mean now. Let me go my way, all of ye. I'd sooner kill the Pretty, and kill myself
Stay, stay
You don't understand
I understand too well. I know too much about it, sir. I've run from it too many a year. No! Never for me, nor for the child, while there's water enough in England to cover us
crops up
It's been chasing me all my life, but it shall never take me nor mine alive
I've done with ye. I'd have fastened door and window and starved out, afore I'd ever have let ye in, if I had known what ye came for
Maybe my fears has put me wrong. If they have so, tell me, and the good Lord forgive me! I'm quick to take this fright, I know, and my head is summ'at light with wearying and watching
There, there, there
Come, come! Say no more of it, Betty. It was a mistake, a mistake. Any one of us might have made it in your place, and felt just as you do
The Lord bless ye
Now, see, Betty
what I really did mean, and what I should have begun by saying out, if I had only been a little wiser and handier. We want to move Johnny to a place where there are none but children; a place set up on purpose for sick children; where the good doctors and nurses pass their lives with children, talk to none but children, touch none but children, comfort and cure none but children
Is there really such a place
Yes, Betty, on my word, and you shall see it. If my home was a better place for the dear boy, I'd take him to it; but indeed indeed it's not
You shall take him
where you will, my deary. I am not so hard, but that I believe your face and voice, and I will, as long as I can see and hear
This should have been days ago. Too late
I see you are not afraid to leave the dear child here, Betty
No, ma'am. Most willingly, most thankfully, with all my heart and soul
This should have been days ago. Too late
What is it, Johnny
Him
Those
A kiss for the boofer lady
But I do thank you, Mr Rokesmith
and I thank you most kindly. You love children
I hope everybody does
They ought
but we don't all of us do what we ought, do us
Some among us supply the short-comings of the rest. You have loved children well, Mr Boffin has told me
Do I
It sounds to me so. Were you one of many children
An only child
No there was another. Dead long ago
Father or mother alive
Dead
And the rest of your relations
Dead -- if I ever had any living. I never heard of any
Now, don't mind an old lady's talk
but tell me. Are you quite sure, Mr Rokesmith, that you have never had a disappointment in love
Quite sure. Why do you ask me
Why, for this reason. Sometimes you have a kind of kept-down manner with you, which is not like your age. You can't be thirty
I am not yet thirty
No, don't go
because we are coming to business, instead of having begun it, and you belong to it as much now, my dear Bella, as I do. But I want my Noddy to consult with us. Would somebody be so good as find my Noddy for me
Now, you come and sit by me, my dear
and Noddy, you sit here, and Mr Rokesmith you sit there. Now, you see, what I want to talk about, is this. Mr and Mrs Milvey have sent me the kindest note possible (which Mr Rokesmith just now read to me out aloud, for I ain't good at handwritings), offering to find me another little child to name and educate and bring up. Well. This has set me thinking
And she is a steam-ingein at it
when she once begins. It mayn't be so easy to start her; but once started, she's a ingein
This has set me thinking, I say
and I have thought two things. First of all, that I have grown timid of reviving John Harmon's name. It's an unfortunate name, and I fancy I should reproach myself if I gave it to another dear child, and it proved again unlucky
Now, whether
whether one might call that a superstition
It is a matter of feeling with Mrs Boffin
The name has always been unfortunate. It has now this new unfortunate association connected with it. The name has died out. Why revive it? Might I ask Miss Wilfer what she thinks
It has not been a fortunate name for me
or at least it was not, until it led to my being here -- but that is not the point in my thoughts. As we had given the name to the poor child, and as the poor child took so lovingly to me, I think I should feel jealous of calling another child by it. I think I should feel as if the name had become endeared to me, and I had no right to use it so
And that's your opinion
I say again, it is a matter of feeling
I think Miss Wilfer's feeling very womanly and pretty
Now, give us your opinion, Noddy
My opinion, old lady
is your opinion
Then
we agree not to revive John Harmon's name, but to let it rest in the grave. It is, as Mr Rokesmith says, a matter of feeling, but Lor how many matters ARE matters of feeling! Well; and so I come to the second thing I have thought of. You must know, Bella, my dear, and Mr Rokesmith, that when I first named to my husband my thoughts of adopting a little orphan boy in remembrance of John Harmon, I further named to my husband that it was comforting to think that how the poor boy would be benefited by John's own money, and protected from John's own forlornness
Hear, hear
So she did. Ancoar
No, not Ancoar, Noddy, my dear
because I am going to say something else. I meant that, I am sure, as I much as I still mean it. But this little death has made me ask myself the question, seriously, whether I wasn't too bent upon pleasing myself. Else why did I seek out so much for a pretty child, and a child quite to my liking? Wanting to do good, why not do it for its own sake, and put my tastes and likings by
Perhaps
perhaps, in reviving the name, you would not have liked to give it to a less interesting child than the original. He interested you very much
Well, my dear
it's kind of you to find that reason out, and I hope it may have been so, and indeed to a certain extent I believe it was so, but I am afraid not to the whole extent. However, that don't come in question now, because we have done with the name
Laid it up as a remembrance
Much better said, my dear; laid it up as a remembrance. Well then; I have been thinking if I take any orphan to provide for, let it not be a pet and a plaything for me, but a creature to be helped for its own sake
Not pretty then
No
Nor prepossessing then
No
Not necessarily so. That's as it may happen. A well-disposed boy comes in my way who may be even a little wanting in such advantages for getting on in life, but is honest and industrious and requires a helping hand and deserves it. If I am very much in earnest and quite determined to be unselfish, let me take care of HIM
Shall he be brought here, ma'am
Yes
And how is Betty, my good fellow
Thankee, mum
she do pretty nicely, and sending her dooty and many thanks for the tea and all faviours and wishing to know the family's healths
Have you just come, Sloppy
Yes, mum
Then you have not had your dinner yet
un off of meat and beer and pudding -- no: there was four of 'em, for I reckoned 'em up when I had 'em; meat one, beer two, vegetables three, and which was four?-- Why, pudding, HE was four
How are the two poor little Minders
Striking right out, mum, and coming round beautiful
Sloppy
Yes, mum
Come forward, Sloppy. Should you like to dine here every day
Off of all four on 'em, mum? O mum
Yes. And should you like to be always taken care of here, if you were industrious and deserving
Oh, mum!-- But there's Mrs Higden
There's Mrs Higden. Mrs Higden goes before all. None can ever be better friends to me than Mrs Higden's been. And she must be turned for, must Mrs Higden. Where would Mrs Higden be if she warn't turned for
You are as right as right can be, Sloppy
and far be it from me to tell you otherwise. It shall be seen to. If Betty Higden can be turned for all the same, you shall come here and be taken care of for life, and be made able to keep her in other ways than the turning
Even as to that, mum
the turning might be done in the night, don't you see? I could be here in the day, and turn in the night. I don't want no sleep, I don't. Or even if I any ways should want a wink or two
I could take 'em turning. I've took 'em turning many a time, and enjoyed 'em wonderful
that he thought it was Cats
Emma Peecher, wilt thou be my own
this
I wonder
what they call Hexam's sister
Well, Mary Anne
She is named Lizzie, ma'am
She can hardly be named Lizzie, I think, Mary Anne
Is Lizzie a Christian name, Mary Anne
No, it is a corruption, Miss Peecher
Who gave her that name
I mean of what name is it a corruption
Elizabeth, or Eliza, Miss Peecher
Right, Mary Anne. Whether there were any Lizzies in the early Christian Church must be considered very doubtful, very doubtful
Speaking correctly, we say, then, that Hexam's sister is called Lizzie; not that she is named so. Do we not, Mary Anne
We do, Miss Peecher
And where
where does this young woman, who is called but not named Lizzie, live? Think, now, before answering
In Church Street, Smith Square, by Mill Bank, ma'am
In Church Street, Smith Square, by Mill Bank
She has a place of trust at an outfitter's in the City, ma'am
Oh
At an outfitter's in the City. Ye-es
And Charley
I mean Hexam, Miss Peecher
I should think you did, Mary Anne. I am glad to hear you do. And Hexam
Says
that he is not pleased with his sister, and that his sister won't be guided by his advice, and persists in being guided by somebody else's; and that
Mr Headstone coming across the garden
You have answered very well, Mary Anne. You are forming an excellent habit of arranging your thoughts clearly. That will do
Good evening, Miss Peecher
Good evening, Mr Headstone. Mary Anne, a chair
Thank you
This is but a flying visit. I have looked in, on my way, to ask a kindness of you as a neighbour
Did you say on your way, Mr Headstone
On my way to -- where I am going
Church Street, Smith Square, by Mill Bank
Charley Hexam has gone to get a book or two he wants, and will probably be back before me. As we leave my house empty, I took the liberty of telling him I would leave the key here. Would you kindly allow me to do so
Certainly, Mr Headstone. Going for an evening walk, sir
Partly for a walk, and partly for -- on business
Business in Church Street, Smith Square, by Mill Bank
Having said which
I must be already going. There is nothing I can do for you, Miss Peecher
Thank you, Mr Headstone. In which direction
In the direction of Westminster
Mill Bank
No, thank you, Mr Headstone; I'll not trouble you
You couldn't trouble me
Ah
but you can trouble ME
Oho
it's you, is it? I know your tricks and your manners, my friend
Hexam's sister
is not come home yet
You are quite a conjuror
I will wait, if you please, for I want to speak to her
Do you
Sit down. I hope it's mutual
I hope you don't imply that my visit will be unacceptable to Hexam's sister
There! Don't call her that. I can't bear you to call her that
for I don't like Hexam
Indeed
No
Selfish. Thinks only of himself. The way with all of you
The way with all of us? Then you don't like ME
So-so
Don't know much about you
But I was not aware it was the way with all of us
Won't you say, some of us
Meaning
every one of you, but you. Hah! Now look this lady in the face. This is Mrs Truth. The Honourable. Full-dressed
I stand the Honourable Mrs T. on my bench in this corner against the wall, where her blue eyes can shine upon you
and I defy you to tell me, with Mrs T. for a witness, what you have come here for
To see Hexam's sister
You don't say so
But on whose account
Her own
O Mrs T
You hear him
To reason with her
for her own sake
Oh Mrs T
For her own sake
and for her brother's, and as a perfectly disinterested person
Really, Mrs T
since it comes to this, we must positively turn you with your face to the wall
Here's a perfectly disinterested person, Lizzie dear
come to talk with you, for your own sake and your brother's. Think of that. I am sure there ought to be no third party present at anything so very kind and so very serious; and so, if you'll remove the third party upstairs, my dear, the third party will retire
The third party hobbles awfully, you know, when she's left to herself
her back being so bad, and her legs so queer; so she can't retire gracefully unless you help her, Lizzie
She can do no better than stay where she is
From Charley, sir
Strictly speaking
I come from Charley, because I left him only a little while ago; but I am not commissioned by Charley. I come of my own spontaneous act
The fact is
the truth is, that Charley, having no secrets from me (to the best of my belief), has confided the whole of this matter to me
what matter, sir
I thought
that it might be so superfluous as to be almost impertinent, to enter upon a definition of it. My allusion was to this matter of your having put aside your brother's plans for you, and given the preference to those of Mr -- I believe the name is Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Your brother's plans were communicated to me when he first had them in his thoughts. In point of fact he spoke to me about them when I was last here -- when we were walking back together, and when I -- when the impression was fresh upon me of having seen his sister
I approved of his idea
both because your brother ought naturally to be the originator of any such scheme, and because I hoped to be able to promote it. I should have had inexpressible pleasure, I should have taken inexpressible interest, in promoting it. Therefore I must acknowledge that when your brother was disappointed, I too was disappointed. I wish to avoid reservation or concealment, and I fully acknowledge that
I am a man of strong feelings, and I have strongly felt this disappointment. I do strongly feel it. I don't show what I feel; some of us are obliged habitually to keep it down. To keep it down. But to return to your brother. He has taken the matter so much to heart that he has remonstrated (in my presence he remonstrated) with Mr Eugene Wrayburn, if that be the name. He did so, quite ineffectually. As any one not blinded to the real character of Mr -- Mr Eugene Wrayburn -- would readily suppose
Finally, I resolved to come here alone, and appeal to you. I resolved to come here alone, and entreat you to retract the course you have chosen, and instead of confiding in a mere stranger -- a person of most insolent behaviour to your brother and others -- to prefer your brother and your brother's friend
I cannot doubt, Mr Headstone, that your visit is well meant. You have been so good a friend to Charley that I have no right to doubt it. I have nothing to tell Charley, but that I accepted the help to which he so much objects before he made any plans for me; or certainly before I knew of any. It was considerately and delicately offered, and there were reasons that had weight with me which should be as dear to Charley as to me. I have no more to say to Charley on this subject
I should have told Charley, if he had come to me
that Jenny and I find our teacher very able and very patient, and that she takes great pains with us. So much so, that we have said to her we hope in a very little while to be able to go on by ourselves. Charley knows about teachers, and I should also have told him, for his satisfaction, that ours comes from an institution where teachers are regularly brought up
I should like to ask you
I should like to ask you, if I may without offence, whether you would have objected -- no; rather, I should like to say, if I may without offence, that I wish I had had the opportunity of coming here with your brother and devoting my poor abilities and experience to your service
Thank you, Mr Headstone
But I fear
that my humble services would not have found much favour with you
There is only one thing more I had to say, but it is the most important. There is a reason against this matter, there is a personal relation concerned in this matter, not yet explained to you. It might -- I don't say it would -- it might -- induce you to think differently. To proceed under the present circumstances is out of the question. Will you please come to the understanding that there shall be another interview on the subject
With Charley, Mr Headstone
With -- well
yes! Say with him too. Will you please come to the understanding that there must be another interview under more favourable circumstances, before the whole case can be submitted
I don't
understand your meaning, Mr Headstone
Limit my meaning for the present
to the whole case being submitted to you in another interview
What case, Mr Headstone? What is wanting to it
You -- you shall be informed in the other interview
I -- I leave it all incomplete! There is a spell upon me, I think
Good-night
And so you would be rid of him
Not so easily
He wouldn't blow up alone. He'd carry me up with him. I know his tricks and his manners
Would he want to hurt you, do you mean
Mightn't exactly want to do it, my dear
but a lot of gunpowder among lighted lucifer-matches in the next room might almost as well be here
He is a very strange man
I wish he was so very strange a man as to be a total stranger
Not now, Lizzie, dear
let us have a talk by the fire
Let us have a talk
about Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Why about Mr Wrayburn
For no better reason than because I'm in the humour. I wonder whether he's rich
No, not rich
Poor
I think so, for a gentleman
Ah! To be sure! Yes, he's a gentleman. Not of our sort; is he
Oh no, oh no
When He turns up, he shan't be a gentleman; I'll very soon send him packing, if he is. However, he's not Mr Wrayburn; I haven't captivated HIM. I wonder whether anybody has, Lizzie
It is very likely
Is it very likely? I wonder who
Is it not very likely that some lady has been taken by him, and that he may love her dearly
Perhaps. I don't know. What would you think of him, Lizzie, if you were a lady
I a lady
Such a fancy
Yes. But say: just as a fancy, and for instance
I a lady! I, a poor girl who used to row poor father on the river. I, who had rowed poor father out and home on the very night when I saw him for the first time. I, who was made so timid by his looking at me, that I got up and went out
He did look at you, even that night, though you were not a lady
I a lady
I, with poor father's grave not even cleared of undeserved stain and shame, and he trying to clear it for me! I a lady
Only as a fancy, and for instance
Too much, Jenny, dear, too much! My fancy is not able to get that far
But I am in the humour, and I must be humoured, Lizzie, because after all I am a poor little thing, and have had a hard day with my bad child. Look in the fire, as I like to hear you tell how you used to do when you lived in that dreary old house that had once been a windmill. Look in the -- what was its name when you told fortunes with your brother that I DON'T like
The hollow down by the flare
Ah! That's the name! You can find a lady there, I know
More easily than I can make one of such material as myself, Jenny
Well
We have found our lady
Shall she be rich
She had better be, as he's poor
She is very rich. Shall she be handsome
Even you can be that, Lizzie, so she ought to be
She is very handsome
What does she say about him
She is glad, glad, to be rich, that he may have the money. She is glad, glad, to be beautiful, that he may be proud of her. Her poor heart
Eh? Her poor hear
Her heart -- is given him, with all its love and truth. She would joyfully die with him, or, better than that, die for him. She knows he has failings, but she thinks they have grown up through his being like one cast away, for the want of something to trust in, and care for, and think well of. And she says, that lady rich and beautiful that I can never come near, "Only put me in that empty place, only try how little I mind myself, only prove what a world of things I will do and bear for you, and I hope that you might even come to be much better than you are, through me who am so much worse, and hardly worth the thinking of beside you
O me, O me, O me
In pain, dear Jenny
Yes, but not the old pain. Lay me down, lay me down. Don't go out of my sight to-night. Lock the door and keep close to me. Then turning away her face, she said in a whisper to herself, 'My Lizzie, my poor Lizzie! O my blessed children, come back in the long bright slanting rows, and come for her, not me. She wants help more than I, my blessed children
Is your father at home
I think he is
come in
Take a seat by the fire
men of your calling are always welcome here
Thankee
Might you be looking for a Boarding-House
I don't rightly know my plans yet
You ain't looking for a Leaving Shop
No
No
you've got too much of an outfit on you for that. But if you should want either, this is both
Ay, ay
I know. I've been here before
Did you Leave anything when you were here before
No
I am pretty sure you never boarded here
No
What DID you do here when you were here before
For I don't remember you
It's not at all likely you should. I only stood at the door, one night -- on the lower step there -- while a shipmate of mine looked in to speak to your father. I remember the place well
Might that have been long ago
Ay, a goodish bit ago. When I came off my last voyage
Then you have not been to sea lately
No. Been in the sick bay since then, and been employed ashore
Then, to be sure, that accounts for your hands
You're a good observer. Yes. That accounts for my hands
Will your father be long
I don't know. I can't say
As you supposed he was at home, it would seem that he has just gone out? How's that
I supposed he had come home
Oh! You supposed he had come home? Then he has been some time out? How's that
I don't want to deceive you. Father's on the river in his boat
At the old work
I don't know what you mean
What on earth d'ye want
I don't want to hurt your father. I don't want to say I might, if I chose. I want to speak to him. Not much in that, is there? There shall be no secrets from you; you shall be by. And plainly, Miss Riderhood, there's nothing to be got out of me, or made of me. I am not good for the Leaving Shop, I am not good for the Boarding-House, I am not good for anything in your way to the extent of sixpenn'orth of halfpence. Put the idea aside, and we shall get on together
But you're a seafaring man
Yes and no. I have been, and I may be again. But I am not for you. Won't you take my word for it
Won't you take my word for it
To wile away the time till your father comes
pray is there much robbing and murdering of seamen about the water-side now
No
Any
Complaints of that sort are sometimes made, about Ratcliffe and Wapping and up that way. But who knows how many are true
To be sure. And it don't seem necessary
That's what I say
Where's the reason for it? Bless the sailors, it ain't as if they ever could keep what they have, without it
You're right. Their money may be soon got out of them, without violence
Of course it may
and then they ship again and get more. And the best thing for 'em, too, to ship again as soon as ever they can be brought to it. They're never so well off as when they're afloat
I'll tell you why I ask
I was once beset that way myself, and left for dead
No
Where did it happen
It happened
it happened somewhere about here as I reckon. I don't think it can have been a mile from here
Were you drunk
I was muddled, but not with fair drinking. I had not been drinking, you understand. A mouthful did it
Fair trade is one thing
but that's another. No one has a right to carry on with Jack in THAT way
The sentiment does you credit
the more so, as I believe it's not your father's.-- Yes, I had a bad time of it, that time. I lost everything, and had a sharp struggle for my life, weak as I was
Did you get the parties punished
A tremendous punishment followed
but it was not of my bringing about
Of whose, then
Anyways
I am glad punishment followed, and I say so. Fair trade with seafaring men gets a bad name through deeds of violence. I am as much against deeds of violence being done to seafaring men, as seafaring men can be themselves. I am of the same opinion as my mother was, when she was living. Fair trade, my mother used to say, but no robbery and no blows
Now, Poll Parrot
Blest if I believe such a Poll Parrot as you was ever learned to speak
What are you Poll Parroting at now? Ain't you got nothing to do but fold your arms and stand a Poll Parroting all night
Let her alone
She was only speaking to me
Let her alone too
Do you know she's my daughter
Yes
And don't you know that I won't have no Poll Parroting on the part of my daughter? No, nor yet that I won't take no Poll Parroting from no man? And who may YOU be, and what may YOU want
How can I tell you until you are silent
Well
I am willing to be silent for the purpose of hearing. But don't Poll Parrot me
Are you thirsty, you
Why nat'rally
ain't I always thirsty
What will you drink
Sherry wine
if you're capable of it
With the cork undrawn
I'll take my Alfred David
that you know a move. Do I know YOU? N -- n -- no, I don't know you
No, you don't know me
There's small glasses on the shelf
Give me the one without a foot. I gets my living by the sweat of my brow, and it's good enough for ME
On Leaving
What's the matter
Why, I know that knife
Yes, I dare say you do
That there knife
Stop
I was going to drink to your daughter. Your health, Miss Riderhood
That knife was the knife of a seaman named George Radfoot
It was
That seaman was well beknown to me
He was
What's come to him
Death has come to him. Death came to him in an ugly shape. He looked
very horrible after it
Arter what
After he was killed
Killed? Who killed him
You don't mean to tell a honest man
It's my belief as this here coat was George Radfoot's too
You are right. He wore it the last time you ever saw him, and the last time you ever will see him -- in this world
It's my belief you mean to tell me to my face you killed him
Wish I may die if I know what to be up to with this chap
Let's know what to make of you. Say something plain
I will
What a liar you are
And when you went to that lawyer yonder in the Temple with that invented story
you might have had your strong suspicions of a friend of your own, you know. I think you had, you know
Me my suspicions? Of what friend
Tell me again whose knife was this
It was possessed by, and was the property of -- him as I have made mention on
Tell me again whose coat was this
That there article of clothing likeways belonged to, and was wore by -- him as I have made mention on
I suspect that you gave him the credit of the deed, and of keeping cleverly out of the way. But there was small cleverness in HIS keeping out of the way. The cleverness would have been, to have got back for one single instant to the light of the sun
Things is come to a pretty pass
when bullyers as is wearing dead men's clothes, and bullyers as is armed with dead men's knives, is to come into the houses of honest live men, getting their livings by the sweats of their brows, and is to make these here sort of charges with no rhyme and no reason, neither the one nor yet the other! Why should I have had my suspicions of him
Because you knew him
because you had been one with him, and knew his real character under a fair outside; because on the night which you had afterwards reason to believe to be the very night of the murder, he came in here, within an hour of his having left his ship in the docks, and asked you in what lodgings he could find room. Was there no stranger with him
I'll take my world-without-end everlasting Alfred David that you warn't with him
You talk big, you do, but things look pretty black against yourself, to my thinking. You charge again' me that George Radfoot got lost sight of, and was no more thought of. What's that for a sailor? Why there's fifty such, out of sight and out of mind, ten times as long as him -- through entering in different names, re-shipping when the out'ard voyage is made, and what not -- a turning up to light every day about here, and no matter made of it. Ask my daughter. You could go on Poll Parroting enough with her, when I warn't come in: Poll Parrot a little with her on this pint. You and your suspicions of my suspicions of him! What are my suspicions of you? You tell me George Radfoot got killed. I ask you who done it and how you know it. You carry his knife and you wear his coat. I ask you how you come by 'em? Hand over that there bottle
And you
if it warn't wasting good sherry wine on you, I'd chuck this at you, for Poll Parroting with this man. It's along of Poll Parroting that such like as him gets their suspicions, whereas I gets mine by argueyment, and being nat'rally a honest man, and sweating away at the brow as a honest man ought
Well? Have you finished
No
I ain't. Far from it. Now then! I want to know how George Radfoot come by his death, and how you come by his kit
If you ever do know, you won't know now
And next I want to know
whether you mean to charge that what-you-may-call-it-murder
Harmon murder, father
No Poll Parroting
Keep your mouth shut!-- I want to know, you sir, whether you charge that there crime on George Radfoot
If you ever do know, you won't know now
Perhaps you done it yourself
I alone know
the mysteries of that crime. I alone know that your trumped-up story cannot possibly be true. I alone know that it must be altogether false, and that you must know it to be altogether false. I come here to-night to tell you so much of what I know, and no more
Shut the shop-door
And turn the key and stand by it! If you know all this, you sir
why han't you gone to Lawyer Lightwood
That, also, is alone known to myself
Don't you know that, if you didn't do the deed, what you say you could tell is worth from five to ten thousand pound
I know it very well, and when I claim the money you shall share it
I know it
as well as I know that you and George Radfoot were one together in more than one dark business; and as well as I know that you, Roger Riderhood, conspired against an innocent man for blood-money; and as well as I know that I can -- and that I swear I will!-- give you up on both scores, and be the proof against you in my own person, if you defy me
Father
Don't defy him! Give way to him! Don't get into more trouble, father
Will you leave off a Poll Parroting, I ask you
You sir! You han't said what you want of me. Is it fair, is it worthy of yourself, to talk of my defying you afore ever you say what you want of me
I don't want much
This accusation of yours must not be left half made and half unmade. What was done for the blood-money must be thoroughly undone
Well; but Shipmate
Don't call me Shipmate
Captain, then
there! You won't object to Captain. It's a honourable title, and you fully look it. Captain! Ain't the man dead? Now I ask you fair. Ain't Gaffer dead
Well
yes, he is dead. What then
Can words hurt a dead man, Captain? I only ask you fair
They can hurt the memory of a dead man, and they can hurt his living children. How many children had this man
Meaning Gaffer, Captain
Of whom else are we speaking
I have heard of a daughter, and a son. I ask for information; I ask YOUR daughter; I prefer to speak to her. What children did Hexam leave
Why the devil don't you answer the Captain? You can Poll Parrot enough when you ain't wanted to Poll Parrot, you perwerse jade
It is dreadful that any stigma should attach to them
Dreadful! Unforeseen? How could it be foreseen
Where do they live
I know that
for I have been to the place they dwelt in, at the time of the inquest. Could you quietly find out for me where she lives now
I HAVE actiwally forfeited the good opinions of several persons -- even your own, Captain, if I understand your words -- but I'd sooner do it than be forswore. There; if that's conspiracy, call me conspirator
You shall sign
a statement that it was all utterly false, and the poor girl shall have it. I will bring it with me for your signature, when I come again
When might you be expected, Captain
Quite soon enough for you. I shall not disappoint you; don't be afraid
Might you be inclined to leave any name, Captain
No, not at all. I have no such intention
Shall" is summ'at of a hard word, Captain
When you say a man "shall" sign this and that and t'other, Captain, you order him about in a grand sort of a way. Don't it seem so to yourself
Father, father
don't! Don't get into trouble any more
Hear me out, Captain, hear me out! All I was wishing to mention, Captain, afore you took your departer
was, your handsome words relating to the reward
When I claim it
you dog
you shall share it
What a liar you are
Thus much I know
I have never been here since that night, and never was here before that night, but thus much I recognize. I wonder which way did we take when we came out of that shop. We turned to the right as I have turned, but I can recall no more. Did we go by this alley? Or down that little lane
I remember there were poles pushed out of upper windows on which clothes were drying, and I remember a low public-house, and the sound flowing down a narrow passage belonging to it of the scraping of a fiddle and the shuffling of feet. But here are all these things in the lane, and here are all these things in the alley. And I have nothing else in my mind but a wall, a dark doorway, a flight of stairs, and a room
This is like what I have read in narratives of escape from prison
where the little track of the fugitives in the night always seems to take the shape of the great round world, on which they wander; as if it were a secret law
I have no clue to the scene of my death
Not that it matters now. But having risked discovery by venturing here at all, I should have been glad to track some part of the way
It is a sensation not experienced by many mortals
But this is the fanciful side of the situation. It has a real side, so difficult that, though I think of it every day, I never thoroughly think it out. Now, let me determine to think it out as I walk home. I know I evade it, as many men -- perhaps most men -- do evade thinking their way through their greatest perplexity. I will try to pin myself to mine. Don't evade it, John Harmon; don't evade it; think it out! 'When I came to England, attracted to the country with which I had none but most miserable associations, by the accounts of my fine inheritance that found me abroad, I came back, shrinking from my father's money, shrinking from my father's memory, mistrustful of being forced on a mercenary wife, mistrustful of my father's intention in thrusting that marriage on me, mistrustful that I was already growing avaricious, mistrustful that I was slackening in gratitude to the two dear noble honest friends who had made the only sunlight in my childish life or that of my hearthroken sister. I came back, timid, divided in my mind, afraid of myself and everybody here, knowing of nothing but wretchedness that my father's wealth had ever brought about. Now, stop, and so far think it out, John Harmon. Is that so? That is exactly so. 

'On board serving as third mate was George Radfoot. I knew nothing of him. His name first became known to me about a week before we sailed, through my being accosted by one of the ship- agent's clerks as "Mr Radfoot." It was one day when I had gone aboard to look to my preparations, and the clerk, coming behind me as I stood on deck, tapped me on the shoulder, and said, "Mr Rad-foot, look here," referring to some papers that he had in his hand. And my name first became known to Radfoot, through another clerk within a day or two, and while the ship was yet in port, coming up behind him, tapping him on the shoulder and beginning, "I beg your pardon, Mr Harmon --." I believe we were alike in bulk and stature but not otherwise, and that we were not strikingly alike, even in those respects, when we were together and could be compared. 

'However, a sociable word or two on these mistakes became an easy introduction between us, and the weather was hot, and he helped me to a cool cabin on deck alongside his own, and his first school had been at Brussels as mine had been, and he had learnt French as I had learnt it, and he had a little history of himself to relate -- God only knows how much of it true, and how much of it false -- that had its likeness to mine. I had been a seaman too. So we got to be confidential together, and the more easily yet, because he and every one on board had known by general rumour what I was making the voyage to England for. By such degrees and means, he came to the knowledge of my uneasiness of mind, and of its setting at that time in the direction of desiring to see and form some judgment of my allotted wife, before she could possibly know me for myself; also to try Mrs Boffin and give her a glad surprise. So the plot was made out of our getting common sailors' dresses (as he was able to guide me about London), and throwing ourselves in Bella Wilfer's neighbourhood, and trying to put ourselves in her way, and doing whatever chance might favour on the spot, and seeing what came of it. If nothing came of it, I should be no worse off, and there would merely be a short delay in my presenting myself to Lightwood. I have all these facts right? Yes. They are all accurately right. 

'His advantage in all this was, that for a time I was to be lost. It might be for a day or for two days, but I must be lost sight of on landing, or there would be recognition, anticipation, and failure. Therefore, I disembarked with my valise in my hand -- as Potterson the steward and Mr Jacob Kibble my fellow-passenger afterwards remembered -- and waited for him in the dark by that very Limehouse Church which is now behind me. 

'As I had always shunned the port of London, I only knew the church through his pointing out its spire from on board. Perhaps I might recall, if it were any good to try, the way by which I went to it alone from the river; but how we two went from it to Riderhood's shop, I don't know -- any more than I know what turns we took and doubles we made, after we left it. The way was purposely confused, no doubt. 

'But let me go on thinking the facts out, and avoid confusing them with my speculations. Whether be took me by a straight way or a crooked way, what is that to the purpose now? Steady, John Harmon. 

'When we stopped at Riderhood's, and he asked that scoundrel a question or two, purporting to refer only to the lodging-houses in which there was accommodation for us, had I the least suspicion of him? None. Certainly none until afterwards when I held the clue. I think he must have got from Riderhood in a paper, the drug, or whatever it was, that afterwards stupefied me, but I am far from sure. All I felt safe in charging on him to-night, was old companionship in villainy between them. Their undisguised intimacy, and the character I now know Riderhood to bear, made that not at all adventurous. But I am not clear about the drug. Thinking out the circumstances on which I found my suspicion, they are only two. One: I remember his changing a small folded paper from one pocket to another, after we came out, which he had not touched before. Two: I now know Riderhood to have been previously taken up for being concerned in the robbery of an unlucky seaman, to whom some such poison had been given. 

'It is my conviction that we cannot have gone a mile from that shop, before we came to the wall, the dark doorway, the flight of stairs, and the room. The night was particularly dark and it rained hard. As I think the circumstances back, I hear the rain splashing on the stone pavement of the passage, whch was not under cover. The room overlooked the river, or a dock, or a creek, and the tide was out. Being possessed of the time down to that point, I know by the hour that it must have been about low water; but while the coffee was getting ready, I drew back the curtain (a dark-brown curtain), and, looking out, knew by the kind of reflection below, of the few neighbouring lights, that they were reflected in tidal mud. 

'He had carried under his arm a canvas bag, containing a suit of his clothes. I had no change of outer clothes with me, as I was to buy slops. "You are very wet, Mr Harmon,"-- I can hear him saying --"and I am quite dry under this good waterproof coat. Put on these clothes of mine. You may find on trying them that they will answer your purpose to-morrow, as well as the slops you mean to buy, or better. While you change, I'll hurry the hot coffee." When he came back, I had his clothes on, and there was a black man with him, wearing a linen jacket, like a steward, who put the smoking coffee on the table in a tray and never looked at me. I am so far literal and exact? Literal and exact, I am certain. 

'Now, I pass to sick and deranged impressions; they are so strong, that I rely upon them; but there are spaces between them that I know nothing about, and they are not pervaded by any idea of time. 

'I had drank some coffee, when to my sense of sight he began to swell immensely, and something urged me to rush at him. We had a struggle near the door. He got from me, through my not knowing where to strike, in the whirling round of the room, and the flashing of flames of fire between us. I dropped down. Lying helpless on the ground, I was turned over by a foot. I was dragged by the neck into a corner. I heard men speak together. I was turned over by other feet. I saw a figure like myself lying dressed in my clothes on a bed. What might have been, for anything I knew, a silence of days, weeks, months, years, was broken by a violent wrestling of men all over the room. The figure like myself was assailed, and my valise was in its hand. I was trodden upon and fallen over. I heard a noise of blows, and thought it was a wood-cutter cutting down a tree. I could not have said that my name was John Harmon -- I could not have thought it -- I didn't know it -- but when I heard the blows, I thought of the wood-cutter and his axe, and had some dead idea that I was lying in a forest. 

'This is still correct? Still correct, with the exception that I cannot possibly express it to myself without using the word I. But it was not I. There was no such thing as I, within my knowledge. 

'It was only after a downward slide through something like a tube, and then a great noise and a sparkling and crackling as of fires, that the consciousness came upon me, "This is John Harmon drowning! John Harmon, struggle for your life. John Harmon, call on Heaven and save yourself!" I think I cried it out aloud in a great agony, and then a heavy horrid unintelligible something vanished, and it was I who was struggling there alone in the water. 

'I was very weak and faint, frightfully oppressed with drowsiness, and driving fast with the tide. Looking over the black water, I saw the lights racing past me on the two banks of the river, as if they were eager to be gone and leave me dying in the dark. The tide was running down, but I knew nothing of up or down then. When, guiding myself safely with Heaven's assistance before the fierce set of the water, I at last caught at a boat moored, one of a tier of boats at a causeway, I was sucked under her, and came up, only just alive, on the other side. 

'Was I long in the water? Long enough to be chilled to the heart, but I don't know how long. Yet the cold was merciful, for it was the cold night air and the rain that restored me from a swoon on the stones of the causeway. They naturally supposed me to have toppled in, drunk, when I crept to the public-house it belonged to; for I had no notion where I was, and could not articulate -- through the poison that had made me insensible having affected my speech -- and I supposed the night to be the previous night, as it was still dark and raining. But I had lost twenty-four hours. 

'I have checked the calculation often, and it must have been two nights that I lay recovering in that public-house. Let me see. Yes. I am sure it was while I lay in that bed there, that the thought entered my head of turning the danger I had passed through, to the account of being for some time supposed to have disappeared mysteriously, and of proving Bella. The dread of our being forced on one another, and perpetuating the fate that seemed to have fallen on my father's riches -- the fate that they should lead to nothing but evil -- was strong upon the moral timidity that dates from my childhood with my poor sister. 

'As to this hour I cannot understand that side of the river where I recovered the shore, being the opposite side to that on which I was ensnared, I shall never understand it now. Even at this moment, while I leave the river behind me, going home, I cannot conceive that it rolls between me and that spot, or that the sea is where it is. But this is not thinking it out; this is making a leap to the present time. 

'I could not have done it, but for the fortune in the waterproof belt round my body. Not a great fortune, forty and odd pounds for the inheritor of a hundred and odd thousand! But it was enough. Without it I must have disclosed myself. Without it, I could never have gone to that Exchequer Coffee House, or taken Mrs Wilfer's lodgings. 

'Some twelve days I lived at that hotel, before the night when I saw the corpse of Radfoot at the Police Station. The inexpressible mental horror that I laboured under, as one of the consequences of the poison, makes the interval seem greatly longer, but I know it cannot have been longer. That suffering has gradually weakened and weakened since, and has only come upon me by starts, and I hope I am free from it now; but even now, I have sometimes to think, constrain myself, and stop before speaking, or I could not say the words I want to say. 

'Again I ramble away from thinking it out to the end. It is not so far to the end that I need be tempted to break off. Now, on straight! 

'I examined the newspapers every day for tidings that I was missing, but saw none. Going out that night to walk (for I kept retired while it was light), I found a crowd assembled round a placard posted at Whitehall. It described myself, John Harmon, as found dead and mutilated in the river under circumstances of strong suspicion, described my dress, described the papers in my pockets, and stated where I was lying for recognition. In a wild incautious way I hurried there, and there -- with the horror of the death I had escaped, before my eyes in its most appalling shape, added to the inconceivable horror tormenting me at that time when the poisonous stuff was strongest on me -- I perceived that Radfoot had been murdered by some unknown hands for the money for which he would have murdered me, and that probably we had both been shot into the river from the same dark place into the same dark tide, when the stream ran deep and strong. 

'That night I almost gave up my mystery, though I suspected no one, could offer no information, knew absolutely nothing save that the murdered man was not I, but Radfoot. Next day while I hesitated, and next day while I hesitated, it seemed as if the whole country were determined to have me dead. The Inquest declared me dead, the Government proclaimed me dead; I could not listen at my fireside for five minutes to the outer noises, but it was borne into my ears that I was dead. 

'So John Harmon died, and Julius Handford disappeared, and John Rokesmith was born. John Rokesmith's intent to-night has been to repair a wrong that he could never have imagined possible, coming to his ears through the Lightwood talk related to him, and which he is bound by every consideration to remedy. In that intent John Rokesmith will persevere, as his duty is. 

'Now, is it all thought out? All to this time? Nothing omitted? No, nothing. But beyond this time? To think it out through the future, is a harder though a much shorter task than to think it out through the past. John Harmon is dead. Should John Harmon come to life? 

'If yes, why? If no, why
Take yes, first. To enlighten human Justice concerning the offence of one far beyond it who may have a living mother. To enlighten it with the lights of a stone passage, a flight of stairs, a brown window-curtain, and a black man. To come into possession of my father's money, and with it sordidly to buy a beautiful creature whom I love -- I cannot help it; reason has nothing to do with it; I love her against reason -- but who would as soon love me for my own sake, as she would love the beggar at the corner. What a use for the money, and how worthy of its old misuses! 'Now, take no. The reasons why John Harmon should not come to life. Because he has passively allowed these dear old faithful friends to pass into possession of the property. Because he sees them happy with it, making a good use of it, effacing the old rust and tarnish on the money. Because they have virtually adopted Bella, and will provide for her. Because there is affection enough in her nature, and warmth enough in her heart, to develop into something enduringly good, under favourable conditions. Because her faults have been intensified by her place in my father's will, and she is already growing better. Because her marriage with John Harmon, after what I have heard from her own lips, would be a shocking mockery, of which both she and I must always be conscious, and which would degrade her in her mind, and me in mine, and each of us in the other's. Because if John Harmon comes to life and does not marry her, the property falls into the very hands that hold it now. 

'What would I have? Dead, I have found the true friends of my lifetime still as true as tender and as faithful as when I was alive, and making my memory an incentive to good actions done in my name. Dead, I have found them when they might have slighted my name, and passed greedily over my grave to ease and wealth, lingering by the way, like single-hearted children, to recall their love for me when I was a poor frightened child. Dead, I have heard from the woman who would have been my wife if I had lived, the revolting truth that I should have purchased her, caring nothing for me, as a Sultan buys a slave. 

'What would I have? If the dead could know, or do know, how the living use them, who among the hosts of dead has found a more disinterested fidelity on earth than I? Is not that enough for me? If I had come back, these noble creatures would have welcomed me, wept over me, given up everything to me with joy. I did not come back, and they have passed unspoiled into my place. Let them rest in it, and let Bella rest in hers. 

'What course for me then? This. To live the same quiet Secretary life, carefully avoiding chances of recognition, until they shall have become more accustomed to their altered state, and until the great swarm of swindlers under many names shall have found newer prey. By that time, the method I am establishing through all the affairs, and with which I will every day take new pains to make them both familiar, will be, I may hope, a machine in such working order as that they can keep it going. I know I need but ask of their generosity, to have. When the right time comes, I will ask no more than will replace me in my former path of life, and John Rokesmith shall tread it as contentedly as he may. But John Harmon shall come back no more. 

'That I may never, in the days to come afar off, have any weak misgiving that Bella might, in any contingency, have taken me for my own sake if I had plainly asked her, I WILL plainly ask her: proving beyond all question what I already know too well. And now it is all thought out, from the beginning to the end, and my mind is easier
Make my compliments to Miss Wilfer, and say I am here now
Dear me! Are you not well, Mr Rokesmith
Yes, quite well. I was sorry to hear, when I came in, that YOU were not
A mere nothing. I had a headache -- gone now -- and was not quite fit for a hot theatre, so I stayed at home. I asked you if you were not well, because you look so white
Do I? I have had a busy evening
I hope the time has been long without me? What a Home Goddess you look, my darling
Mr Rokesmith
I wanted to say something to you when I could have the opportunity, as an explanation why I was rude to you the other day. You have no right to think ill of me, sir
You don't know how well I think of you, Miss Wilfer
Truly, you must have a very high opinion of me, Mr Rokesmith, when you believe that in prosperity I neglect and forget my old home
Do I believe so
You DID, sir, at any rate
I took the liberty of reminding you of a little omission into which you had fallen -- insensibly and naturally fallen. It was no more than that
And I beg leave to ask you, Mr Rokesmith
why you took that liberty?-- I hope there is no offence in the phrase; it is your own, remember
Because I am truly, deeply, profoundly interested in you, Miss Wilfer. Because I wish to see you always at your best. Because I -- shall I go on
No, sir
you have said more than enough. I beg that you will NOT go on. If you have any generosity, any honour, you will say no more
I wish to speak to you, sir
once for all, and I don't know how to do it. I have sat here all this evening, wishing to speak to you, and determining to speak to you, and feeling that I must. I beg for a moment's time
You know how I am situated here, sir, and you know how I am situated at home. I must speak to you for myself, since there is no one about me whom I could ask to do so. It is not generous in you, it is not honourable in you, to conduct yourself towards me as you do
Is it ungenerous or dishonourable to be devoted to you; fascinated by you
Preposterous
I now feel obliged to go on
though it were only in self-explanation and self-defence. I hope, Miss Wilfer, that it is not unpardonable -- even in me -- to make an honest declaration of an honest devotion to you
An honest declaration
Is it otherwise
I must request, sir
that I may not be questioned. You must excuse me if I decline to be cross-examined
Oh, Miss Wilfer, this is hardly charitable. I ask you nothing but what your own emphasis suggests. However, I waive even that question. But what I have declared, I take my stand by. I cannot recall the avowal of my earnest and deep attachment to you, and I do not recall it
I reject it, sir
I should be blind and deaf if I were not prepared for the reply. Forgive my offence, for it carries its punishment with it
What punishment
Is my present endurance none? But excuse me; I did not mean to cross-examine you again
You take advantage of a hasty word of mine
to make me seem -- I don't know what. I spoke without consideration when I used it. If that was bad, I am sorry; but you repeat it after consideration, and that seems to me to be at least no better. For the rest, I beg it may be understood, Mr Rokesmith, that there is an end of this between us, now and for ever
Now and for ever
Yes. I appeal to you, sir
not to pursue me. I appeal to you not to take advantage of your position in this house to make my position in it distressing and disagreeable. I appeal to you to discontinue your habit of making your misplaced attentions as plain to Mrs Boffin as to me
Have I done so
I should think you have
In any case it is not your fault if you have not, Mr Rokesmith
I hope you are wrong in that impression. I should be very sorry to have justified it. I think I have not. For the future there is no apprehension. It is all over
I am much relieved to hear it
I have far other views in life, and why should you waste your own
Mine
My life
Pardon me, Miss Wilfer
you have used some hard words, for which I do not doubt you have a justification in your mind, that I do not understand. Ungenerous and dishonourable. In what
I would rather not be asked
I would rather not ask, but the question is imposed upon me. Kindly explain; or if not kindly, justly
Oh, sir
is it generous and honourable to use the power here which your favour with Mr and Mrs Boffin and your ability in your place give you, against me
Against you
Is it generous and honourable to form a plan for gradually bringing their influence to bear upon a suit which I have shown you that I do not like, and which I tell you that I utterly reject
Would it be generous and honourable to step into your place -- if you did so, for I don't know that you did, and I hope you did not -- anticipating, or knowing beforehand, that I should come here, and designing to take me at this disadvantage
This mean and cruel disadvantage
Yes
You are wholly mistaken, Miss Wilfer; wonderfully mistaken. I cannot say, however, that it is your fault. If I deserve better things of you, you do not know it
At least, sir
you know the history of my being here at all. I have heard Mr Boffin say that you are master of every line and word of that will, as you are master of all his affairs. And was it not enough that I should have been willed away, like a horse, or a dog, or a bird; but must you too begin to dispose of me in your mind, and speculate in me, as soon as I had ceased to be the talk and the laugh of the town? Am I for ever to be made the property of strangers
Believe me
you are wonderfully mistaken
I should be glad to know it
I doubt if you ever will. Good-night. Of course I shall be careful to conceal any traces of this interview from Mr and Mrs Boffin, as long as I remain here. Trust me, what you have complained of is at an end for ever
I am glad I have spoken, then, Mr Rokesmith. It has been painful and difficult, but it is done. If I have hurt you, I hope you will forgive me. I am inexperienced and impetuous, and I have been a little spoilt; but I really am not so bad as I dare say I appear, or as you think me
I didn't know the lovely woman was such a Dragon
You have been positively swelling your features, you little fool
I wish Pa was here to have a talk about an avaricious marriage; but he is better away, poor dear, for I know I should pull his hair if he WAS here
Cover him, crush him, keep him down
This is another of the old perverted uses of the misery-making money. I will let it go to my and my sister's only protectors and friends
And shall I come to life to dispossess such people as these
A present from my daughter Bella, Mr Rokesmith
I don't know whether you happen to have read many books of African Travel, Mr Rokesmith
I have read several
Well, you know, there's usually a King George, or a King Boy, or a King Sambo, or a King Bill, or Bull, or Rum, or Junk, or whatever name the sailors may have happened to give him
Where
Anywhere. Anywhere in Africa, I mean. Pretty well everywhere, I may say; for black kings are cheap -- and I think
I am much of your opinion, Mr Wilfer. You were going to say
I was going to say, the king is generally dressed in a London hat only, or a Manchester pair of braces, or one epaulette, or an uniform coat with his legs in the sleeves, or something of that kind
Just so
In confidence, I assure you, Mr Rokesmith
that when more of my family were at home and to be provided for, I used to remind myself immensely of that king. You have no idea, as a single man, of the difficulty I have had in wearing more than one good article at a time
I can easily believe it, Mr Wilfer
I only mention it
as a proof of the amiable, delicate, and considerate affection of my daughter Bella. If she had been a little spoilt, I couldn't have thought so very much of it, under the circumstances. But no, not a bit. And she is so very pretty! I hope you agree with me in finding her very pretty, Mr Rokesmith
Certainly I do. Every one must
I hope so
Indeed, I have no doubt of it. This is a great advancement for her in life, Mr Rokesmith. A great opening of her prospects
Miss Wilfer could have no better friends than Mr and Mrs Boffin
Impossible
Really I begin to think things are very well as they are. If Mr John Harmon had lived
He is better dead
No, I won't go so far as to say that
but he mightn't have suited Bella, or Bella mightn't have suited him, or fifty things, whereas now I hope she can choose for herself
Has she -- as you place the confidence in me of speaking on the subject, you will excuse my asking -- has she -- perhaps -- chosen
Oh dear no
Young ladies sometimes
choose without mentioning their choice to their fathers
Not in this case, Mr Rokesmith. Between my daughter Bella and me there is a regular league and covenant of confidence. It was ratified only the other day. The ratification dates from -- these
Oh no, she has not chosen. To be sure, young George Sampson, in the days when Mr John Harmon
Who I wish had never been born
In the days when Mr John Harmon was being sought out, young George Sampson certainly was hovering about Bella, and Bella let him hover. But it never was seriously thought of, and it's still less than ever to be thought of now. For Bella is ambitious, Mr Rokesmith, and I think I may predict will marry fortune. This time, you see, she will have the person and the property before her together, and will be able to make her choice with her eyes open. This is my road. I am very sorry to part company so soon. Good morning, sir
I should thank you kindly, sir
if I might make so bold as have a word or two wi' you
'Tis concerning Sloppy, sir
And that's how I come here by myself. Not wishing him to know what I'm a-going to say to you, I got the start of him early and walked up
You have wonderful energy
You are as young as I am
I am strong for my time of life, sir, but not young, thank the Lord
Are you thankful for not being young
Yes, sir. If I was young, it would all have to be gone through again, and the end would be a weary way off, don't you see? But never mind me; 'tis concerning Sloppy
And what about him, Betty
'Tis just this, sir. It can't be reasoned out of his head by any powers of mine but what that he can do right by your kind lady and gentleman and do his work for me, both together. Now he can't. To give himself up to being put in the way of arning a good living and getting on, he must give me up. Well; he won't
I respect him for it
DO ye, sir? I don't know but what I do myself. Still that don't make it right to let him have his way. So as he won't give me up, I'm a-going to give him up
How, Betty
I'm a-going to run away from him
Run away from him
Yes, sir
Come, come
We must talk about this. Let us take our time over it, and try to get at the true sense of the case and the true course, by degrees
Now, lookee here, by dear
asking your excuse for being so familiar, but being of a time of life a'most to be your grandmother twice over. Now, lookee, here. 'Tis a poor living and a hard as is to be got out of this work that I'm a doing now, and but for Sloppy I don't know as I should have held to it this long. But it did just keep us on, the two together. Now that I'm alone -- with even Johnny gone -- I'd far sooner be upon my feet and tiring of myself out, than a sitting folding and folding by the fire. And I'll tell you why. There's a deadness steals over me at times, that the kind of life favours and I don't like. Now, I seem to have Johnny in my arms -- now, his mother -- now, his mother's mother -- now, I seem to be a child myself, a lying once again in the arms of my own mother -- then I get numbed, thought and sense, till I start out of my seat, afeerd that I'm a growing like the poor old people that they brick up in the Unions, as you may sometimes see when they let 'em out of the four walls to have a warm in the sun, crawling quite scared about the streets. I was a nimble girl, and have always been a active body, as I told your lady, first time ever I see her good face. I can still walk twenty mile if I am put to it. I'd far better be a walking than a getting numbed and dreary. I'm a good fair knitter, and can make many little things to sell. The loan from your lady and gentleman of twenty shillings to fit out a basket with, would be a fortune for me. Trudging round the country and tiring of myself out, I shall keep the deadness off, and get my own bread by my own labour. And what more can I want
And this is your plan
for running away
Show me a better! My deary, show me a better! Why, I know very well
and you know very well, that your lady and gentleman would set me up like a queen for the rest of my life, if so be that we could make it right among us to have it so. But we can't make it right among us to have it so. I've never took charity yet, nor yet has any one belonging to me. And it would be forsaking of myself indeed, and forsaking of my children dead and gone, and forsaking of their children dead and gone, to set up a contradiction now at last
It might come to be justifiable and unavoidable at last
I hope it never will! It ain't that I mean to give offence by being anyways proud
but that I want to be of a piece like, and helpful of myself right through to my death
And to be sure
Sloppy will be eagerly looking forward to his opportunity of being to you what you have been to him
Trust him for that, sir
Though he had need to be something quick about it, for I'm a getting to be an old one. But I'm a strong one too, and travel and weather never hurt me yet! Now, be so kind as speak for me to your lady and gentleman, and tell 'em what I ask of their good friendliness to let me do, and why I ask it
It would be far more satisfactory to your kind heart, I know
to provide for her, but it may be a duty to respect this independent spirit
But, Betty
'Twould come easier to Sloppy
'Twould come easier to me too. But 'tis as you please
When would you go
Now
To-day, my deary, to- morrow. Bless ye, I am used to it. I know many parts of the country well. When nothing else was to be done, I have worked in many a market-garden afore now, and in many a hop-garden too
If I give my consent to your going, Betty -- which Mr Rokesmith thinks I ought to do
We must not lose sight of you. We must not let you pass out of our knowledge. We must know all about you
Yes, my deary, but not through letter-writing, because letter- writing -- indeed, writing of most sorts hadn't much come up for such as me when I was young. But I shall be to and fro. No fear of my missing a chance of giving myself a sight of your reviving face. Besides
I shall have a debt to pay off, by littles, and naturally that would bring me back, if nothing else would
MUST it be done
I think it must
Don't ye be timorous for me, my dear
if there had been the money to put him to it
That's well
It will not be hard to find a trade for him
I might even
be apprehended as having been concerned in my own murder
But with whom the common course of things might bring me in a moment face to face, any day in the week or any hour in the day
May I ask, sir
to whose good opinion I owe a recommendation to you
You should know that I am not the principal here. I am Mr Boffin's Secretary. Mr Boffin is a gentleman who inherited a property of which you may have heard some public mention; the Harmon property
Mr Harmon
was murdered and found in the river
Was murdered and found in the river
It was not
No
it was not he who recommended you. Mr Boffin heard of you through a certain Mr Lightwood. I think you know Mr Lightwood, or know of him
I know as much of him as I wish to know, sir. I have no acquaintance with Mr Lightwood, and I desire none. I have no objection to Mr Lightwood, but I have a particular objection to some of Mr Lightwood's friends -- in short, to one of Mr Lightwood's friends. His great friend
I have no objection to mention the friend by name
The person I object to, is Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Pray, Mr Headstone, what is the name
of young Hexam's sister
Her name is Lizzie
She is a young woman of a remarkable character; is she not
She is sufficiently remarkable to be very superior to Mr Eugene Wrayburn -- though an ordinary person might be that
and I hope you will not think it impertinent in me, sir, to ask why you put the two names together
By mere accident
Observing that Mr Wrayburn was a disagreeable subject with you, I tried to get away from it: though not very successfully, it would appear
Do you know Mr Wrayburn, sir
No
Then perhaps the names cannot be put together on the authority of any representation of his
Certainly not
I took the liberty to ask
because he is capable of making any representation, in the swaggering levity of his insolence. I -- I hope you will not misunderstand me, sir. I -- I am much interested in this brother and sister, and the subject awakens very strong feelings within me. Very, very, strong feelings
What do you see in me
The brother, young Hexam, was your real recommendation here
Mr and Mrs Boffin happening to know, through Mr Lightwood, that he was your pupil. Anything that I ask respecting the brother and sister, or either of them, I ask for myself out of my own interest in the subject, and not in my official character, or on Mr Boffin's behalf. How I come to be interested, I need not explain. You know the father's connection with the discovery of Mr Harmon's body
Sir
I know all the circumstances of that case
Pray tell me, Mr Headstone
Does the sister suffer under any stigma because of the impossible accusation -- groundless would be a better word -- that was made against the father, and substantially withdrawn
No, sir
I am very glad to hear it
The sister
suffers under no reproach that repels a man of unimpeachable character who had made for himself every step of his way in life, from placing her in his own station. I will not say, raising her to his own station; I say, placing her in it. The sister labours under no reproach, unless she should unfortunately make it for herself. When such a man is not deterred from regarding her as his equal, and when he has convinced himself that there is no blemish on her, I think the fact must be taken to be pretty expressive
And there is such a man
And there is such a man
I think
that at least you might keep a letter in your pocket, Mrs Higden, which I would write for you and date from here, merely stating, in the names of Mr and Mrs Boffin, that they are your friends;-- I won't say patrons, because they wouldn't like it
No, no, no
no patronizing! Let's keep out of THAT, whatever we come to
There's more than enough of that about, without us; ain't there, Noddy
I believe you, old lady
Overmuch indeed
But people sometimes like to be patronized; don't they, sir
I don't. And if THEY do, my dear, they ought to learn better
Patrons and Patronesses, and Vice-Patrons and Vice-Patronesses, and Deceased Patrons and Deceased Patronesses, and Ex-Vice-Patrons and Ex-Vice-Patronesses, what does it all mean in the books of the Charities that come pouring in on Rokesmith as he sits among 'em pretty well up to his neck! If Mr Tom Noakes gives his five shillings ain't he a Patron, and if Mrs Jack Styles gives her five shillings ain't she a Patroness? What the deuce is it all about? If it ain't stark staring impudence, what do you call it
Don't be warm, Noddy
Warm
It's enough to make a man smoking hot. I can't go anywhere without being Patronized. I don't want to be Patronized. If I buy a ticket for a Flower Show, or a Music Show, or any sort of Show, and pay pretty heavy for it, why am I to be Patroned and Patronessed as if the Patrons and Patronesses treated me? If there's a good thing to be done, can't it be done on its own merits? If there's a bad thing to be done, can it ever be Patroned and Patronessed right? Yet when a new Institution's going to be built, it seems to me that the bricks and mortar ain't made of half so much consequence as the Patrons and Patronesses; no, nor yet the objects. I wish somebody would tell me whether other countries get Patronized to anything like the extent of this one! And as to the Patrons and Patronesses themselves, I wonder they're not ashamed of themselves. They ain't Pills, or Hair-Washes, or Invigorating Nervous Essences, to be puffed in that way
As to the letter, Rokesmith
you're as right as a trivet. Give her the letter, make her take the letter, put it in her pocket by violence. She might fall sick. You know you might fall sick
Don't deny it, Mrs Higden, in your obstinacy; you know you might
That's right
Come! That's sensible. And don't be thankful to us (for we never thought of it), but to Mr Rokesmith
Now, how do you feel
Do you like it
The letter, sir
Ay, it's a beautiful letter
No, no, no; not the letter
the idea. Are you sure you're strong enough to carry out the idea
I shall be stronger, and keep the deadness off better, this way, than any way left open to me, sir
Don't say than any way left open, you know
because there are ways without end. A housekeeper would be acceptable over yonder at the Bower, for instance. Wouldn't you like to see the Bower, and know a retired literary man of the name of Wegg that lives there -- WITH a wooden leg
I wouldn't let you go, now it comes to this, after all
if I didn't hope that it may make a man and a workman of Sloppy, in as short a time as ever a man and workman was made yet. Why, what have you got there, Betty? Not a doll
A kiss for the boofer lady
That dolls' dressmaker
is favourable neither to me nor to you, Hexam
A pert crooked little chit, Mr Headstone! I knew she would put herself in the way, if she could, and would be sure to strike in with something impertinent. It was on that account that I proposed our going to the City to-night and meeting my sister
So I supposed
So I supposed
Nobody but my sister
would have found out such an extraordinary companion. She has done it in a ridiculous fancy of giving herself up to another. She told me so, that night when we went there
Why should she give herself up to the dressmaker
Oh
One of her romantic ideas! I tried to convince her so, but I didn't succeed. However, what we have got to do, is, to succeed to-night, Mr Headstone, and then all the rest follows
You are still sanguine, Hexam
Certainly I am, sir. Why, we have everything on our side
Except your sister, perhaps
Everything on our side
Respectability, an excellent connexion for me, common sense, everything
To be sure, your sister has always shown herself a devoted sister
Naturally, Mr Headstone, I have a good deal of influence with her. And now that you have honoured me with your confidence and spoken to me first, I say again, we have everything on our side
Except your sister, perhaps
Here she comes, Mr Headstone! Let us go forward and meet her
Why, where are you going, Charley, dear
Nowhere. We came on purpose to meet you
To meet me, Charley
Yes. We are going to walk with you. But don't let us take the great leading streets where every one walks, and we can't hear ourselves speak. Let us go by the quiet backways. Here's a large paved court by this church, and quiet, too. Let us go up here
But it's not in the way, Charley
Yes it is
It's in my way, and my way is yours
Come along, Mr Headstone
Lizzie, Mr Headstone has something to say to you. I don't wish to be an interruption either to him or to you, and so I'll go and take a little stroll and come back. I know in a general way what Mr Headstone intends to say, and I very highly approve of it, as I hope -- and indeed I do not doubt -- you will. I needn't tell you, Lizzie, that I am under great obligations to Mr Headstone, and that I am very anxious for Mr Headstone to succeed in all he undertakes. As I hope -- and as, indeed, I don't doubt -- you must be
Charley
I think you had better stay. I think Mr Headstone had better not say what he thinks of saying
Why, how do you know what it is
Perhaps I don't, but
Perhaps you don't? No, Liz, I should think not. If you knew what it was, you would give me a very different answer. There; let go; be sensible. I wonder you don't remember that Mr Headstone is looking on
Now Liz, be a rational girl and a good sister
I said
when I saw you last, that there was something unexplained, which might perhaps influence you. I have come this evening to explain it. I hope you will not judge of me by my hesitating manner when I speak to you. You see me at my greatest disadvantage. It is most unfortunate for me that I wish you to see me at my best, and that I know you see me at my worst
It seems egotistical to begin by saying so much about myself
but whatever I say to you seems, even in my own ears, below what I want to say, and different from what I want to say. I can't help it. So it is. You are the ruin of me
Yes! you are the ruin -- the ruin -- the ruin -- of me. I have no resources in myself, I have no confidence in myself, I have no government of myself when you are near me or in my thoughts. And you are always in my thoughts now. I have never been quit of you since I first saw you. Oh, that was a wretched day for me! That was a wretched, miserable day
Mr Headstone, I am grieved to have done you any harm, but I have never meant it
There
Now, I seem to have reproached you, instead of revealing to you the state of my own mind! Bear with me. I am always wrong when you are in question. It is my doom
I must try to give expression to what is in my mind; it shall and must be spoken. Though you see me so confounded -- though you strike me so helpless -- I ask you to believe that there are many people who think well of me; that there are some people who highly esteem me; that I have in my way won a Station which is considered worth winning
Surely, Mr Headstone, I do believe it. Surely I have always known it from Charley
I ask you to believe that if I were to offer my home such as it is, my station such as it is, my affections such as they are, to any one of the best considered, and best qualified, and most distinguished, among the young women engaged in my calling, they would probably be accepted. Even readily accepted
I do not doubt it
I have sometimes had it in my thoughts to make that offer and to settle down as many men of my class do: I on the one side of a school, my wife on the other, both of us interested in the same work
Why have you not done so
Why do you not do so
Far better that I never did! The only one grain of comfort I have had these many weeks
the only one grain of comfort I have had these many weeks is, that I never did. For if I had, and if the same spell had come upon me for my ruin, I know I should have broken that tie asunder as if it had been thread
No! It would not have been voluntary on my part, any more than it is voluntary in me to be here now. You draw me to you. If I were shut up in a strong prison, you would draw me out. I should break through the wall to come to you. If I were lying on a sick bed, you would draw me up -- to stagger to your feet and fall there
No man knows till the time comes, what depths are within him. To some men it never comes; let them rest and be thankful! To me, you brought it; on me, you forced it; and the bottom of this raging sea
has been heaved up ever since
Mr Headstone, I have heard enough. Let me stop you here. It will be better for you and better for me. Let us find my brother
Not yet. It shall and must be spoken. I have been in torments ever since I stopped short of it before. You are alarmed. It is another of my miseries that I cannot speak to you or speak of you without stumbling at every syllable, unless I let the check go altogether and run mad. Here is a man lighting the lamps. He will be gone directly. I entreat of you let us walk round this place again. You have no reason to look alarmed; I can restrain myself, and I will
You know what I am going to say. I love you. What other men may mean when they use that expression, I cannot tell; what I mean is, that I am under the influence of some tremendous attraction which I have resisted in vain, and which overmasters me. You could draw me to fire, you could draw me to water, you could draw me to the gallows, you could draw me to any death, you could draw me to anything I have most avoided, you could draw me to any exposure and disgrace. This and the confusion of my thoughts, so that I am fit for nothing, is what I mean by your being the ruin of me. But if you would return a favourable answer to my offer of myself in marringe, you could draw me to any good -- every good -- with equal force. My circumstances are quite easy, and you would want for nothing. My reputation stands quite high, and would be a shield for yours. If you saw me at my work, able to do it well and respected in it, you might even come to take a sort of pride in me;-- I would try hard that you should. Whatever considerations I may have thought of against this offer, I have conquered, and I make it with all my heart. Your brother favours me to the utmost, and it is likely that we might live and work together; anyhow, it is certain that he would have my best influence and support. I don't know what I could say more if I tried. I might only weaken what is ill enough said as it is. I only add that if it is any claim on you to be in earnest, I am in thorough earnest, dreadful earnest
Mr Headstone
Stop! I implore you, before you answer me, to walk round this place once more. It will give you a minute's time to think, and me a minute's time to get some fortitude together
Is it
yes, or no
Mr Headstone, I thank you sincerely, I thank you gratefully, and hope you may find a worthy wife before long and be very happy. But it is no
Is no short time necessary for reflection; no weeks or days
None whatever
Are you quite decided, and is there no chance of any change in my favour
I am quite decided, Mr Headstone, and I am bound to answer I am certain there is none
Then
then I hope that I may never kill him
Mr Headstone, let me go. Mr Headstone, I must call for help
It is I who should call for help
you don't know yet how much I need it
There! You see I have recovered myself. Hear me out
This time, at least, I will leave nothing unsaid
this last time at least I will not be tortured with after-thoughts of a lost opportunity. Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Was it of him you spoke in your ungovernable rage and violence
Was it Mr Wrayburn that you threatened
You asked me to hear you out, and you will not speak. Let me find my brother
Stay! I threatened no one
Mr Eugene Wrayburn
Why do you mention that name again and again, Mr Headstone
Because it is the text of the little I have left to say. Observe! There are no threats in it. If I utter a threat, stop me, and fasten it upon me. Mr Eugene Wrayburn
He haunts you. You accept favours from him. You are willing enough to listen to HIM. I know it, as well as he does
Mr Wrayburn has been considerate and good to me, sir
in connexion with the death and with the memory of my poor father
No doubt. He is of course a very considerate and a very good man, Mr Eugene Wrayburn
He is nothing to you, I think
Oh yes, he is. There you mistake. He is much to me
What can he be to you
He can be a rival to me among other things
Mr Headstone
it is cowardly in you to speak to me in this way. But it makes me able to tell you that I do not like you, and that I never have liked you from the first, and that no other living creature has anything to do with the effect you have produced upon me for yourself
I was going on with the little I had left to say. I knew all this about Mr Eugene Wrayhurn, all the while you were drawing me to you. I strove against the knowledge, but quite in vain. It made no difference in me. With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind, I went on. With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind, I spoke to you just now. With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind, I have been set aside and I have been cast out
If you give those names to my thanking you for your proposal and declining it, is it my fault, Mr Headstone
I am not complaining
I am only stating the case. I had to wrestle with my self-respect when I submitted to be drawn to you in spite of Mr Wrayburn. You may imagine how low my self-respect lies now
And it lies under his feet
Remember that! It lies under that fellow's feet, and he treads upon it and exults above it
He does not
He does
I have stood before him face to face, and he crushed me down in the dirt of his contempt, and walked over me. Why? Because he knew with triumph what was in store for me to-night
O, Mr Headstone, you talk quite wildly
Quite collectedly. I know what I say too well. Now I have said all. I have used no threat, remember; I have done no more than show you how the case stands;-- how the case stands, so far
Charley Hexam, I am going home. I must walk home by myself to-night, and get shut up in my room without being spoken to. Give me half an hour's start, and let me be, till you find me at my work in the morning. I shall be at my work in the morning just as usual
What is the meaning of this? What have you done to my best friend? Out with the truth
Charley
Speak a little more considerately
I am not in the humour for consideration, or for nonsense of any sort
What have you been doing? Why has Mr Headstone gone from us in that way
He asked me -- you know he asked me -- to be his wife, Charley
Well
And I was obliged to tell him that I could not be his wife
You were obliged to tell him
You were obliged to tell him! Do you know that he is worth fifty of you
It may easily be so, Charley, but I cannot marry him
You mean that you are conscious that you can't appreciate him, and don't deserve him, I suppose
I mean that I do not like him, Charley, and that I will never marry him
Upon my soul
you are a nice picture of a sister! Upon my soul, you are a pretty piece of disinterestedness! And so all my endeavours to cancel the past and to raise myself in the world, and to raise you with me, are to be beaten down by YOUR low whims; are they
I will not reproach you, Charley
Hear her
She won't reproach me! She does her best to destroy my fortunes and her own, and she won't reproach me! Why, you'll tell me, next, that you won't reproach Mr Headstone for coming out of the sphere to which he is an ornament, and putting himself at YOUR feet, to be rejected by YOU
No, Charley; I will only tell you, as I told himself, that I thank him for doing so, that I am sorry he did so, and that I hope he will do much better, and be happy
Now, come, Liz; don't let us quarrel: let us be reasonable and talk this over like brother and sister. Will you listen to me
Oh, Charley
do I not listen to you, and hear many hard things
Then I am sorry. There, Liz! I am unfeignedly sorry. Only you do put me out so. Now see. Mr Headstone is perfectly devoted to you. He has told me in the strongest manner that he has never been his old self for one single minute since I first brought him to see you. Miss Peecher, our schoolmistress -- pretty and young, and all that -- is known to be very much attached to him, and he won't so much as look at her or hear of her. Now, his devotion to you must be a disinterested one; mustn't it? If he married Miss Peecher, he would be a great deal better off in all worldly respects, than in marrying you. Well then; he has nothing to get by it, has he
Nothing, Heaven knows
Very well then
that's something in his favour, and a great thing. Then I come in. Mr Headstone has always got me on, and he has a good deal in his power, and of course if he was my brother-in-law he wouldn't get me on less, but would get me on more. Mr Headstone comes and confides in me, in a very delicate way, and says, "I hope my marrying your sister would be agreeable to you, Hexam, and useful to you?" I say, "There's nothing in the world, Mr Headstone, that I could he better pleased with." Mr Headstone says, "Then I may rely upon your intimate knowledge of me for your good word with your sister, Hexam?" And I say, "Certainly, Mr Headstone, and naturally I have a good deal of influence with her." So I have; haven't I, Liz
Yes, Charley
Well said! Now, you see, we begin to get on, the moment we begin to be really talking it over, like brother and sister. Very well. Then YOU come in. As Mr Headstone's wife you would be occupying a most respectable station, and you would be holding a far better place in society than you hold now, and you would at length get quit of the river-side and the old disagreeables belonging to it, and you would be rid for good of dolls' dressmakers and their drunken fathers, and the like of that. Not that I want to disparage Miss Jenny Wren: I dare say she is all very well in her way; but her way is not your way as Mr Headstone's wife. Now, you see, Liz, on all three accounts -- on Mr Headstone's, on mine, on yours -- nothing could be better or more desirable
Having so much influence with you, Liz, as I have, perhaps I should have done better to have had a little chat with you in the first instance, before Mr Headstone spoke for himself. But really all this in his favour seemed so plain and undeniable, and I knew you to have always been so reasonable and sensible, that I didn't consider it worth while. Very likely that was a mistake of mine. However, it's soon set right. All that need be done to set it right, is for you to tell me at once that I may go home and tell Mr Headstone that what has taken place is not final, and that it will all come round by-and-by
Can't you speak
I am very unwilling to speak, Charley. If I must, I must. I cannot authorize you to say any such thing to Mr Headstone: I cannot allow you to say any such thing to Mr Headstone. Nothing remains to be said to him from me, after what I have said for good and all, to-night
And this girl
calls herself a sister
Charley, dear, that is the second time that you have almost struck me. Don't be hurt by my words. I don't mean -- Heaven forbid!-- that you intended it; but you hardly know with what a sudden swing you removed yourself from me
However
I know what this means, and you shall not disgrace me
It means what I have told you, Charley, and nothing more
That's not true
and you know it's not. It means your precious Mr Wrayburn; that's what it means
Charley! If you remember any old days of ours together, forbear
But you shall not disgrace me
I am determined that after I have climbed up out of the mire, you shall not pull me down. You can't disgrace me if I have nothing to do with you, and I will have nothing to do with you for the future
Charley! On many a night like this, and many a worse night, I have sat on the stones of the street, hushing you in my arms. Unsay those words without even saying you are sorry for them, and my arms are open to you still, and so is my heart
I'll not unsay them. I'll say them again. You are an inveterately bad girl, and a false sister, and I have done with you. For ever, I have done with you
O that I were lying here with the dead
O Charley, Charley, that this should be the end of our pictures in the fire
Pardon me, young woman, for speaking to you, but you are under some distress of mind. I cannot pass upon my way and leave you weeping here alone, as if there was nothing in the place. Can I help you? Can I do anything to give you comfort
O, Mr Riah, is it you
My daughter
I stand amazed! I spoke as to a stranger. Take my arm, take my arm. What grieves you? Who has done this? Poor girl, poor girl
My brother has quarrelled with me
and renounced me
He is a thankless dog
Let him go
Lizzie! why, where have you been? Why, what's the matter
Lizzie, what is the matter
Mr Wrayburn, I cannot tell you now. I cannot tell you to-night, if I ever can tell you. Pray leave me
But, Lizzie, I came expressly to join you. I came to walk home with you, having dined at a coffee-house in this neighbourhood and knowing your hour. And I have been lingering about
like a bailiff; or
an old clothesman
Mr Wrayburn, pray, pray, leave me with this protector. And one thing more. Pray, pray be careful of yourself
Mysteries of Udolpho
May I be excused for asking, in the elderly gentleman's presence, who is this kind protector
A trustworthy friend
I will relieve him of his trust
But you must tell me, Lizzie, what is the matter
Her brother is the matter
Our brother the matter
Our brother is not worth a thought, far less a tear. What has our brother done
Humph
If Mr Aaron
will be good enough to relinquish his charge to me, he will be quite free for any engagement he may have at the Synagogue. Mr Aaron, will you have the kindness
Good evening, Mr Aaron
we need not detain you
Is our friend Mr Aaron a little deaf
My hearing is very good, Christian gentleman
but I will hear only one voice to-night, desiring me to leave this damsel before I have conveyed her to her home. If she requests it, I will do it. I will do it for no one else
May I ask why so, Mr Aaron
Excuse me. If she asks me, I will tell her
I will tell no one else
I do not ask you
and I beg you to take me home. Mr Wrayburn, I have had a bitter trial to-night, and I hope you will not think me ungrateful, or mysterious, or changeable. I am neither; I am wretched. Pray remember what I said to you. Pray, pray, take care
My dear Lizzie
of what? Of whom
Of any one you have lately seen and made angry
Come
since no better may be, Mr Aaron and I will divide this trust, and see you home together. Mr Aaron on that side; I on this. If perfectly agreeable to Mr Aaron, the escort will now proceed
Mr Aaron
with many thanks for your company, it remains for me unwillingly to say Farewell
Sir
I give you good night, and I wish that you were not so thoughtless
Mr Aaron
I give you good night, and I wish (for you are a little dull) that you were not so thoughtful
How did Lightwood's catechism run
What is to come of it? What are you doing? Where are you going? We shall soon know now. Ah
As he will never distinguish himself, he must be a poor gentleman-pensioner of mine, and let him hereby consider himself pensioned
Your mother, sir, was a connexion of mine
I believe so
but my mother and her family were two
Are you staying in town
I always am
You like town
There is nothing new this morning, I suppose
No, there's not a word of news
Not a particle
Not an atom
I beg your pardon
Yes, Lady Tippins
Then we expect you
to sustain your reputation, and tell us something else
Lady Tippins, I exhausted myself for life that day, and there is nothing more to be got out of me
But
I am resolved on getting something more out of you. Traitor! what is this I hear about another disappearance
As it is you who have heard it
perhaps you'll tell us
Monster, away
Your own Golden Dustman referred me to you
I assure you
I have nothing to tell
There, tell it, tell it
Nothing worth mentioning
Pray don't be at the trouble of composing yourselves to listen
because I shall have finished long before you have fallen into comfortable attitudes. It's like
It's like
The reference
which I suppose to be made by my honourable and fair enslaver opposite, is to the following circumstance. Very lately, the young woman, Lizzie Hexam, daughter of the late Jesse Hexam, otherwise Gaffer, who will be remembered to have found the body of the man from somewhere, mysteriously received, she knew not from whom, an explicit retraction of the charges made against her father, by another water-side character of the name of Riderhood. Nobody believed them, because little Rogue Riderhood -- I am tempted into the paraphrase by remembering the charming wolf who would have rendered society a great service if he had devoured Mr Riderhood's father and mother in their infancy -- had previously played fast and loose with the said charges, and, in fact, abandoned them. However, the retraction I have mentioned found its way into Lizzie Hexam's hands, with a general flavour on it of having been favoured by some anonymous messenger in a dark cloak and slouched hat, and was by her forwarded, in her father's vindication, to Mr Boffin, my client. You will excuse the phraseology of the shop, but as I never had another client, and in all likelihood never shall have, I am rather proud of him as a natural curiosity probably unique
The natural curiosity which forms the sole ornament of my professional museum
hereupon desires his Secretary -- an individual of the hermit-crab or oyster species, and whose name, I think, is Chokesmith -- but it doesn't in the least matter -- say Artichoke -- to put himself in communication with Lizzie Hexam. Artichoke professes his readiness so to do, endeavours to do so, but fails
Why fails
How fails
Pardon me
I must postpone the reply for one moment, or we shall have an anti-climax. Artichoke failing signally, my client refers the task to me: his purpose being to advance the interests of the object of his search. I proceed to put myself in communication with her; I even happen to possess some special means
of putting myself in communication with her; but I fail too, because she has vanished
Vanished
Disappeared
Nobody knows how, nobody knows when, nobody knows where. And so ends the story to which my honourable and fair enslaver opposite referred
No, no, no; he doesn't mean that; he means voluntarily vanished -- but utterly -- completely
Lammle, God bless you
They spoke of it soon after they were married, and agreed that they would never forget it. In fact, to Veneering they owe their union. They hope to show their sense of this some day
Mr Twemlow
I beg your pardon? Yes
You have the soul of a gentleman, and I know I may trust you. Will you give me the opportunity of saying a few words to you when you come up stairs
Assuredly. I shall be honoured
Don't seem to do so, if you please, and don't think it inconsistent if my manner should be more careless than my words. I may be watched
You have reason to be surprised
but I wish you wouldn't look so
I think, Mr Twemlow, you never saw that distant connexion of yours before to-day
No, never
Now that you do see him, you see what he is. You are not proud of him
To say the truth, Mrs Lammle, no
If you knew more of him, you would be less inclined to acknowledge him. Here is another portrait. What do you think of it
Very like! Uncommonly like
You have noticed, perhaps, whom he favours with his attentions? You notice where he is now, and how engaged
Yes. But Mr Lammle
Very good; is it not
Charming
So like as to be almost a caricature?-- Mr Twemlow, it is impossible to tell you what the struggle in my mind has been, before I could bring myself to speak to you as I do now. It is only in the conviction that I may trust you never to betray me, that I can proceed. Sincerely promise me that you never will betray my confidence -- that you will respect it, even though you may no longer respect me,-- and I shall be as satisfied as if you had sworn it
Madam, on the honour of a poor gentleman
Thank you. I can desire no more. Mr Twemlow, I implore you to save that child
That child
Georgiana. She will be sacrificed. She will be inveigled and married to that connexion of yours. It is a partnership affair, a money-speculation. She has no strength of will or character to help herself and she is on the brink of being sold into wretchedness for life
Amazing! But what can I do to prevent it
Here is another portrait. And not good, is it
Decidedly not good
Stiff and exaggerated
And ex --' But Twemlow, in his demolished state, cannot command the word, and trails off into
Mr Twemlow, your word will have weight with her pompous, self-blinded father. You know how much he makes of your family. Lose no time. Warn him
But warn him against whom
Against me
Sophronia, my dear, what portraits are you showing Twemlow
Public characters, Alfred
Show him the last of me
Yes, Alfred
That is the last of Mr Lammle. Do you think it good?-- Warn her father against me. I deserve it, for I have been in the scheme from the first. It is my husband's scheme, your connexion's, and mine. I tell you this, only to show you the necessity of the poor little foolish affectionate creature's being befriended and rescued. You will not repeat this to her father. You will spare me so far, and spare my husband. For, though this celebration of to-day is all a mockery, he is my husband, and we must live.-- Do you think it like
Very well indeed
I am glad you think so. On the whole, I myself consider it the best. The others are so dark. Now here, for instance, is another of Mr Lammle
But I don't understand; I don't see my way
How warn her father, and not tell him? Tell him how much? Tell him how little? I -- I -- am getting lost
Tell him I am a match-maker; tell him I am an artful and designing woman; tell him you are sure his daughter is best out of my house and my company. Tell him any such things of me; they will all be true. You know what a puffed-up man he is, and how easily you can cause his vanity to take the alarm. Tell him as much as will give him the alarm and make him careful of her, and spare me the rest. Mr Twemlow, I feel my sudden degradation in your eyes; familiar as I am with my degradation in my own eyes, I keenly feel the change that must have come upon me in yours, in these last few moments. But I trust to your good faith with me as implicitly as when I began. If you knew how often I have tried to speak to you to-day, you would almost pity me. I want no new promise from you on my own account, for I am satisfied, and I always shall be satisfied, with the promise you have given me. I can venture to say no more, for I see that I am watched. If you would set my mind at rest with the assurance that you will interpose with the father and save this harmless girl, close that book before you return it to me, and I shall know what you mean, and deeply thank you in my heart.-- Alfred, Mr Twemlow thinks the last one the best, and quite agrees with you and me
Hold your row!-- I'll come and open the door directly
Why, what time of night do you mean to call it
Sir, it is full half-past ten in the morning
The deuce it is! Then it must be precious foggy
Very foggy, sir
And raw, then
Chill and bitter
Any snow, or sleet, or slush, or anything of that sort
No, sir, no. Not quite so bad as that. The streets are pretty clean
You needn't brag about it
But you're always bragging about something. Got the books there
They are here, sir
All right. I'll turn the general subject over in my mind for a minute or two, and while I'm about it you can empty your bag and get ready for me
un
what dodgery are you up to next, sitting there with your eyes shut? You ain't asleep. Catch a weasel at it, and catch a Jew
Truly, sir, I fear I nodded
Not you
A telling move with a good many, I dare say, but it won't put ME off my guard. Not a bad notion though, if you want to look indifferent in driving a bargain. Oh, you are a dodger
Now
Fork out your balance in hand, and prove by figures how you make it out that it ain't more. First of all, light that candle
I suppose
you haven't been lightening any of these; but it's a trade of your people's, you know. YOU understand what sweating a pound means, don't you
Much as you do, sir
May I take the liberty to say something
You may
Do you not, sir -- without intending it -- of a surety without intending it -- sometimes mingle the character I fairly earn in your employment, with the character which it is your policy that I should bear
I don't find it worth my while to cut things so fine as to go into the inquiry
Not in justice
Bother justice
Not in generosity
Jews and generosity
That's a good connexion! Bring out your vouchers, and don't talk Jerusalem palaver
Next
concerning that bill-broking branch of the business; the branch I like best. What queer bills are to be bought, and at what prices? You have got your list of what's in the market
Sir, a long list
Whew
Queer Street is full of lodgers just at present! These are to be disposed of in parcels; are they
In parcels as set forth
or the lump
Half the lump will be waste-paper, one knows beforehand
Can you get it at waste-paper price? That's the question
Hark! That's your doing, you Pump of Israel
you can't have shut it
Are you anywhere here, Fledgeby
Here I am
Come in
This gentleman is only Pubsey and Co. of Saint Mary Axe, that I am trying to make terms for an unfortunate friend with in a matter of some dishonoured bills. But really Pubsey and Co. are so strict with their debtors, and so hard to move, that I seem to be wasting my time. Can't I make ANY terms with you on my friend's part, Mr Riah
I am but the representative of another, sir
I do as I am bidden by my principal. It is not my capital that is invested in the business. It is not my profit that arises therefrom
Ha ha
Lammle
Ha ha
Yes. Of course. We know
Devilish good, ain't it, Lammle
Always the same, always the same
Mr
Riah, Pubsey and Co. Saint Mary Axe
Mr Riah is bound to observe the invaRiahle forms for such cases made and provided
He is only the representative of another
Does as he is told by his principal! Not his capital that's invested in the business. Oh, that's good! Ha ha ha ha
However
if we go on in this way, we shall seem to be almost making game of Mr Riah, or of Pubsey and Co. Saint Mary Axe, or of somebody: which is far from our intention. Mr Riah, if you would have the kindness to step into the next room for a few moments while I speak with Mr Lammle here, I should like to try to make terms with you once again before you go
Halloa
There's something wrong
How do you know it
Because you show it
Well then; there is
there IS something wrong; the whole thing's wrong
I say
I tell you, Fledgeby
the whole thing's wrong. The game's up
What game's up
THE game. OUR game. Read that
Alfred Lammle, Esquire. Sir: Allow Mrs Podsnap and myself to express our united sense of the polite attentions of Mrs Alfred Lammle and yourself towards our daughter, Georgiana. Allow us also, wholly to reject them for the future, and to communicate our final desire that the two families may become entire strangers. I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, JOHN PODSNAP
Whose doing is this
Impossible to imagine
Perhaps
somebody has been giving you a bad character
Or you
Well
This won't improve with talking about. If we ever find out who did it, we'll mark that person. There's nothing more to be said, except that you undertook to do what circumstances prevent your doing
And that you undertook to do what you might have done by this time, if you had made a prompter use of circumstances
Hah! That
is matter of opinion
Mr Fledgeby
am I to understand that you in any way reflect upon me, or hint dissatisfaction with me, in this affair
No
provided you have brought my promissory note in your pocket, and now hand it over
NOW, Mr Fledgeby
am I to understand that you in any way reflect upon me, or hint dissatisfaction with me, in this affair
No
Finally and unreservedly no
Yes
Fledgeby, my hand
And if we ever find out who did this, we'll mark that person. And in the most friendly manner, let me mention one thing more. I don't know what your circumstances are, and I don't ask. You have sustained a loss here. Many men are liable to be involved at times, and you may be, or you may not be. But whatever you do, Lammle, don't -- don't -- don't, I beg of you -- ever fall into the hands of Pubsey and Co. in the next room, for they are grinders. Regular flayers and grinders, my dear Lammle
and they'll skin you by the inch, from the nape of your neck to the sole of your foot, and grind every inch of your skin to tooth-powder. You have seen what Mr Riah is. Never fall into his hands, Lammle, I beg of you as a friend
To confess the fact, I was made a little uneasy
by the manner in which that Jew looked at you when he heard your name. I didn't like his eye. But it may have been the heated fancy of a friend. Of course if you are sure that you have no personal security out, which you may not be quite equal to meeting, and which can have got into his hands, it must have been fancy. Still, I didn't like his eye
But I mustn't keep him waiting too long
or he'll revenge it on my unfortunate friend. How's your very clever and agreeable wife? She knows we have broken down
I showed her the letter
Very much surprised
I think she would have been more so
if there had been more go in YOU
Oh!-- She lays it upon me, then
Mr Fledgeby, I will not have my words misconstrued
Don't break out, Lammle
because there's no occasion. I only asked a question. Then she don't lay it upon me? To ask another question
No, sir
Very good
My compliments to her. Good-bye
You have a pair of whiskers, Lammle, which I never liked
and which money can't produce; you are boastful of your manners and your conversation; you wanted to pull my nose, and you have let me in for a failure, and your wife says I am the cause of it. I'll bowl you down. I will, though I have no whiskers
and no manners, and no conversation
Halloa, you sir
Good! Good! Upon my soul it is uncommon good
un
you'll buy up these lots that I mark with my pencil -- there's a tick there, and a tick there, and a tick there -- and I wager two-pence you'll afterwards go on squeezing those Christians like the Jew you are. Now, next you'll want a cheque -- or you'll say you want it, though you've capital enough somewhere, if one only knew where, but you'd be peppered and salted and grilled on a gridiron before you'd own to it -- and that cheque I'll write
un
so much at present for my affairs. Now a word about affairs that are not exactly mine. Where is she
Oho
Didn't expect it! Where have you hidden her
Is she in the house I pay rent and taxes for in Saint Mary Axe
No, sir
Is she in your garden up atop of that house -- gone up to be dead, or whatever the game is
No, sir
Where is she then
Come
I won't press that just now. But I want to know this, and I will know this, mind you. What are you up to
You can't be a gallivanting dodger
For you're a "regular pity the sorrows", you know -- if you DO know any Christian rhyme --"whose trembling limbs have borne him to"-- et cetrer. You're one of the Patriarchs; you're a shaky old card; and you can't be in love with this Lizzie
O, sir
O, sir, sir, sir
Then why
don't you out with your reason for having your spoon in the soup at all
Sir, I will tell you the truth. But (your pardon for the stipulation) it is in sacred confidence; it is strictly upon honour
Honour too
Honour among Jews. Well. Cut away
It is upon honour, sir
Oh, certainly. Honour bright
Cut away
Start with your motive
Sir, I have no motive but to help the helpless
How I came to know, and much to esteem and to respect, this damsel, I mentioned when you saw her in my poor garden on the house-top
Did you
Well. Perhaps you did, though
The better I knew her, the more interest I felt in her fortunes. They gathered to a crisis. I found her beset by a selfish and ungrateful brother, beset by an unacceptable wooer, beset by the snares of a more powerful lover, beset by the wiles of her own heart
She took to one of the chaps then
Sir, it was only natural that she should incline towards him, for he had many and great advantages. But he was not of her station, and to marry her was not in his mind. Perils were closing round her, and the circle was fast darkening, when I -- being as you have said, sir, too old and broken to be suspected of any feeling for her but a father's -- stepped in, and counselled flight. I said, "My daughter, there are times of moral danger when the hardest virtuous resolution to form is flight, and when the most heroic bravery is flight." She answered, she had had this in her thoughts; but whither to fly without help she knew not, and there were none to help her. I showed her there was one to help her, and it was I. And she is gone
What did you do with her
I placed her
at a distance;' with a grave smooth outward sweep from one another of his two open hands at arm's length; 'at a distance -- among certain of our people, where her industry would serve her, and where she could hope to exercise it, unassailed from any quarter
at a distance
Placed her in that direction, did you? Oh you circular old dodger
Lizzie
Humph, Lizzie. You didn't tell me the other name in your garden atop of the house. I'll be more communicative with you. The other name's Hexam
Look here, you sir
I have a notion I know something of the inveigling chap, the powerful one. Has he anything to do with the law
Nominally, I believe it his calling
I thought so. Name anything like Lightwood
Sir, not at all like
un
say the name
Wrayburn
By Jupiter
un! Go on and prosper
No
you may toddle now, Judah, and grope about on the orders you have got
Well done you
Slow, you may be; sure, you are
A tidy shot that, I flatter myself
And a Jew brought down with it! Now, when I heard the story told at Lammle's, I didn't make a jump at Riah. Not a hit of it; I got at him by degrees
I got at him
by degrees. If your Lammles or your Lightwoods had got at him anyhow, they would have asked him the question whether he hadn't something to do with that gal's disappearance. I knew a better way of going to work. Having got behind the hedge, and put him in the light, I took a shot at him and brought him down plump. Oh! It don't count for much, being a Jew, in a match against ME
As to Christians
look out, fellow- Christians, particularly you that lodge in Queer Street! I have got the run of Queer Street now, and you shall see some games there. To work a lot of power over you and you not know it, knowing as you think yourselves, would be almost worth laying out money upon. But when it comes to squeezing a profit out of you into the bargain, it's something like
Good evening, godmother
Won't you come in and warm yourself, godmother
Not if you are ready, Cinderella, my dear
Well
Now you ARE a clever old boy! If we gave prizes at this establishment (but we only keep blanks), you should have the first silver medal, for taking me up so quick
No, no, no! I'll carry it myself
I'm awfully lopsided, you know, and stowed down in my pocket it'll trim the ship. To let you into a secret, godmother, I wear my pocket on my high side, o' purpose
Yes, it was truly sharp of you, godmother
to understand me. But, you see, you ARE so like the fairy godmother in the bright little books! You look so unlike the rest of people, and so much as if you had changed yourself into that shape, just this moment, with some benevolent object. Boh
I can see your features, godmother, behind the beard
Does the fancy go to my changing other objects too, Jenny
Ah! That it does! If you'd only borrow my stick and tap this piece of pavement -- this dirty stone that my foot taps -- it would start up a coach and six. I say! Let's believe so
With all my heart
And I'll tell you what I must ask you to do, godmother. I must ask you to be so kind as give my child a tap, and change him altogether. O my child has been such a bad, bad child of late! It worries me nearly out of my wits. Not done a stroke of work these ten days. Has had the horrors, too, and fancied that four copper- coloured men in red wanted to throw him into a fiery furnace
But that's dangerous, Jenny
Dangerous, godmother? My child is always dangerous, more or less. He might
be setting the house on fire at this present moment. I don't know who would have a child, for my part! It's no use shaking him. I have shaken him till I have made myself giddy. "Why don't you mind your Commandments and honour your parent, you naughty old boy?" I said to him all the time. But he only whimpered and stared at me
What shall be changed, after him
Upon my word, godmother, I am afraid I must be selfish next, and get you to set me right in the back and the legs. It's a little thing to you with your power, godmother, but it's a great deal to poor weak aching me
And then
Yes, and then -- YOU know, godmother. We'll both jump up into the coach and six and go to Lizzie. This reminds me, godmother, to ask you a serious question. You are as wise as wise can be (having been brought up by the fairies), and you can tell me this: Is it better to have had a good thing and lost it, or never to have had it
Explain, god-daughter
I feel so much more solitary and helpless without Lizzie now, than I used to feel before I knew her
Some beloved companionship fades out of most lives, my dear
that of a wife, and a fair daughter, and a son of promise, has faded out of my own life -- but the happiness was
Ah
then I tell you what change I think you had better begin with, godmother. You had better change Is into Was and Was into Is, and keep them so
Would that suit your case? Would you not be always in pain then
Right
You have changed me wiser, godmother.-- Not
that you need be a very wonderful godmother to do that deed
Now look at 'em! All my work
Pretty, pretty, pretty
Most elegant taste
Glad you like 'em
But the fun is, godmother, how I make the great ladies try my dresses on. Though it's the hardest part of my business, and would be, even if my back were not bad and my legs queer
Bless you, godmother
I have to scud about town at all hours. If it was only sitting at my bench, cutting out and sewing, it would be comparatively easy work; but it's the trying-on by the great ladies that takes it out of me
How, the trying-on
What a mooney godmother you are, after all
Look here. There's a Drawing Room, or a grand day in the Park, or a Show, or a Fete, or what you like. Very well. I squeeze among the crowd, and I look about me. When I see a great lady very suitable for my business, I say "You'll do, my dear
How that little creature is staring
'em, just the same. When they go bobbing into the hall from the carriage, and catch a glimpse of my little physiognomy poked out from behind a policeman's cape in the rain, I dare say they think I am wondering and admiring with all my eyes and heart, but they little think they're only working for my dolls! There was Lady Belinda Whitrose. I made her do double duty in one night. I said when she came out of the carriage, "YOU'll do, my dear!" and I ran straight home and cut her out and basted her. Back I came again, and waited behind the men that called the carriages. Very bad night too. At last, "Lady Belinda Whitrose's carriage! Lady Belinda Whitrose coming down!" And I made her try on -- oh! and take pains about it too -- before she got seated. That's Lady Belinda hanging up by the waist, much too near the gaslight for a wax one, with her toes turned in
Now then, what's for you
Could we see Miss Potterson
You not only could, but you can and you do
Might we speak with you, madam
Yes, come in and rest by the fire
My name is Riah
and my avocation is in London city. This, my young companion
Stop a bit
I'll give the lady my card
Lud
We take the liberty of coming, my young companion and I, madam
on behalf of Lizzie Hexam
Lizzie Hexam is a very proud young woman
She would be so proud
to stand well in your good opinion, that before she quitted London for
For where, in the name of the Cape of Good Hope
For the country
she made us promise to come and show you a paper, which she left in our hands for that special purpose. I am an unserviceable friend of hers, who began to know her after her departure from this neighbourhood. She has been for some time living with my young companion, and has been a helpful and a comfortable friend to her. Much needed, madam
Believe me; if you knew all, much needed
I can believe that
And if it's proud to have a heart that never hardens, and a temper that never tires, and a touch that never hurts
she is proud. And if it's not, she is NOT
You do right, child
to speak well of those who deserve well of you
Right or wrong
I mean to do it, and you may make up your mind to THAT, old lady
Here is the paper, madam
Will you please to read it
But first of all
did you ever taste shrub, child
Should you like to
Should if it's good
You shall try. And, if you find it good, I'll mix some for you with hot water. Put your poor little feet on the fender. It's a cold, cold night, and the fog clings so
Why, what lovely hair
And enough to make wigs for all the dolls in the world. What a quantity
Call THAT a quantity
Poof! What do you say to the rest of it
Child, or woman
Child in years
woman in self-reliance and trial
You are talking about Me, good people
I can't hear what you say, but I know your tricks and your manners
As far as this goes
it proves (what didn't much need proving) that Rogue Riderhood is a villain. I have my doubts whether he is not the villain who solely did the deed; but I have no expectation of those doubts ever being cleared up now. I believe I did Lizzie's father wrong, but never Lizzie's self; because when things were at the worst I trusted her, had perfect confidence in her, and tried to persuade her to come to me for a refuge. I am very sorry to have done a man wrong, particularly when it can't be undone. Be kind enough to let Lizzie know what I say; not forgetting that if she will come to the Porters, after all, bygones being bygones, she will find a home at the Porters, and a friend at the Porters. She knows Miss Abbey of old, remind her, and she knows what-like the home, and what-like the friend, is likely to turn out. I am generally short and sweet -- or short and sour, according as it may be and as opinions vary --' remarked Miss Abbey, 'and that's about all I have got to say, and enough too
It's not long, sir
and perhaps you wouldn't mind just jotting it down
What is it
It's summut run down in the fog, ma'am
There's ever so many people in the river
Tell 'em to put on all the kettles
See that the boiler's full. Get a bath out. Hang some blankets to the fire. Heat some stone bottles. Have your senses about you, you girls down stairs, and use 'em
Come and look
Does anybody down there know what has happened
It's a steamer, Miss Abbey
It always IS a steamer, Miss Abbey
Them's her lights, Miss Abbey, wot you see a-blinking yonder
She's a-blowing off her steam, Miss Abbey, and that's what makes the fog and the noise worse, don't you see
There
There again
A couple more strokes a- head
Hurrah
Look out
Hold on
Haul in
If that's Tom Tootle
let him instantly come underneath here
What is it, Tootle
It's a foreign steamer, miss, run down a wherry
How many in the wherry
One man, Miss Abbey
Found
Yes. He's been under water a long time, Miss; but they've grappled up the body
Let 'em bring it here. You, Bob Gliddery, shut the house-door and stand by it on the inside, and don't you open till I tell you. Any police down there
Here, Miss Abbey
After they have brought the body in, keep the crowd out, will you? And help Bob Gliddery to shut 'em out
All right, Miss Abbey
You two stand close here
and you'll come to no hurt, and see it brought in. Bob, you stand by the door
That's the stretcher, or the shutter, whichever of the two they are carrying
Open, you Bob
Come on, men
First floor
Why, good God
that's the very man who made the declaration we have just had in our hands. That's Riderhood
Fetch a doctor
Fetch his daughter
He was slinking about in his boat
which slinking were, not to speak ill of the dead, the manner of the man, when he come right athwart the steamer's bows and she cut him in two
to mutton in a butcher's shop
Thank you, Miss Abbey, for having father here
I am bound to say, girl, I didn't know who it was
but I hope it would have been pretty much the same if I had known
Is there no hope, sir? O poor father! Is poor father dead
Now, my girl, unless you have the self-command to be perfectly quiet, I cannot allow you to remain in the room
Father, you were run down on the river, and are at Miss Abbey Potterson's
He will do now
Many a better man
ain't had his luck
It's to be hoped he'll make a better use of his life
than I expect he will
Or than he done afore
But no, not he
However
you have done your duty like good and true men, and you had better come down and take something at the expense of the Porters
His gills looks rum; don't they
His gills'll look rummer when he wakes; won't they
When he finds himself here, you know
Cause Miss Abbey forbid him the house and ordered him out of it. But what you may call the Fates ordered him into it again. Which is rumness; ain't it
He wouldn't have come here of his own accord
No
Nor he wouldn't have been let in, if he had
I'll take him away ever so soon as I can
he's best at home
Well, Riderhood
how do you feel
Nothing to boast on
I don't mean to preach; but I hope
that this escape may have a good effect upon you, Riderhood
Warn't it a steamer
Yes, father
I'll have the law on her, bust her! and make her pay for it
Where's my fur cap
In the river
And warn't there no honest man to pick it up? O' course there was though, and to cut off with it arterwards. You are a rare lot, all on you
Hold still, can't you? What! You must be a staggering next, must you
what on earth Pa ever could have seen in Ma, to induce him to make such a little fool of himself as to ask her to have him
I shall not require the carriage at night
I shall walk back
Well, dear Ma
and how do you do
I am as well, Bella
as can be expected
Dear me, Ma
you talk as if one was just born
That's exactly what Ma has been doing
ever since we got up this morning. It's all very well to laugh, Bella, but anything more exasperating it is impossible to conceive
Mr Rokesmith
has been so polite as to place his sitting-room at our disposal to-day. You will therefore, Bella, be entertained in the humble abode of your parents, so far in accordance with your present style of living, that there will be a drawing-room for your reception as well as a dining-room. Your papa invited Mr Rokesmith to partake of our lowly fare. In excusing himself on account of a particular engagement, he offered the use of his apartment
We should only have put one another out of countenance
and we do that quite often enough as it is
Oh, indeed, sir
Oh, indeed, sir! I fancy I can guess whom you think THAT'S like. But I'll tell you what it's much more like -- your impudence
Now, Ma
you and Lavvy think magnificent me fit for nothing, but I intend to prove the contrary. I mean to be Cook today
Hold
I cannot permit it. Cook, in that dress
As for my dress, Ma
I mean to apron it and towel it all over the front; and as to permission, I mean to do without
YOU cook
YOU, who never cooked when you were at home
Yes, Ma
that is precisely the state of the case
Now, Ma
what's first
First
if you persist in what I cannot but regard as conduct utterly incompatible with the equipage in which you arrived
Which I do, Ma
First, then, you put the fowls down to the fire
To -- be -- sure
and flour them, and twirl them round, and there they go
What's next, Ma
Next
I would recommend examination of the bacon in the saucepan on the fire, and also of the potatoes by the application of a fork. Preparation of the greens will further become necessary if you persist in this unseemly demeanour
As of course I do, Ma
Look at Ma
If one was the most dutiful child in existence (of course on the whole one hopes one is), isn't she enough to make one want to poke her with something wooden, sitting there bolt upright in a corner
Only suppose
that poor Pa was to sit bolt upright in another corner
My dear, he couldn't do it
Pa would loll directly. But indeed I do not believe there ever was any human creature who could keep so bolt upright as Ma, 'or put such an amount of aggravation into one back! What's the matter, Ma? Ain't you well, Ma
Doubtless I am very well
What should be the matter with Me
You don't seem very brisk, Ma
Brisk
Brisk? Whence the low expression, Lavinia? If I am uncomplaining, if I am silently contented with my lot, let that suffice for my family
Well, Ma
since you will force it out of me, I must respectfully take leave to say that your family are no doubt under the greatest obligations to you for having an annual toothache on your wedding day, and that it's very disinterested in you, and an immense blessing to them. Still, on the whole, it is possible to be too boastful even of that boon
You incarnation of sauciness
do you speak like that to me? On this day, of all days in the year? Pray do you know what would have become of you, if I had not bestowed my hand upon R. W., your father, on this day
No, Ma
I really do not; and, with the greatest respect for your abilities and information, I very much doubt if you do either
I congratulate you, Mrs Wilfer
on the day
I am surprised
that Miss Bella condescends to cook
For what we are about to receive
But what
makes them pink inside, I wonder, Pa! Is it the breed
No, I don't think it's the breed, my dear
I rather think it is because they are not done
They ought to be
Yes, I am aware they ought to be, my dear
but they -- ain't
My dear, I am afraid you are not enjoying yourself
Why so, R. W
Because, my dear, you seem a little out of sorts
Not at all
Would you take a merry-thought, my dear
Thank you. I will take whatever you please, R. W
Well, but my dear, do you like it
I like it as well as I like anything, R. W
Thank you, my dear. And I to you
Pa and Ma
Permit me
No. I think not. I drank to your papa. If, however, you insist on including me, I can in gratitude offer no objection
Why, Lor, Ma
isn't it the day that made you and Pa one and the same? I have no patience
By whatever other circumstance the day may be marked, it is not the day, Lavinia, on which I will allow a child of mine to pounce upon me. I beg -- nay, command!-- that you will not pounce. R. W., it is appropriate to recall that it is for you to command and for me to obey. It is your house, and you are master at your own table. Both our healths
I really am a little afraid, my dear
that you are not enjoying yourself
On the contrary
quite so. Why should I not
I thought, my dear, that perhaps your face might
My face might be a martyrdom, but what would that import, or who should know it, if I smiled
The mind naturally falls
shall I say into a reverie, or shall I say into a retrospect? on a day like this
For goodness' sake say whichever of the two you like best, Ma, and get it over
The mind
naturally reverts to Papa and Mamma -- I here allude to my parents -- at a period before the earliest dawn of this day. I was considered tall; perhaps I was. Papa and Mamma were unquestionably tall. I have rarely seen a finer women than my mother; never than my father
Whatever grandpapa was, he wasn't a female
Your grandpapa
was what I describe him to have been, and would have struck any of his grandchildren to the earth who presumed to question it. It was one of mamma's cherished hopes that I should become united to a tall member of society. It may have been a weakness, but if so, it was equally the weakness, I believe, of King Frederick of Prussia
Mamma would appear to have had an indefinable foreboding of what afterwards happened, for she would frequently urge upon me, "Not a little man. Promise me, my child, not a little man. Never, never, never, marry a little man!" Papa also would remark to me (he possessed extraordinary humour), "that a family of whales must not ally themselves with sprats." His company was eagerly sought, as may be supposed, by the wits of the day, and our house was their continual resort. I have known as many as three copper-plate engravers exchanging the most exquisite sallies and retorts there, at one time
Among the most prominent members of that distinguished circle, was a gentleman measuring six feet four in height. HE was NOT an engraver
This gentleman was so obliging as to honour me with attentions which I could not fail to understand
I immediately announced to both my parents that those attentions were misplaced, and that I could not favour his suit. They inquired was he too tall? I replied it was not the stature, but the intellect was too lofty. At our house, I said, the tone was too brilliant, the pressure was too high, to be maintained by me, a mere woman, in every-day domestic life. I well remember mamma's clasping her hands, and exclaiming "This will end in a little man
She afterwards went so far as to predict that it would end in a little man whose mind would be below the average, but that was in what I may denominate a paroxysm of maternal disappointment. Within a month
within a-month, I first saw R. W. my husband. Within a year, I married him. It is natural for the mind to recall these dark coincidences on the present day
My dear, I am really afraid you are not altogether enjoying yourself
On the contrary, R. W. Quite so
Well, dear Pa
the anniversary may be considered over
Yes, my dear
there's another of 'em gone
Thank you, my dear
I am all right, my dear. Well, and how do you get on, Bella
I am not at all improved, Pa
Ain't you really though
No, Pa. On the contrary, I am worse
Lor
I am worse, Pa. I make so many calculations how much a year I must have when I marry, and what is the least I can manage to do with, that I am beginning to get wrinkles over my nose. Did you notice any wrinkles over my nose this evening, Pa
You won't laugh, sir, when you see your lovely woman turning haggard. You had better be prepared in time, I can tell you. I shall not be able to keep my greediness for money out of my eyes long, and when you see it there you'll be sorry, and serve you right for not being warned in time. Now, sir, we entered into a bond of confidence. Have you anything to impart
I thought it was you who was to impart, my love
Oh! did you indeed, sir? Then why didn't you ask me, the moment we came out? The confidences of lovely women are not to be slighted. However, I forgive you this once, and look here, Pa
that's a kiss for you. And now I am going seriously to tell you -- let me see how many -- four secrets. Mind! Serious, grave, weighty secrets. Strictly between ourselves
Number one, my dear
Number one
will electrify you, Pa. Who do you think
has made an offer to me
Mr Rokesmith
You don't tell me so, my dear
Mis -- ter Roke -- smith, Pa
What do you say to THAT
What did YOU say to that, my love
I said No
Of course
Yes. Of course
And I told him why I thought it a betrayal of trust on his part, and an affront to me
Yes. To be sure. I am astonished indeed. I wonder he committed himself without seeing more of his way first. Now I think of it, I suspect he always has admired you though, my dear
A hackney coachman may admire me
It's highly probable, my love. Number two, my dear
Number two, Pa, is much to the same purpose, though not so preposterous. Mr Lightwood would propose to me, if I would let him
Then I understand, my dear, that you don't intend to let him
Why, of course not
Of course not
I don't care for him
That's enough
No, Pa, it's NOT enough
Haven't I told you what a mercenary little wretch I am? It only becomes enough when he has no money, and no clients, and no expectations, and no anything but debts
Hah
Number three, my dear
Number three, Pa, is a better thing. A generous thing, a noble thing, a delightful thing. Mrs Boffin has herself told me, as a secret, with her own kind lips -- and truer lips never opened or closed in this life, I am sure -- that they wish to see me well married; and that when I marry with their consent they will portion me most handsomely
Don't cry, my darling
it's excusable in me to be a little overcome when I find that my dear favourite child is, after all disappointments, to be so provided for and so raised in the world; but don't YOU cry, don't YOU cry. I am very thankful. I congratulate you with all my heart, my dear
Number four, my dear
After all, perhaps I had better put off number four, Pa. Let me try once more, if for never so short a time, to hope that it may not really be so
May not be so, my dear? May not be how, my dear
And yet I know right well it is so, Pa. I know it only too well
My love
you make me quite uncomfortable. Have you said No to anybody else, my dear
No, Pa
Yes to anybody
No, Pa
Is there anybody else who would take his chance between Yes and No, if you would let him, my dear
Not that I know of, Pa
There can't be somebody who won't take his chance when you want him to
No, of course not
Bella, my dear, I am afraid I must either have no sleep to-night, or I must press for number four
Oh, Pa, there is no good in number four! I am so sorry for it, I am so unwilling to believe it, I have tried so earnestly not to see it, that it is very hard to tell, even to you. But Mr Boffin is being spoilt by prosperity, and is changing every day
My dear Bella, I hope and trust not
I have hoped and trusted not too, Pa; but every day he changes for the worse, and for the worse. Not to me -- he is always much the same to me -- but to others about him. Before my eyes he grows suspicious, capricious, hard, tyrannical, unjust. If ever a good man were ruined by good fortune, it is my benefactor. And yet, Pa, think how terrible the fascination of money is! I see this, and hate this, and dread this, and don't know but that money might make a much worse change in me. And yet I have money always in my thoughts and my desires; and the whole life I place before myself is money, money, money, and what money can make of life
You are busy, sir
Not at all, my dear, not at all. You're one of ourselves. We never make company of you. Come in, come in. Here's the old lady in her usual place
Now, Rokesmith
where were we
You were saying, sir
that you considered the time had come for fixing my salary
Don't be above calling it wages, man
What the deuce! I never talked of any salary when I was in service
My wages
Rokesmith, you are not proud, I hope
I hope not, sir
Because I never was, when I was poor
Poverty and pride don't go at all well together. Mind that. How can they go well together? Why it stands to reason. A man, being poor, has nothing to be proud of. It's nonsense
Now, concerning these same wages
Sit down
Why didn't you sit down before
I hope that wasn't pride? But about these wages. Now, I've gone into the matter, and I say two hundred a year. What do you think of it? Do you think it's enough
Thank you. It is a fair proposal
I don't say, you know
but what it may be more than enough. And I'll tell you why, Rokesmith. A man of property, like me, is bound to consider the market-price. At first I didn't enter into that as much as I might have done; but I've got acquainted with other men of property since, and I've got acquainted with the duties of property. I mustn't go putting the market-price up, because money may happen not to be an object with me. A sheep is worth so much in the market, and I ought to give it and no more. A secretary is worth so much in the market, and I ought to give it and no more. However, I don't mind stretching a point with you
Mr Boffin, you are very good
Then we put the figure
at two hundred a year. Then the figure's disposed of. Now, there must be no misunderstanding regarding what I buy for two hundred a year. If I pay for a sheep, I buy it out and out. Similarly, if I pay for a secretary, I buy HIM out and out
In other words, you purchase my whole time
Certainly I do. Look here
it ain't that I want to occupy your whole time; you can take up a book for a minute or two when you've nothing better to do, though I think you'll a'most always find something useful to do. But I want to keep you in attendance. It's convenient to have you at all times ready on the premises. Therefore, betwixt your breakfast and your supper,-- on the premises I expect to find you
In bygone days, when I was in service myself
I couldn't go cutting about at my will and pleasure, and you won't expect to go cutting about at your will and pleasure. You've rather got into a habit of that, lately; but perhaps it was for want of a right specification betwixt us. Now, let there be a right specification betwixt us, and let it be this. If you want leave, ask for it
I'll have a bell
hung from this room to yours, and when I want you, I'll touch it. I don't call to mind that I have anything more to say at the present moment
I have let that chap, that young man of mine
Noddy
My dear
Excuse my putting it to you, Noddy, but now really! Haven't you been a little strict with Mr Rokesmith to-night? Haven't you been a little -- just a little little -- not quite like your old self
Why, old woman, I hope so
Hope so, deary
Our old selves wouldn't do here, old lady. Haven't you found that out yet? Our old selves would be fit for nothing here but to be robbed and imposed upon. Our old selves weren't people of fortune; our new selves are; it's a great difference
Ah
A great difference
And we must be up to the difference
we must be equal to the change; that's what we must be. We've got to hold our own now, against everybody (for everybody's hand is stretched out to be dipped into our pockets), and we have got to recollect that money makes money, as well as makes everything else
Mentioning recollecting
do you recollect, Noddy, how you said to Mr Rokesmith when he first came to see us at the Bower, and you engaged him -- how you said to him that if it had pleased Heaven to send John Harmon to his fortune safe, we could have been content with the one Mound which was our legacy, and should never have wanted the rest
Ay, I remember, old lady. But we hadn't tried what it was to have the rest then. Our new shoes had come home, but we hadn't put 'em on. We're wearing 'em now, we're wearing 'em, and must step out accordingly
As to Rokesmith, that young man of mine
it's the same with him as with the footmen. I have found out that you must either scrunch them, or let them scrunch you. If you ain't imperious with 'em, they won't believe in your being any better than themselves, if as good, after the stories (lies mostly) that they have heard of your beginnings. There's nothing betwixt stiffening yourself up, and throwing yourself away; take my word for that, old lady
Hows'ever
this isn't entertaining to Miss Bella. Is it, Bella
Hah! Better employed than to attend to it
That's right, that's right. Especially as you have no call to be told how to value yourself, my dear
I hope sir, you don't think me vain
Not a bit, my dear
But I think it's very creditable in you, at your age, to be so well up with the pace of the world, and to know what to go in for. You are right. Go in for money, my love. Money's the article. You'll make money of your good looks, and of the money Mrs Boffin and me will have the pleasure of settling upon you, and you'll live and die rich. That's the state to live and die in
Don't mind him, Bella, my dear
Eh
What! Not mind him
I don't mean that
but I mean, don't believe him to be anything but good and generous, Bella, because he is the best of men. No, I must say that much, Noddy. You are always the best of men
And as to you, my dear Bella
he is so much attached to you, whatever he says, that your own father has not a truer interest in you and can hardly like you better than he does
Says too
Whatever he says! Why, I say so, openly. Give me a kiss, my dear child, in saying Good Night, and let me confirm what my old lady tells you. I am very fond of you, my dear, and I am entirely of your mind, and you and I will take care that you shall be rich. These good looks of yours (which you have some right to be vain of; my dear, though you are not, you know) are worth money, and you shall make money of 'em. The money you will have, will be worth money, and you shall make money of that too. There's a golden ball at your feet. Good night, my dear
Why, what need to excuse him
What he said was very sensible, I am sure, and very true, I am sure. It is only what I often say to myself. Don't I like it then? No, I don't like it, and, though he is my liberal benefactor, I disparage him for it. Then pray
what do you mean by this, you inconsistent little Beast
Look in here, my dear
you can read at sight, and your eyes are as sharp as they're bright. Now, look well about you, my dear, and tell me if you see any book about a Miser
Now, look well all round, my dear, for a Life of a Miser, or any book of that sort; any Lives of odd characters who may have been Misers
Mrs Lammle is a younger companion for her than I am, and Lor! she's more fashionable
I fear, Bella dear
that you will be very hard to please
I don't expect to be pleased, dear
Truly, my love
it would not be very easy to find a man worthy of your attractions
The question is not a man, my dear
but an establishment
My love
your prudence amazes me -- where DID you study life so well!-- you are right. In such a case as yours, the object is a fitting establishment. You could not descend to an inadequate one from Mr Boffin's house, and even if your beauty alone could not command it, it is to be assumed that Mr and Mrs Boffin will
Oh! they have already
No! Have they really
That is to say
they have told me they mean to portion me as their adopted child, if you mean that. But don't mention it
Mention it
Men-tion it
I don't mind telling you, Mrs Lammle
My love, say Sophronia, or I must not say Bella
Oh
Oh!-- Sophronia then -- I don't mind telling you, Sophronia, that I am convinced I have no heart, as people call it; and that I think that sort of thing is nonsense
Brave girl
And so
as to seeking to please myself, I don't; except in the one respect I have mentioned. I am indifferent otherwise
But you can't help pleasing, Bella
you can't help making a proud and an admiring husband. You may not care to please yourself, and you may not care to please him, but you are not a free agent as to pleasing: you are forced to do that, in spite of yourself, my dear; so it may be a question whether you may not as well please yourself too, if you can
Don't talk of pleasing in spite of one's self, dear
I have had enough of that
Ay
Am I already corroborated, Bella
Never mind, Sophronia, we will not speak of it any more. Don't ask me about it
Tell me, Bella. Come, my dear. What provoking burr has been inconveniently attracted to the charming skirts, and with difficulty shaken off
Provoking indeed
and no burr to boast of! But don't ask me
Shall I guess
You would never guess. What would you say to our Secretary
My dear! The hermit Secretary, who creeps up and down the back stairs, and is never seen
I don't know about his creeping up and down the back stairs
further than knowing that he does no such thing; and as to his never being seen, I should be content never to have seen him, though he is quite as visible as you are. But I pleased HIM (for my sins) and he had the presumption to tell me so
The man never made a declaration to you, my dear Bella
Are you sure of that, Sophronia
I am not. In fact, I am sure of the contrary
The man must be mad
He appeared to be in his senses
and he had plenty to say for himself. I told him my opinion of his declaration and his conduct, and dismissed him. Of course this has all been very inconvenient to me, and very disagreeable. It has remained a secret, however. That word reminds me to observe, Sophronia, that I have glided on into telling you the secret, and that I rely upon you never to mention it
Mention it
Men- tion it
Upon your own showing, you vain heartless girl, puffed up by the doting folly of a dustman, I need have no relenting towards YOU. If my husband, who sends me here, should form any schemes for making YOU a victim, I should certainly not cross him again
Why am I always at war with myself? Why have I told, as if upon compulsion, what I knew all along I ought to have withheld? Why am I making a friend of this woman beside me, in spite of the whispers against her that I hear in my heart
Won't THAT extract a look from him
Can he be so base as to sell his very nature for two hundred a year
But why not? It's a mere question of price with others besides him. I suppose I would sell mine, if I could get enough for it
Rokesmith
I am spending too much money. Or leastways, you are spending too much for me
You are rich, sir
I am not
I tell you I am not rich
and I won't have it
You are not rich, sir
Well
if I am, that's my business. I am not going to spend at this rate, to please you, or anybody. You wouldn't like it, if it was your money
Even in that impossible case, sir, I
Hold your tongue
You oughtn't to like it in any case. There! I didn't mean to he rude, but you put me out so, and after all I'm master. I didn't intend to tell you to hold your tongue. I beg your pardon. Don't hold your tongue. Only, don't contradict. Did you ever come across the life of Mr Elwes
The miser
Ah, people called him a miser. People are always calling other people something. Did you ever read about him
I think so
He never owned to being rich, and yet he might have bought me twice over. Did you ever hear of Daniel Dancer
Another miser? Yes
un
and he had a sister worthy of him. They never called themselves rich neither. If they HAD called themselves rich, most likely they wouldn't have been so
They lived and died very miserably. Did they not, sir
No, I don't know that they did
Then they are not the Misers I mean. Those abject wretches
Don't call names, Rokesmith
That exemplary brother and sister -- lived and died in the foulest and filthiest degradation
They pleased themselves
and I suppose they could have done no more if they had spent their money. But however, I ain't going to fling mine away. Keep the expenses down. The fact is, you ain't enough here, Rokesmith. It wants constant attention in the littlest things. Some of us will be dying in a workhouse next
As the persons you have cited
thought they would, if I remember, sir
And very creditable in 'em too
Very independent in 'em! But never mind them just now. Have you given notice to quit your lodgings
Under your direction, I have, sir
Then I tell you what
pay the quarter's rent -- pay the quarter's rent, it'll be the cheapest thing in the end -- and come here at once, so that you may be always on the spot, day and night, and keep the expenses down. You'll charge the quarter's rent to me, and we must try and save it somewhere. You've got some lovely furniture; haven't you
The furniture in my rooms is my own
Then we shan't have to buy any for you. In case you was to think it
so honourably independent in you as to make it a relief to your mind, to make that furniture over to me in the light of a set-off against the quarter's rent, why ease your mind, ease your mind. I don't ask it, but I won't stand in your way if you should consider it due to yourself. As to your room, choose any empty room at the top of the house
Any empty room will do for me
You can take your pick
and it'll be as good as eight or ten shillings a week added to your income. I won't deduct for it; I look to you to make it up handsomely by keeping the expenses down. Now, if you'll show a light, I'll come to your office-room and dispose of a letter or two
Oh, my loved husband
This is hard to see and hear. But my dear Bella, believe me that in spite of all the change in him, he is the best of men
Eh
What's she telling you
She is only praising you, sir
Praising me? You are sure? Not blaming me for standing on my own defence against a crew of plunderers, who could suck me dry by driblets? Not blaming me for getting a little hoard together
There, there, there
Don't take on, old lady
But I can't bear to see you so, my dear
Nonsense! Recollect we are not our old selves. Recollect, we must scrunch or be scrunched. Recollect, we must hold our own. Recollect, money makes money. Don't you be uneasy, Bella, my child; don't you be doubtful. The more I save, the more you shall have
Brother in arms
welcome
Walk in, brother
And you come, brother
you come like I don't know what -- exactly like it -- I shouldn't know you from it -- shedding a halo all around you
What kind of halo
Ope sir
That's YOUR halo
We'll devote the evening, brother
Why, as to the friendly move
one of my objections to it is, that it DON'T move
Rome, brother
a city which (it may not be generally known) originated in twins and a wolf; and ended in Imperial marble: wasn't built in a day
Did I say it was
No, you did not, brother. Well-inquired
But I do say
that I am taken from among my trophies of anatomy, am called upon to exchange my human warious for mere coal-ashes warious, and nothing comes of it. I think I must give up
No, sir
It's not so much saying it that I object to
as doing it. And having got to do it whether or no, I can't afford to waste my time on groping for nothing in cinders
But think how little time you have given to the move, sir, after all
Add the evenings so occupied together, and what do they come to? And you, sir, harmonizer with myself in opinions, views, and feelings, you with the patience to fit together on wires the whole framework of society -- I allude to the human skelinton -- you to give in so soon
I don't like it
And there's no encouragement to go on
Not them Mounds without
encouragement? Not them Mounds now looking down upon us
They're too big
What's a scratch here and a scrape there, a poke in this place and a dig in the other, to them. Besides; what have we found
What HAVE we found
Ah! There I grant you, comrade. Nothing. But on the contrary, comrade, what MAY we find? There you'll grant me. Anything
I don't like it
I came into it without enough consideration. And besides again. Isn't your own Mr Boffin well acquainted with the Mounds? And wasn't he well acquainted with the deceased and his ways? And has he ever showed any expectation of finding anything
Now, I should be loth
to think so ill of him as to suppose him capable of coming at this time of night. And yet it sounds like him
It is him
and he it capable of it. I am sorry, because I could have wished to keep up a little lingering fragment of respect for him
Halloa! Wegg! Halloa
Keep your seat, Mr Venus
He may not stop
Halloa, sir! Halloa! I'm with you directly, sir! Half a minute, Mr Boffin. Coming, sir, as fast as my leg will bring me
Here! lend a hand, Wegg
I can't get out till the way is cleared for me. This is the Annual Register, Wegg, in a cab-full of wollumes. Do you know him
Know the Animal Register, sir
For a trifling wager, I think I could find any Animal in him, blindfold, Mr Boffin
And here's Kirby's Wonderful Museum
and Caulfield's Characters, and Wilson's. Such Characters, Wegg, such Characters! I must have one or two of the best of 'em to- night. It's amazing what places they used to put the guineas in, wrapped up in rags. Catch hold of that pile of wollumes, Wegg, or it'll bulge out and burst into the mud. Is there anyone about, to help
There's a friend of mine, sir, that had the intention of spending the evening with me when I gave you up -- much against my will -- for the night
Call him out
get him to bear a hand. Don't drop that one under your arm. It's Dancer. Him and his sister made pies of a dead sheep they found when they were out a walking. Where's your friend? Oh, here's your friend. Would you be so good as help Wegg and myself with these books? But don't take Jemmy Taylor of Southwark, nor yet Jemmy Wood of Gloucester. These are the two Jemmys. I'll carry them myself
There
There they are, like the four-and-twenty fiddlers -- all of a row. Get on your spectacles, Wegg; I know where to find the best of 'em, and we'll have a taste at once of what we have got before us. What's your friend's name
Eh
Of Clerkenwell
Of Clerkenwell, sir
Why, I've heard of you
I heard of you in the old man's time. You knew him. Did you ever buy anything of him
No, sir
But he showed you things; didn't he
What did he show you
Did he show you boxes, little cabinets, pocket-books, parcels, anything locked or sealed, anything tied up
Are you a judge of china
Because if he had ever showed you a teapot, I should be glad to know of it
A Teapot
a Teapot, a Teapot. Are you ready, Wegg
I am at your service, sir
Mr Venus, would you make yourself useful, and take a seat beside me, sir, for the conveniency of snuffing the candles
Hem! Ahem
Would you wish to commence with an Animal, sir -- from the Register
No
no, Wegg
What do you call that, Wegg
This, sir
is Merryweather's Lives and Anecdotes of Misers. Mr Venus, would you make yourself useful and draw the candles a little nearer, sir
Which of 'em have you got in that lot
Can you find out pretty easy
Well, sir
Give us Dancer, Wegg
Page a hundred and nine, Mr Boffin. Chapter eight. Contents of chapter, "His birth and estate. His garments and outward appearance. Miss Dancer and her feminine graces. The Miser's Mansion. The finding of a treasure. The Story of the Mutton Pies. A Miser's Idea of Death. Bob, the Miser's cur. Griffiths and his Master. How to turn a penny. A substitute for a Fire. The Advantages of keeping a Snuff-box. The Miser dies without a Shirt. The Treasures of a Dunghill
Eh? What's that
The Treasures," sir
of a Dunghill." Mr Venus, sir, would you obleege with the snuffers
Mounds
Give us Dancer
The house, or rather the heap of ruins, in which Mr Dancer lived, and which at his death devolved to the right of Captain Holmes, was a most miserable, decayed building, for it had not been repaired for more than half a century
But though poor in external structure, the ruinous fabric was very rich in the interior. It took many weeks to explore its whole contents; and Captain Holmes found it a very agreeable task to dive into the miser's secret hoards
One of Mr Dancer's richest escretoires was found to be a dungheap in the cowhouse; a sum but little short of two thousand five hundred pounds was contained in this rich piece of manure; and in an old jacket, carefully tied, and strongly nailed down to the manger, in bank notes and gold were found five hundred pounds more
Some were reposing snugly at the back of the drawers; and notes amounting to six hundred pounds were found neatly doubled up in the inside of an old teapot. In the stable the Captain found jugs full of old dollars and shillings. The chimney was not left unsearched, and paid very well for the trouble; for in nineteen different holes, all filled with soot, were found various sums of money, amounting together to more than two hundred pounds
Tish-ho
Let's have some more
John Elwes is the next, sir. Is it your pleasure to take John Elwes
Ah
Let's hear what John did
here and there, in cracks and corners, behind bricks and under the flooring
a leather valise, containing twenty thousand francs, gold coins, and a large quantity of precious stones
Many years ago, there lived at Cambridge a miserly old couple of the name of Jardine: they had two sons: the father was a perfect miser, and at his death one thousand guineas were discovered secreted in his bed. The two sons grew up as parsimonious as their sire. When about twenty years of age, they commenced business at Cambridge as drapers, and they continued there until their death. The establishment of the Messrs Jardine was the most dirty of all the shops in Cambridge. Customers seldom went in to purchase, except perhaps out of curiosity. The brothers were most disreputable-looking beings; for, although surrounded with gay apparel as their staple in trade, they wore the most filthy rags themselves. It is said that they had no bed, and, to save the expense of one, always slept on a bundle of packing-cloths under the counter. In their housekeeping they were penurious in the extreme. A joint of meat did not grace their board for twenty years. Yet when the first of the brothers died, the other, much to his surprise, found large sums of money which had been secreted even from him
There
Even from him, you see! There was only two of 'em, and yet one of 'em hid from the other
Do you like it
I beg your pardon, sir
Do you like what Wegg's been a-reading
Then come again
and hear some more. Come when you like; come the day after to-morrow, half an hour sooner. There's plenty more; there's no end to it
It's wonderful what's been hid, at one time and another
truly wonderful
Meaning sir
in the way of money
Money
Ah! And papers
Tish-ho! Did you say papers too, sir? Been hidden, sir
Hidden and forgot
Why the bookseller that sold me the Wonderful Museum -- where's the Wonderful Museum
Can I assist you, sir
No, I have got it; here it is
Wollume four. I know it was the fourth wollume, that the bookseller read it to me out of. Look for it, Wegg
Remarkable petrefaction, sir
No, that's not it
It can't have been a petrefaction
Memoirs of General John Reid, commonly called The Walking Rushlight, sir? With portrait
No, nor yet him
Remarkable case of a person who swallowed a crown-piece, sir
To hide it
Why, no, sir
it appears to have been done by accident. Oh! This next must be it. "Singular discovery of a will, lost twenty-one years
That's it
Read that
A most extraordinary case
was tried at the last Maryborough assizes in Ireland. It was briefly this. Robert Baldwin, in March 1782, made his will, in which he devised the lands now in question, to the children of his youngest son; soon after which his faculties failed him, and he became altogether childish and died, above eighty years old. The defendant, the eldest son, immediately afterwards gave out that his father had destroyed the will; and no will being found, he entered into possession of the lands in question, and so matters remained for twenty-one years, the whole family during all that time believing that the father had died without a will. But after twenty- one years the defendant's wife died, and he very soon afterwards, at the age of seventy-eight, married a very young woman: which caused some anxiety to his two sons, whose poignant expressions of this feeling so exasperated their father, that he in his resentment executed a will to disinherit his eldest son, and in his fit of anger showed it to his second son, who instantly determined to get at it, and destroy it, in order to preserve the property to his brother. With this view, he broke open his father's desk, where he found -- not his father's will which he sought after, but the will of his grandfather, which was then altogether forgotten in the family
There
See what men put away and forget, or mean to destroy, and don't
As -- ton -- ish -- ing
However, time's up for to-night
More, the day after to-morrow. Range the books upon the shelves, Wegg. I dare say Mr Venus will be so kind as help you
I'm going, Wegg
to take a turn about the place and round the yard. I don't want you. Me and this same lantern have taken hundreds -- thousands -- of such turns in our time together
But I couldn't think, sir -- not on any account, I couldn't
I have told you that I don't want you, Wegg
Mr Venus, he must be followed, he must be watched, he mustn't be lost sight of for a moment
Why mustn't he
Comrade, you might have noticed I was a little elewated in spirits when you come in to-night. I've found something
What have you found
There's no time to tell you now. I think he must have gone to look for it. We must have an eye upon him instantly
If not a double swindler
why a dark lantern? We could have seen what he was about, if he had carried a light one. Softly, this way
He knows the place by heart
and don't need to turn his lantern on, confound him
Is that the spot
He's warm
He's precious warm. He's close. I think he must be going to look for it. What's that he's got in his hand
A shovel
And he knows how to use it, remember, fifty times as well as either of us
If he looks for it and misses it, partner
what shall we do
First of all, wait till he does
That can't be the spot too
No
he's getting cold
It strikes me
that he wants to find out whether any one has been groping about there
Hush
he's getting colder and colder.-- Now he's freezing
Why, he's going up it
Shovel and all
This is his own Mound
Why all three are his own
So he thinks; but he's used to call this his own, because it's the one first left to him; the one that was his legacy when it was all he took under the will
When he shows his light
drop lower and keep closer
He can never be going to dig up the pole
Perhaps it's holler and full of something
What's the matter, Wegg
You are as pale as a candle
Bile
Are you subject to bile, Wegg
Physic yourself to-morrow, Wegg
to be in order for next night. By-the-by, this neighbourhood is going to have a loss, Wegg
A loss, sir
Going to lose the Mounds
Have you parted with them, Mr Boffin
Yes; they're going. Mine's as good as gone already
You mean the little one of the three, with the pole atop, sir
Yes
It has fetched a penny. It'll begin to be carted off to-morrow
Have you been out to take leave of your old friend, sir
No
What the devil put that in your head
No offence, sir
No offence
Good-night
No! stop there. I know the way out, and I want no light
He mustn't go
We mustn't let him go? He has got that bottle about him. We must have that bottle
Why, you wouldn't take it by force
Wouldn't I? Yes I would. I'd take it by any force, I'd have it at any price! Are you so afraid of one old man as to let him go, you coward
I am so afraid of you, as not to let YOU go
Did you hear him
Did you hear him say that he was resolved to disappoint us? Did you hear him say, you cur, that he was going to have the Mounds cleared off, when no doubt the whole place will be rummaged? If you haven't the spirit of a mouse to defend your rights, I have. Let me go after him
Brother
you were right, and I was wrong. I forgot myself
But comrade
it was never your lot to know Miss Elizabeth, Master George, Aunt Jane, nor Uncle Parker
Don't say that, comrade
No, don't say that! Because, without having known them, you never can fully know what it is to be stimilated to frenzy by the sight of the Usurper
Comrade
take a seat. Comrade, what a speaking countenance is yours
For clearly do I know, mark you
clearly do I know what question your expressive features puts to me
What question
The question
why I didn't mention sooner, that I had found something. Says your speaking countenance to me: "Why didn't you communicate that, when I first come in this evening? Why did you keep it back till you thought Mr Boffin had come to look for the article?" Your speaking countenance
puts it plainer than language. Now, you can't read in my face what answer I give
No, I can't
I knew it! And why not
Because I lay no claims to a speaking countenance. Because I am well aware of my deficiencies. All men are not gifted alike. But I can answer in words. And in what words? These. I wanted to give you a delightful sap -- pur -- IZE
being answered to its satisfaction, only asks then, "What have you found?" Why, I hear it say the words
Well
If you hear it say the words, why don't you answer it
Hear me out
I'm a-going to. Hear me out! Man and brother, partner in feelings equally with undertakings and actions, I have found a cash-box
Where
Hear me out
On a certain day, sir
When
N -- no
It is necessary. What object
Hear me out
The Pump.-- When I struck it against the Pump, and found, not only that the top was loose and opened with a lid, but that something in it rattled. That something, comrade, I discovered to be a small flat oblong cash-box. Shall I say it was disappintingly light
There were papers in it
There your expressive countenance speaks indeed
A paper. The box was locked, tied up, and sealed, and on the outside was a parchment label, with the writing, "MY WILL, JOHN HARMON, TEMPORARILY DEPOSITED HERE
We must know its contents
Hear me out
Without coming to me
Exactly so, sir
I see I take you with me! Hear, hear, hear! Resolved, as your discriminating good sense perceives, that if you was to have a sap- -pur -- IZE, it should be a complete one! Well, sir. And so, as you have honoured me by anticipating, I examined the document. Regularly executed, regularly witnessed, very short. Inasmuch as he has never made friends, and has ever had a rebellious family, he, John Harmon, gives to Nicodemus Boffin the Little Mound, which is quite enough for him, and gives the whole rest and residue of his property to the Crown
The date of the will that has been proved, must be looked to
It may be later than this one
Hear me out
I said so. I paid a shilling (never mind your sixpence of it) to look up that will. Brother, that will is dated months before this will. And now, as a fellow-man, and as a partner in a friendly move
say have I completed my labour of love to your perfect satisfaction, and are you sap -- pur -- IZED
This is great news indeed, Mr Wegg. There's no denying it. But I could have wished you had told it me before you got your fright to- night, and I could have wished you had ever asked me as your partner what we were to do, before you thought you were dividing a responsibility
Hear me out
I knew you was a-going to say so. But alone I bore the anxiety, and alone I'll bear the blame
No
Let's see this will and this box
Do I understand, brother
that it is your wish to see this will and this
Hear me out
Hear me out! I'll go and fetch 'em
But I don't half like opening it here
he might come back, he may not be gone; we don't know what he may be up to, after what we've seen
There's something in that
Come to my place
Come, I tell you
to my place
Hear me out!-- Certainly
No one can get in without being let in
and we couldn't be more snug than here
Now, sir
all is safe and quiet. Let us see this discovery
Was I correct in my account of it, partner
Partner, you were
No, sir
No, partner. The question is now brought up, who is going to take care of this. Do you know who is going to take care of this, partner
I am
Oh dear no, partner
That's a mistake. I am. Now look here, Mr Wegg. I don't want to have any words with you, and still less do I want to have any anatomical pursuits with you
What do you mean
I mean, partner
that it's hardly possible for a man to feel in a more amiable state towards another man than I do towards you at this present moment. But I am on my own ground, I am surrounded by the trophies of my art, and my tools is very handy
What do you mean, Mr Venus
I am surrounded, as I have observed
by the trophies of my art. They are numerous, my stock of human warious is large, the shop is pretty well crammed, and I don't just now want any more trophies of my art. But I like my art, and I know how to exercise my art
No man better
There's the Miscellanies of several human specimens
It still wants a pair of arms. I DON'T say that I'm in any hurry for 'em
You must be wandering in your mind, partner
You'll excuse me if I wander
I am sometimes rather subject to it. I like my art, and I know how to exercise my art, and I mean to have the keeping of this document
But what has that got to do with your art, partner
She'll bile in a couple of minutes
Partner
I propose that we cut it in half, and each keep a half
It wouldn't do to mutilate it, partner. It might seem to be cancelled
Partner
don't your speaking countenance say that you're a-going to suggest a middle course
Partner, you have kept this paper from me once. You shall never keep it from me again. I offer you the box and the label to take care of, but I'll take care of the paper
What's life without trustfulness! What's a fellow-man without honour! You're welcome to it, partner, in a spirit of trust and confidence
A cup of tea, partner
Thank'ee, partner
Next
comes the question, What's the course to be pursued
Halves
Halves
Halves
Brother
I should like to ask you something. You remember the night when I first looked in here, and found you floating your powerful mind in tea
And there you sit, sir
added Mr Wegg in prose as he glanced about the shop, 'ever so ghastly, all things considered there's no place like it
You said you'd like to ask something; but you haven't asked it
Your peace of mind
your peace of mind was in a poor way that night. HOW'S it going on? IS it looking up at all
She does not wish
to regard herself, nor yet to be regarded, in that particular light. There's no more to be said
Ah, dear me, dear me
such is Woman! And I remember you said that night, sitting there as I sat here -- said that night when your peace of mind was first laid low, that you had taken an interest in these very affairs. Such is coincidence
Her father
her father was mixed up in them
You didn't mention her name, sir, I think
No, you didn't mention her name that night
Pleasant Riderhood
In -- deed
Pleasant Riderhood. There's something moving in the name. Pleasant. Dear me! Seems to express what she might have been, if she hadn't made that unpleasant remark -- and what she ain't, in consequence of having made it. Would it at all pour balm into your wounds, Mr Venus, to inquire how you came acquainted with her
I was down at the water-side
looking for
You could hardly have been out parrot-shooting, in the British climate, sir
No, no, no
I was down at the water-side, looking for parrots brought home by sailors, to buy for stuffing
Ay, ay, ay, sir
And looking for a nice pair of rattlesnakes, to articulate for a Museum -- when I was doomed to fall in with her and deal with her. It was just at the time of that discovery in the river. Her father had seen the discovery being towed in the river. I made the popularity of the subject a reason for going back to improve the acquaintance, and I have never since been the man I was. My very bones is rendered flabby by brooding over it. If they could be brought to me loose, to sort, I should hardly have the face to claim 'em as mine. To such an extent have I fallen off under it
Why I remember, Mr Venus
for I remember every word that falls from you, sir), I remember that you said that night, you had got up there -- and then your words was, "Never mind
The parrot that I bought of her
Yes; there it lies on its side, dried up; except for its plumage, very like myself. I've never had the heart to prepare it, and I never shall have now
There'll shortly be an end of YOU
YOUR varnish is fading
Look out for a fall, my Lady Dustwoman
How brisk we are
You won't run so gaily to your old shabby home, my girl. You'll have to go there, though
I was passed over for you
But you had better provide yourself with another situation, young man
Yoop
You're there, are you? Where's the bottle? You would give your bottle for my box, Dustman
Though that wouldn't quite do
That's what would happen to him if he didn't buy us up. We should get nothing by that
He's grown too fond of money for that
he's grown too fond of money
He's GROWN too FOND of MONEY for THAT, he's GROWN too FOND of MONEY
Come to me, come to me! When the cruel shame and terror you have so long fled from, most beset you, come to me! I am the Relieving Officer appointed by eternal ordinance to do my work; I am not held in estimation according as I shirk it. My breast is softer than the pauper-nurse's; death in my arms is peacefuller than among the pauper-wards. Come to me
Ah me! The dead and I seem to have it pretty much to ourselves in the dark and in this weather! But so much the better for all who are warmly housed at home
Are you better now, mother
Do you think you can do nicely now
Have I been ill then
You have had a faint like
or a fit. It ain't that you've been a-struggling, mother, but you've been stiff and numbed
Ah
It's the numbness. Yes. It comes over me at times
It's gone now
I shall be stronger than I was afore. Many thanks to ye, my dears, and when you come to be as old as I am, may others do as much for you
My head's a bit light, and my feet are a bit heavy
They'll both come nat'ral in a minute. There's nothing more the matter
Ask her
who belongs to her
Are there any folks belonging to you, mother
Yes sure
I heerd the gentleman say it, but I couldn't answer quick enough. There's plenty belonging to me. Don't ye fear for me, my dear
Quite near enough
Don't ye be afeard for me, neighbours
But you are not fit to travel. Where are you going
I'm a going to London when I've sold out all
I've right good friends in London. I want for nothing. I shall come to no harm. Thankye. Don't ye be afeard for me
For the Lord's love don't meddle with me
I am quite well now, and I must go this minute
Now, Missis
where did you come from and where are you going to
I am the Lock
The Lock
I am the Deputy Lock, on job, and this is the Lock-house. (Lock or Deputy Lock, it's all one, while the t'other man's in the hospital.) What's your Parish
Parish
You'll be asked the question down town
ceptin as a Casual
'Twas the deadness again
It was the deadness, there's not a doubt about it
I should have thought the deadness was a mild word for it, if it had been named to me when we brought you in. Have you got any friends, Missis
The best of friends, Master
I should recommend your looking 'em up if you consider 'em game to do anything for you
Have you got any money
Just a morsel of money, sir
Do you want to keep it
Sure I do
Well, you know
the parish authorities down town will have it out of you, if you go on, you may take your Alfred David
Then I'll not go on
They'll make you pay, as fur as your money will go
for your relief as a Casual and for your being passed to your Parish
Thank ye kindly, Master, for your warning, thank ye for your shelter, and good night
Stop a bit
Why are you all of a shake, and what's your hurry, Missis
Oh, Master, Master
I don't know
as I ought to let you go. I'm a honest man as gets my living by the sweat of my brow, and I may fall into trouble by letting you go. I've fell into trouble afore now, by George, and I know what it is, and it's made me careful. You might be took with your deadness again, half a mile off -- or half of half a quarter, for the matter of that -- and then it would be asked, Why did that there honest Deputy Lock, let her go, instead of putting her safe with the Parish? That's what a man of his character ought to have done, it would be argueyfied
he ought to have handed her over safe to the Parish. That was to be expected of a man of his merits
As I've told you, Master, I've the best of friends. This letter will show how true I spoke, and they will be thankful for me
What amount of small change, Missis
might you call a morsel of money
If I was to let you go instead of handing you over safe to the Parish
might it be your own free wish to leave that there behind you
Take it, Master, take it, and welcome and thankful
I'm a man
as earns his living by the sweat of his brow;' here he drew his sleeve across his forehead, as if this particular portion of his humble gains were the result of sheer hard labour and virtuous industry; 'and I won't stand in your way. Go where you like
She prized it, did old Betty Higden; she was true to it; and while she lived, she would never let it be disgraced by falling into the hands of those that she held in horror
The Lord will see me through it
There she goes! Stop! Stop, Betty Higden
Water-meadows, or such like
I humbly thank the Power and the Glory
that I have come to my journey's end
I am safe here
When I am found dead at the foot of the Cross, it will be by some of my own sort; some of the working people who work among the lights yonder. I cannot see the lighted windows now, but they are there. I am thankful for all
It cannot be the boofer lady
I don't understand what you say. Let me wet your lips again with this brandy. I have been away to fetch it. Did you think that I was long gone
Have I been long dead
I don't understand what you say. Let me wet your lips again. I hurried all I could, and brought no one back with me, lest you should die of the shock of strangers
Am I not dead
I cannot understand what you say. Your voice is so low and broken that I cannot hear you. Do you hear me
Yes
Do you mean Yes
Yes
I was coming from my work just now, along the path outside (I was up with the night-hands last night), and I heard a groan, and found you lying here
What work, deary
Did you ask what work? At the paper-mill
Where is it
Your face is turned up to the sky, and you can't see it. It is close by. You can see my face, here, between you and the sky
Yes
Dare I lift you
Not yet
Not even lift your head to get it on my arm? I will do it by very gentle degrees. You shall hardly feel it
Not yet. Paper. Letter
This paper in your breast
Bless ye
Let me wet your lips again. Am I to open it? To read it
Bless ye
I know these names. I have heard them often
Will you send it, my dear
I cannot understand you. Let me wet your lips again, and your forehead. There. O poor thing, poor thing
What was it that you asked me? Wait till I bring my ear quite close
Will you send it, my dear
Will I send it to the writers? Is that your wish? Yes, certainly
You'll not give it up to any one but them
No
As you must grow old in time, and come to your dying hour, my dear, you'll not give it up to any one but them
No. Most solemnly
Never to the Parish
No. Most solemnly
Nor let the Parish touch me, not yet so much as look at me
No. Faithfully
What is your name, my dear
My name is Lizzie Hexam
I must be sore disfigured. Are you afraid to kiss me
Bless ye! NOW lift me, my love
We give thee hearty thanks for that it hath pleased thee to deliver this our sister out of the miseries of this sinful world
I've took it in my head
SHE warn't, sir
Let us speak for ourselves, sir. She went through with whatever duty she had to do. She went through with me, she went through with the Minders, she went through with herself, she went through with everythink. O Mrs Higden, Mrs Higden, you was a woman and a mother and a mangler in a million million
Not a very poor grave
when it has that homely figure on it. Richer, I think, than it could be made by most of the sculpture in Westminster Abbey
I could not have done it all, or nearly all, of myself
I should not have wanted the will; but I should not have had the power, without our managing partner
Surely not the Jew who received us
My dear
why not
The gentleman certainly is a Jew
and the lady, his wife, is a Jewess, and I was first brought to their notice by a Jew. But I think there cannot be kinder people in the world
But suppose they try to convert you
To do what, ma'am
To make you change your religion
It is easy to see you're a favourite, my dear
It would be very ungrateful in me to say I am not
for I have been already raised to a place of confidence here. But that makes no difference in their following their own religion and leaving all of us to ours. They never talk of theirs to us, and they never talk of ours to us. If I was the last in the mill, it would be just the same. They never asked me what religion that poor thing had followed
My dear
I wish you would talk to her
My dear
I think I will leave it to somebody else. The circumstances are hardly favourable. There are plenty of talkers going about, my love, and she will soon find one
Hadn't we better talk about the commission we have undertaken, Mr Rokesmith
By all means
I suppose
that we ARE both commissioned, or we shouldn't both be here
I suppose so
When I proposed to come with Mr and Mrs Milvey
Mrs Boffin urged me to do so, in order that I might give her my small report -- it's not worth anything, Mr Rokesmith, except for it's being a woman's -- which indeed with you may be a fresh reason for it's being worth nothing -- of Lizzie Hexam
Mr Boffin
directed me to come for the same purpose
You think well of her, Mr Rokesmith
I think highly of her
I am so glad of that! Something quite refined in her beauty, is there not
Her appearance is very striking
There is a shade of sadness upon her that is quite touching. At least I -- I am not setting up my own poor opinion, you know, Mr Rokesmith
I am consulting you
I noticed that sadness. I hope it may not
be the result of the false accusation which has been retracted
Oh, Mr Rokesmith, don't be hard with me, don't be stern with me; be magnanimous! I want to talk with you on equal terms
Upon my honour I had no thought but for you. I forced myself to be constrained, lest you might misinterpret my being more natural. There. It's gone
Thank you
Forgive me
No
Forgive ME
You were going to speak to me
about Lizzie Hexam. So was I going to speak to you, if I could have begun
Now that you CAN begin, sir
what were you going to say
You remember, of course, that in her short letter to Mrs Boffin -- short, but containing everything to the purpose -- she stipulated that either her name, or else her place of residence, must be kept strictly a secret among us
It is my duty to find out why she made that stipulation. I have it in charge from Mr Boffin to discover, and I am very desirous for myself to discover, whether that retracted accusation still leaves any stain upon her. I mean whether it places her at any disadvantage towards any one, even towards herself
Yes
I understand. That seems wise, and considerate
You may not have noticed, Miss Wilfer, that she has the same kind of interest in you, that you have in her. Just as you are attracted by her beaut -- by her appearance and manner, she is attracted by yours
I certainly have NOT noticed it
and I should have given her credit for
And so
if you would speak with her alone before we go away from here, I feel quite sure that a natural and easy confidence would arise between you. Of course you would not be asked to betray it; and of course you would not, if you were. But if you do not object to put this question to her -- to ascertain for us her own feeling in this one matter -- you can do so at a far greater advantage than I or any else could. Mr Boffin is anxious on the subject. And I am
for a special reason, very anxious
I shall be happy, Mr Rokesmith
to be of the least use; for I feel, after the serious scene of to-day, that I am useless enough in this world
Don't say that
Oh, but I mean that
No one is useless in this world
who lightens the burden of it for any one else
But I assure you I DON'T, Mr Rokesmith
Not for your father
Dear, loving, self-forgetting, easily-satisfied Pa! Oh, yes! He thinks so
It is enough if he only thinks so
Excuse the interruption: I don't like to hear you depreciate yourself
But YOU once depreciated ME, sir
and I hope you may be satisfied with the consequences you brought upon your head
Mr Rokesmith, it seems so long since we spoke together naturally, that I am embarrassed in approaching another subject. Mr Boffin. You know I am very grateful to him; don't you? You know I feel a true respect for him, and am bound to him by the strong ties of his own generosity; now don't you
Unquestionably. And also that you are his favourite companion
That makes it
so very difficult to speak of him. But --. Does he treat you well
You see how he treats me
Yes, and I see it with pain
I see it with pain
and it often makes me miserable. Miserable, because I cannot bear to be supposed to approve of it, or have any indirect share in it. Miserable, because I cannot bear to be forced to admit to myself that Fortune is spoiling Mr Boffin
Miss Wilfer
if you could know with what delight I make the discovery that Fortune isn't spoiling YOU, you would know that it more than compensates me for any slight at any other hands
Oh, don't speak of ME
You don't know me as well as
As you know yourself
DO you know yourself
I know quite enough of myself
and I don't improve upon acquaintance. But Mr Boffin
That Mr Boffin's manner to me, or consideration for me, is not what it used to be
must be admitted. It is too plain to be denied
Are you disposed to deny it, Mr Rokesmith
Ought I not to be glad to do so, if I could: though it were only for my own sake
Truly
it must try you very much, and -- you must please promise me that you won't take ill what I am going to add, Mr Rokesmith
I promise it with all my heart
And it must sometimes, I should think
a little lower you in your own estimation
I have very strong reasons, Miss Wilfer, for bearing with the drawbacks of my position in the house we both inhabit. Believe that they are not all mercenary, although I have, through a series of strange fatalities, faded out of my place in life. If what you see with such a gracious and good sympathy is calculated to rouse my pride, there are other considerations (and those you do not see) urging me to quiet endurance. The latter are by far the stronger
I think I have noticed, Mr Rokesmith
that you repress yourself, and force yourself, to act a passive part
You are right. I repress myself and force myself to act a part. It is not in tameness of spirit that I submit. I have a settled purpose
And a good one, I hope
And a good one, I hope
Sometimes I have fancied, sir
that your great regard for Mrs Boffin is a very powerful motive with you
You are right again; it is. I would do anything for her, bear anything for her. There are no words to express how I esteem that good, good woman
As I do too! May I ask you one thing more, Mr Rokesmith
Anything more
Of course you see that she really suffers, when Mr Boffin shows how he is changing
I see it, every day, as you see it, and am grieved to give her pain
To give her pain
I am generally the unfortunate cause of it
Perhaps she says to you, as she often says to me, that he is the best of men, in spite of all
I often overhear her, in her honest and beautiful devotion to him, saying so to you
but I cannot assert that she ever says so to me
I am afraid it is a poor room for you
Not so poor as you think, my dear
if you knew all
It's quite new to me
to be visited by a lady so nearly of my own age, and so pretty, as you. It's a pleasure to me to look at you
I have nothing left to begin with
because I was going to say that it was a pleasure to me to look at you, Lizzie. But we can begin without a beginning, can't we
Now, dear
I am commissioned with something to say, and I dare say I shall say it wrong, but I won't if I can help it. It is in reference to your letter to Mr and Mrs Boffin, and this is what it is. Let me see. Oh yes! This is what it is
I feel, my dear
that the subject must be a painful one to you, but I am mixed up in it also; for -- I don't know whether you may know it or suspect it -- I am the willed-away girl who was to have been married to the unfortunate gentleman, if he had been pleased to approve of me. So I was dragged into the subject without my consent, and you were dragged into it without your consent, and there is very little to choose between us
I had no doubt
that you were the Miss Wilfer I have often heard named. Can you tell me who my unknown friend is
Unknown friend, my dear
Who caused the charge against poor father to be contradicted, and sent me the written paper
I should have been glad to thank him
He has done a great deal for me. I must hope that he will let me thank him some day. You asked me has it anything to do
It or the accusation itself
Yes. Has either anything to do with my wishing to live quite secret and retired here? No
Have you lived much alone
Yes. It's nothing new to me. I used to be always alone many hours together, in the day and in the night, when poor father was alive
You have a brother, I have been told
I have a brother, but he is not friendly with me. He is a very good boy though, and has raised himself by his industry. I don't complain of him
Lizzie, I wish you would tell me whether you have any friend of your own sex and age
I have lived that lonely kind of life, that I have never had one
Nor I neither
Not that my life has been lonely, for I could have sometimes wished it lonelier, instead of having Ma going on like the Tragic Muse with a face-ache in majestic corners, and Lavvy being spiteful -- though of course I am very fond of them both. I wish you could make a friend of me, Lizzie. Do you think you could? I have no more of what they call character, my dear, than a canary-bird, but I know I am trustworthy
Do you think you could, Lizzie
Tell me, my dear
what is the matter, and why you live like this
You must have many lovers
My dear, I haven't one
Not one
Well! Perhaps one
I am sure I don't know. I HAD one, but what he may think about it at the present time I can't say. Perhaps I have half a one (of course I don't count that Idiot, George Sampson). However, never mind me. I want to hear about you
There is a certain man
a passionate and angry man, who says he loves me, and who I must believe does love me. He is the friend of my brother. I shrank from him within myself when my brother first brought him to me; but the last time I saw him he terrified me more than I can say
Did you come here to escape from him, Lizzie
I came here immediately after he so alarmed me
Are you afraid of him here
I am not timid generally, but I am always afraid of him. I am afraid to see a newspaper, or to hear a word spoken of what is done in London, lest he should have done some violence
Then you are not afraid of him for yourself, dear
I should be even that, if I met him about here. I look round for him always, as I pass to and fro at night
Are you afraid of anything he may do to himself in London, my dear
No. He might be fierce enough even to do some violence to himself, but I don't think of that
Then it would almost seem, dear
as if there must be somebody else
Kill him! Is this man so jealous, then
Of a gentleman
I hardly know how to tell you -- of a gentleman far above me and my way of life, who broke father's death to me, and has shown an interest in me since
Does he love you
Does he admire you
Is it through his influence that you came here
O no! And of all the world I wouldn't have him know that I am here, or get the least clue where to find me
Lizzie, dear! Why
No. Don't say why. That was a foolish question of mine. I see, I see
You know all now
There is nothing left out. This is my reason for living secret here, with the aid of a good old man who is my true friend. For a short part of my life at home with father, I knew of things -- don't ask me what -- that I set my face against, and tried to better. I don't think I could have done more, then, without letting my hold on father go; but they sometimes lie heavy on my mind. By doing all for the best, I hope I may wear them out
And wear out too
this weakness, Lizzie, in favour of one who is not worthy of it
No. I don't want to wear that out
nor do I want to believe, nor do I believe, that he is not worthy of it. What should I gain by that, and how much should I lose
Don't think that I press you, Lizzie; but wouldn't you gain in peace, and hope, and even in freedom? Wouldn't it be better not to live a secret life in hiding, and not to be shut out from your natural and wholesome prospects? Forgive my asking you, would that be no gain
Does a woman's heart that -- that has that weakness in it which you have spoken of
seek to gain anything
There, you little mercenary wretch! Do you hear that? Ain't you ashamed of your self
But you said, Lizzie
that you would lose, besides. Would you mind telling me what you would lose, Lizzie
I should lose some of the best recollections, best encouragements, and best objects, that I carry through my daily life. I should lose my belief that if I had been his equal, and he had loved me, I should have tried with all my might to make him better and happier, as he would have made me. I should lose almost all the value that I put upon the little learning I have, which is all owing to him, and which I conquered the difficulties of, that he might not think it thrown away upon me. I should lose a kind of picture of him -- or of what he might have been, if I had been a lady, and he had loved me -- which is always with me, and which I somehow feel that I could not do a mean or a wrong thing before. I should leave off prizing the remembrance that he has done me nothing but good since I have known him, and that he has made a change within me, like -- like the change in the grain of these hands, which were coarse, and cracked, and hard, and brown when I rowed on the river with father, and are softened and made supple by this new work as you see them now
Understand me, my dear;' thus she went on. I have never dreamed of the possibility of his being anything to me on this earth but the kind picture that I know I could not make you understand, if the understanding was not in your own breast already. I have no more dreamed of the possibility of MY being his wife, than he ever has -- and words could not be stronger than that. And yet I love him. I love him so much, and so dearly, that when I sometimes think my life may be but a weary one, I am proud of it and glad of it. I am proud and glad to suffer something for him, even though it is of no service to him, and he will never know of it or care for it
It was late upon a wretched night
when his eyes first looked at me in my old river-side home, very different from this. His eyes may never look at me again. I would rather that they never did; I hope that they never may. But I would not have the light of them taken out of my life, for anything my life can give me. I have told you everything now, my dear. If it comes a little strange to me to have parted with it, I am not sorry. I had no thought of ever parting with a single word of it, a moment before you came in; but you came in, and my mind changed
I only wish
I was more deserving of it
More deserving of it
I don't mean in respect of keeping it
because any one should tear me to bits before getting at a syllable of it -- though there's no merit in that, for I am naturally as obstinate as a Pig. What I mean is, Lizzie, that I am a mere impertinent piece of conceit, and you shame me
My dear
Oh, it's all very well to call me your dear
and I am glad to be called so, though I have slight enough claim to be. But I AM such a nasty little thing
My dear
Such a shallow, cold, worldly, Limited little brute
Do you think
that I don't know better
DO you know better though
Do you really believe you know better? Oh, I should be so glad if you did know better, but I am so very much afraid that I must know best
I suppose so
I look in the glass often enough, and I chatter like a Magpie
I have seen your face, and heard your voice, at any rate
and they have tempted me to say to you -- with a certainty of not going wrong -- what I thought I should never say to any one. Does that look ill
No, I hope it doesn't
I used once to see pictures in the fire
to please my brother. Shall I tell you what I see down there where the fire is glowing
Shall I tell you
what I see down there
Limited little b
A heart well worth winning, and well won. A heart that, once won, goes through fire and water for the winner, and never changes, and is never daunted
Girl's heart
And the figure to which it belongs
No. Most clearly and distinctly yours
You look rather serious, Miss Wilfer
I feel rather serious
Can you believe, Mr Rokesmith
that I feel as if whole years had passed since I went into Lizzie Hexam's cottage
We have crowded a good deal into the day
and you were much affected in the churchyard. You are over-tired
No, I am not at all tired. I have not quite expressed what I mean. I don't mean that I feel as if a great space of time had gone by, but that I feel as if much had happened -- to myself, you know
For good, I hope
I hope so
You are cold; I felt you tremble. Pray let me put this wrapper of mine about you. May I fold it over this shoulder without injuring your dress? Now, it will be too heavy and too long. Let me carry this end over my arm, as you have no arm to give me
I have had a long and interesting talk with Lizzie, Mr Rokesmith, and she gave me her full confidence
She could not withhold it
I wonder how you come
to say to me just what she said about it
I infer that it must be because I feel just as she felt about it
And how was that, do you mean to say, sir
That if you were inclined to win her confidence -- anybody's confidence -- you were sure to do it
What beautiful stars and what a glorious night
Yes
And so, Miss Wren
I cannot persuade you to dress me a doll
No
if you want one, go and buy one at the shop
And my charming young goddaughter
down in Hertfordshire
Humbugshire you mean, I think
is to be put upon the cold footing of the general public, and is to derive no advantage from my private acquaintance with the Court Dressmaker
If it's any advantage to your charming godchild -- and oh, a precious godfather she has got
to be informed that the Court Dressmaker knows your tricks and your manners, you may tell her so by post, with my compliments
Ugh, you disgraceful boy
I wish they'd all drop down your throat and play at dice in your stomach! Boh, wicked child! Bee- baa, black sheep
Pay five shillings for you indeed
how many hours do you suppose it costs me to earn five shillings, you imfamous boy?-- Don't cry like that, or I'll throw a doll at you. Pay five shillings fine for you indeed. Fine in more ways than one, I think! I'd give the dustman five shillings, to carry you off in the dust cart
No, no
Please
He's enough to break his mother's heart, is this boy
I wish I had never brought him up. He'd be sharper than a serpent's tooth, if he wasn't as dull as ditch water. Look at him. There's a pretty object for a parent's eyes
A muddling and a swipey old child
fit for nothing but to be preserved in the liquor that destroys him, and put in a great glass bottle as a sight for other swipey children of his own pattern,-- if he has no consideration for his liver, has he none for his mother
Yes. Deration, oh don't
Oh don't and oh don't
It's oh do and oh do. And why do you
Won't do so any more. Won't indeed. Pray
There
I can't bear to look at you. Go up stairs and get me my bonnet and shawl. Make yourself useful in some way, bad boy, and let me have your room instead of your company, for one half minute
I'm going to the Italian Opera to try on
I must see your back before I go, Mr Wrayburn. Let me first tell you, once for all, that it's of no use your paying visits to me. You wouldn't get what you want, of me, no, not if you brought pincers with you to tear it out
Are you so obstinate on the subject of a doll's dress for my godchild
Ah
I am so obstinate. And of course it's on the subject of a doll's dress -- or ADdress -- whichever you like. Get along and give it up
Give 'em to me and get back into your corner, you naughty old thing
No, no, I won't have your help. Go into your corner, this minute
Now you prodigal old son
you sit there till I come back. You dare to move out of your corner for a single instant while I'm gone, and I'll know the reason why
It strikes me
that my friend is likely to be rather behind time if he has any appointment on hand
My dear Mortimer, you are the express picture of contented industry, reposing (on credit) after the virtuous labours of the day
My dear Eugene, you are the express picture of discontented idleness not reposing at all. Where have you been
I have been
about town. I have turned up at the present juncture, with the intention of consulting my highly intelligent and respected solicitor on the position of my affairs
Your highly intelligent and respect solicitor is of opinion that your affairs are in a bad way, Eugene
Though whether
that can be intelligently said, now, of the affairs of a client who has nothing to lose and who cannot possibly be made to pay, may be open to question
You have fallen into the hands of the Jews, Eugene
My dear boy
having previously fallen into the hands of some of the Christians, I can bear it with philosophy
I have had an interview to-day, Eugene, with a Jew, who seems determined to press us hard. Quite a Shylock, and quite a Patriarch. A picturesque grey-headed and grey-bearded old Jew, in a shovel-hat and gaberdine
Not
surely not my worthy friend Mr Aaron
He calls himself Mr Riah
By-the-by
it comes into my mind that -- no doubt with an instinctive desire to receive him into the bosom of our Church -- I gave him the name of Aaron
Eugene, Eugene
you are more ridiculous than usual. Say what you mean
Merely, my dear fellow, that I have the honour and pleasure of a speaking acquaintance with such a Patriarch as you describe, and that I address him as Mr Aaron, because it appears to me Hebraic, expressive, appropriate, and complimentary. Notwithstanding which strong reasons for its being his name, it may not be his name
I believe you are the absurdest man on the face of the earth
Not at all, I assure you. Did he mention that he knew me
He did not. He only said of you that he expected to be paid by you
Which looks
like NOT knowing me. I hope it may not be my worthy friend Mr Aaron, for, to tell you the truth, Mortimer, I doubt he may have a prepossession against me. I strongly suspect him of having had a hand in spiriting away Lizzie
Everything
seems, by a fatality, to bring us round to Lizzie. "About town" meant about Lizzie, just now, Eugene
My solicitor, do you know
is a man of infinite discernment
Did it not, Eugene
Yes it did, Mortimer
And yet, Eugene, you know you do not really care for her
I don't know that. I must ask you not to say that, as if we took it for granted
But if you do care for her, so much the more should you leave her to herself
I don't know that, either. But tell me. Did you ever see me take so much trouble about anything, as about this disappearance of hers? I ask, for information
My dear Eugene, I wish I ever had
Then you have not? Just so. You confirm my own impression. Does that look as if I cared for her? I ask, for information
I asked YOU for information, Eugene
Dear boy, I know it, but I can't give it. I thirst for information. What do I mean? If my taking so much trouble to recover her does not mean that I care for her, what does it mean? "If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper, where's the peck," &amp;c
Look on to the end
Ah! See now! That's exactly what I am incapable of doing. How very acute you are, Mortimer, in finding my weak place! When we were at school together, I got up my lessons at the last moment, day by day and bit by bit; now we are out in life together, I get up my lessons in the same way. In the present task I have not got beyond this:-- I am bent on finding Lizzie, and I mean to find her, and I will take any means of finding her that offer themselves. Fair means or foul means, are all alike to me. I ask you -- for information -- what does that mean? When I have found her I may ask you -- also for information -- what do I mean now? But it would be premature in this stage, and it's not the character of my mind
The frolicsome youth of the neighbourhood
whom I should be delighted to pitch from this elevation into the churchyard below, without any intermediate ceremonies, have probably turned the lamp out. I am on duty to-night, and will see to the door
This interesting gentleman
is the son -- the occasionally rather trying son, for he has his failings -- of a lady of my acquaintance. My dear Mortimer -- Mr Dolls
I gather, my dear Mortimer
from the manner of Mr Dolls -- which is occasionally complicated -- that he desires to make some communication to me. I have mentioned to Mr Dolls that you and I are on terms of confidence, and have requested Mr Dolls to develop his views here
It will be necessary, I think
to wind up Mr Dolls, before anything to any mortal purpose can be got out of him. Brandy, Mr Dolls, or
Threepenn'orth Rum
The nerves of Mr Dolls
are considerably unstrung. And I deem it on the whole expedient to fumigate Mr Dolls
Lord bless my soul, Eugene
what a mad fellow you are! Why does this creature come to see you
We shall hear
Now then. Speak out. Don't be afraid. State your business, Dolls
Mist Wrayburn
'TIS Mist Wrayburn, ain't
Of course it is. Look at me. What do you want
Threepenn'orth Rum
Will you do me the favour, my dear Mortimer, to wind up Mr Dolls again
I am occupied with the fumigation
I do
I am er man
er do it. I am er man er do it
What are you the man to do
Er give up that drection
Have you got it
No
What do you mean then
Threepenn'orth Rum
Wind him up again, my dear Mortimer
wind him up again
Eugene, Eugene
can you stoop to the use of such an instrument as this
I said
that I would find her out by any means, fair or foul. These are foul, and I'll take them -- if I am not first tempted to break the head of Mr Dolls with the fumigator. Can you get the direction? Do you mean that? Speak! If that's what you have come for, say how much you want
Ten shillings -- Threepenn'orths Rum
You shall have it
Fifteen shillings -- Threepenn'orths Rum
You shall have it. Stop at that. How will you get the direction you talk of
I am er man
er get it, sir
How will you get it, I ask you
I am ill-used vidual
Get on
What comes next
She looks upon me as mere child, sir. I am NOT mere child, sir. Man. Man talent. Lerrers pass betwixt 'em. Postman lerrers. Easy for man talent er get drection, as get his own drection
Get it then
You Brute! Get it, and bring it here to me, and earn the money for sixty threepenn'orths of rum, and drink them all, one a top of another, and drink yourself dead with all possible expedition
I'll wash my hands of Mr Dolls physically --' said Eugene, 'and be with you again directly, Mortimer
I would much prefer
your washing your hands of Mr Dolls, morally, Eugene
So would I
but you see, dear boy, I can't do without him
I can't be amused on this theme
You can make almost any theme amusing to me, Eugene, but not this
Well
I am a little ashamed of it myself, and therefore let us change the subject
It is so deplorably underhanded
It is so unworthy of you, this setting on of such a shameful scout
We have changed the subject
We have found a new one in that word, scout. Don't be like Patience on a mantelpiece frowning at Dolls, but sit down, and I'll tell you something that you really will find amusing. Take a cigar. Look at this of mine. I light it -- draw one puff -- breathe the smoke out -- there it goes -- it's Dolls!-- it's gone -- and being gone you are a man again
Your subject
was scouts, Eugene
Exactly. Isn't it droll that I never go out after dark, but I find myself attended, always by one scout, and often by two
On my honour, no
I don't wonder at your supposing so, but on my honour, no. I say what I mean. I never go out after dark, but I find myself in the ludicrous situation of being followed and observed at a distance, always by one scout, and often by two
Are you sure, Eugene
Sure? My dear boy, they are always the same
But there's no process out against you. The Jews only threaten. They have done nothing. Besides, they know where to find you, and I represent you. Why take the trouble
Observe the legal mind
Observe the dyer's hand, assimilating itself to what it works in,-- or would work in, if anybody would give it anything to do. Respected solicitor, it's not that. The schoolmaster's abroad
The schoolmaster
Ay! Sometimes the schoolmaster and the pupil are both abroad. Why, how soon you rust in my absence! You don't understand yet? Those fellows who were here one night. They are the scouts I speak of, as doing me the honour to attend me after dark
How long has this been going on
I apprehend it has been going on, ever since a certain person went off. Probably, it had been going on some little time before I noticed it: which would bring it to about that time
Do you think they suppose you to have inveigled her away
My dear Mortimer, you know the absorbing nature of my professional occupations; I really have not had leisure to think about it
Have you asked them what they want? Have you objected
Why should I ask them what they want, dear fellow, when I am indifferent what they want? Why should I express objection, when I don't object
You are in your most reckless mood. But you called the situation just now, a ludicrous one; and most men object to that, even those who are utterly indifferent to everything else
You charm me, Mortimer, with your reading of my weaknesses. (By-the-by, that very word, Reading, in its critical use, always charms me. An actress's Reading of a chambermaid, a dancer's Reading of a hornpipe, a singer's Reading of a song, a marine painter's Reading of the sea, the kettle-drum's Reading of an instrumental passage, are phrases ever youthful and delightful.) I was mentioning your perception of my weaknesses. I own to the weakness of objecting to occupy a ludicrous position, and therefore I transfer the position to the scouts
I wish, Eugene, you would speak a little more soberly and plainly, if it were only out of consideration for my feeling less at ease than you do
Then soberly and plainly, Mortimer, I goad the schoolmaster to madness. I make the schoolmaster so ridiculous, and so aware of being made ridiculous, that I see him chafe and fret at every pore when we cross one another. The amiable occupation has been the solace of my life, since I was baulked in the manner unnecessary to recall. I have derived inexpressible comfort from it. I do it thus: I stroll out after dark, stroll a little way, look in at a window and furtively look out for the schoolmaster. Sooner or later, I perceive the schoolmaster on the watch; sometimes accompanied by his hopeful pupil; oftener, pupil-less. Having made sure of his watching me, I tempt him on, all over London. One night I go east, another night north, in a few nights I go all round the compass. Sometimes, I walk; sometimes, I proceed in cabs, draining the pocket of the schoolmaster who then follows in cabs. I study and get up abstruse No Thoroughfares in the course of the day. With Venetian mystery I seek those No Thoroughfares at night, glide into them by means of dark courts, tempt the schoolmaster to follow, turn suddenly, and catch him before he can retreat. Then we face one another, and I pass him as unaware of his existence, and he undergoes grinding torments. Similarly, I walk at a great pace down a short street, rapidly turn the corner, and, getting out of his view, as rapidly turn back. I catch him coming on post, again pass him as unaware of his existence, and again he undergoes grinding torments. Night after night his disappointment is acute, but hope springs eternal in the scholastic breast, and he follows me again to-morrow. Thus I enjoy the pleasures of the chase, and derive great benefit from the healthful exercise. When I do not enjoy the pleasures of the chase, for anything I know he watches at the Temple Gate all night
This is an extraordinary story
I don't like it
You are a little hipped, dear fellow
you have been too sedentary. Come and enjoy the pleasures of the chase
Do you mean that you believe he is watching now
I have not the slightest doubt he is
Have you seen him to-night
I forgot to look for him when I was last out
but I dare say he was there. Come! Be a British sportsman and enjoy the pleasures of the chase. It will do you good
Bravo
Or, if Yoicks would be in better keeping, consider that I said Yoicks. Look to your feet, Mortimer, for we shall try your boots. When you are ready, I am -- need I say with a Hey Ho Chivey, and likewise with a Hark Forward, Hark Forward, Tantivy
Will nothing make you serious
I am always serious, but just now I am a little excited by the glorious fact that a southerly wind and a cloudy sky proclaim a hunting evening. Ready? So. We turn out the lamp and shut the door, and take the field
There is a rather difficult country about Bethnal Green
and we have not taken in that direction lately. What is your opinion of Bethnal Green
Now, when we come to St Paul's churchyard
we'll loiter artfully, and I'll show you the schoolmaster
Get your wind
for I am off directly. Does it occur to you that the boys of Merry England will begin to deteriorate in an educational light, if this lasts long? The schoolmaster can't attend to me and the boys too. Got your wind? I am off
And you see, as I was saying, Mortimer
and you see, as I was saying -- undergoing grinding torments
Nothing wrong, Mortimer
No
What fancy takes you, then, for walking about in the night
I am horribly wakeful
How comes that about, I wonder
Eugene, I cannot lose sight of that fellow's face
Odd
I can
Who for
Mr Wrayburn
It's very late
He came back with Mr Lightwood, I know, near upon two hours ago. But if he has gone to bed, I'll put a paper in his letter-box. I am expected
Not there
but she might have been
Oh
Here he is
This man is leaving a letter for Mr Lightwood
and I was mentioning that a person had just gone up to Mr Lightwood's chambers. It might be the same business perhaps
No
No
my letter -- it's wrote by my daughter, but it's mine -- is about my business, and my business ain't nobody else's business
Scuse me
but might you be acquainted with the T'other Governor
With whom
With
the T'other Governor
I don't know what you mean
Why look here
There's two Governors, ain't there? One and one, two -- Lawyer Lightwood, my first finger, he's one, ain't he? Well; might you be acquainted with my middle finger, the T'other
I know quite as much of him
as I want to know
Hooroar
Don't make such a noise at this dead hour of the night. What are you talking about
Look here, T'otherest Governor
The T'other Governor he's always joked his jokes agin me, owing, as I believe, to my being a honest man as gets my living by the sweat of my brow. Which he ain't, and he don't
What is that to me
T'otherest Governor
if you don't care to hear no more, don't hear no more. You begun it. You said, and likeways showed pretty plain, as you warn't by no means friendly to him. But I don't seek to force my company nor yet my opinions on no man. I am a honest man, that's what I am. Put me in the dock anywhere -- I don't care where -- and I says, "My Lord, I am a honest man." Put me in the witness- box anywhere -- I don't care where -- and I says the same to his lordship, and I kisses the book. I don't kiss my coat-cuff; I kisses the book
You needn't take offence. I didn't mean to stop you. You were too -- loud in the open street; that was all
Totherest Governor
I know wot it is to be loud, and I know wot it is to be soft. Nat'rally I do. It would be a wonder if I did not, being by the Chris'en name of Roger, which took it arter my own father, which took it from his own father, though which of our fam'ly fust took it nat'ral I will not in any ways mislead you by undertakin' to say. And wishing that your elth may be better than your looks, which your inside must be bad indeed if it's on the footing of your out
You call at the Temple late
Wish I may die
if I warn't a goin' to say the self-same words to you, T'otherest Governor
It chanced so with me
And it chanced so with me
But I don't mind telling you how. Why should I mind telling you? I'm a Deputy Lock-keeper up the river, and I was off dutyyes'd ay, and I shall be on to-morrow
Yes
Yes, and I come to London to look arter my private affairs. My private affairs is to get appinted to the Lock as reg'lar keeper at fust hand, and to have the law of a busted B'low-Bridge steamer which drownded of me. I ain't a goin' to be drownded and not paid for it
The steamer
run me down and drownded of me. Interference on the part of other parties brought me round; but I never asked 'em to bring me round, nor yet the steamer never asked 'em to it. I mean to be paid for the life as the steamer took
Was that your business at Mr Lightwood's chambers in the middle of the night
That and to get a writing to be fust-hand Lock Keeper. A recommendation in writing being looked for, who else ought to give it to me? As I says in the letter in my daughter's hand, with my mark put to it to make it good in law, Who but you, Lawyer Lightwood, ought to hand over this here stifficate, and who but you ought to go in for damages on my account agin the Steamer? For (as I says under my mark) I have had trouble enough along of you and your friend. If you, Lawyer Lightwood, had backed me good and true, and if the T'other Governor had took me down correct (I says under my mark), I should have been worth money at the present time, instead of having a barge-load of bad names chucked at me, and being forced to eat my words, which is a unsatisfying sort of food wotever a man's appetite! And when you mention the middle of the night, T'otherest Governor
throw your eye on this here bundle under my arm, and bear in mind that I'm a walking back to my Lock, and that the Temple laid upon my line of road
Do you know
that I believe I could tell you your name, if I tried
Prove your opinion
Try
Your name is Riderhood
I'm blest if it ain't
That's quite another thing
I never supposed you did
that Rogue Riderhood, by George! seemed to be made public property on, now, and that every man seemed to think himself free to handle his name as if it was a Street Pump
Here is an instrument. Can I use it
Where is your Lock
Twenty mile and odd -- call it five-and-twenty mile and odd, if you like -- up stream
How is it called
Plashwater Weir Mill Lock
Suppose I was to offer you five shillings; what then
Why, then, I'd take it
There's one thing about you, T'otherest Governor
as looks well and goes fur. You're a ready money man. Now
what's this for
For you
Why, o' course I know THAT
O' course I know very well as no man in his right senses would suppose as anythink would make me give it up agin when I'd once got it. But what do you want for it
I don't know that I want anything for it. Or if I do want anything for it, I don't know what it is
You have no goodwill towards this Wrayburn
No
Neither have I
Is it for that
It's as much for that as anything else. It's something to be agreed with, on a subject that occupies so much of one's thoughts
It don't agree with YOU
No! It don't, T'otherest Governor, and it's no use a lookin' as if you wanted to make out that it did. I tell you it rankles in you. It rankles in you, rusts in you, and pisons you
Say that it does so
is there no cause for it
Cause enough, I'll bet a pound
Haven't you yourself declared that the fellow has heaped provocations, insults, and affronts on you, or something to that effect? He has done the same by me. He is made of venomous insults and affronts, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot. Are you so hopeful or so stupid, as not to know that he and the other will treat your application with contempt, and light their cigars with it
I shouldn't wonder if they did, by George
If they did! They will. Let me ask you a question. I know something more than your name about you; I knew something about Gaffer Hexam. When did you last set eyes upon his daughter
When did I last set eyes upon his daughter, T'otherest Governor
Yes. Not to speak to her. To see her -- anywhere
I ain't set eyes upon her -- never once -- not since the day of Gaffer's death
You know her well, by sight
I should think I did! No one better
And you know him as well
Who's him
Curse the name! Is it so agreeable to you that you want to hear it again
Oh! HIM
I'd know HIM among a thousand
Did you --' Bradley tried to ask it quietly; but, do what he might with his voice, he could not subdue his face;--'did you ever see them together
I see 'em together, T'otherest Governor, on the very day when Gaffer was towed ashore
You shall put it plain if you want it answered
I ain't a-going a wolunteering
Well! was he insolent to her too
Or did he make a show of being kind to her
He made a show of being most uncommon kind to her
By George! now I
Now I think of it
Now I see you so jealous
P'r'aps he went and took me down wrong, a purpose, on account o' being sweet upon her
agin 'em both
It will not be long then
before we see one another again. Here is the country road, and here is the day. Both have come upon me by surprise
But, T'otherest Governor
I don't know where to find you
It is of no consequence. I know where to find you, and I'll come to your Lock
But, T'otherest Governor
It seems to me
that you have had no money at all, ever since we have been married
What seems to you
to have been the case, may possibly have been the case. It doesn't matter
I have never seen any money in the house
except my own annuity. That I swear
You needn't take the trouble of swearing
once more, it doesn't matter. You never turned your annuity to so good an account
Good an account! In what way
In the way of getting credit, and living well
And what is to happen next
Smash is to happen next
Sophronia
Sophronia
Well
Attend to me, if you please
I want to take counsel with you. Come, come; no more trifling. You know our league and covenant. We are to work together for our joint interest, and you are as knowing a hand as I am. We shouldn't be together, if you were not. What's to be done? We are hemmed into a corner. What shall we do
Have you no scheme on foot that will bring in anything
No; as adventurers we are obliged to play rash games for chances of high winnings, and there has been a run of luck against us
Have you nothing
We, Sophronia. We, we, we
Have we nothing to sell
Deuce a bit. I have given a Jew a bill of sale on this furniture, and he could take it to-morrow, to-day, now. He would have taken it before now, I believe, but for Fledgeby
What has Fledgeby to do with him
Knew him. Cautioned me against him before I got into his claws. Couldn't persuade him then, in behalf of somebody else
Do you mean that Fledgeby has at all softened him towards you
Us, Sophronia. Us, us, us
Towards us
I mean that the Jew has not yet done what he might have done, and that Fledgeby takes the credit of having got him to hold his hand
Do you believe Fledgeby
Sophronia, I never believe anybody. I never have, my dear, since I believed you. But it looks like it
If we could have packed the brute off with Georgiana;-- but however; that's spilled milk
If we could borrow money, Alfred
Beg money, borrow money, or steal money. It would be all one to us, Sophronia
Then, we could weather this
No doubt. To offer another original and undeniable remark, Sophronia, two and two make four
It is natural, Alfred
to think in such an emergency of the richest people we know, and the simplest
Just so, Sophronia
The Boffins
Just so, Sophronia
Is there nothing to be done with them
What is there to be done with them, Sophronia
Of course I have repeatedly thought of the Boffins, Sophronia
but I have seen my way to nothing. They are well guarded. That infernal Secretary stands between them and -- people of merit
If he could be got rid of
Take time, Sophronia
If working him out of the way could be presented in the light of a service to Mr Boffin
Take time, Sophronia
We have remarked lately, Alfred, that the old man is turning very suspicious and distrustful
Miserly too, my dear; which is far the most unpromising for us. Nevertheless, take time, Sophronia, take time
Suppose we should address ourselves to that tendency in him of which we have made ourselves quite sure. Suppose my conscience
And we know what a conscience it is, my soul. Yes
Suppose my conscience should not allow me to keep to myself any longer what that upstart girl told me of the Secretary's having made a declaration to her. Suppose my conscience should oblige me to repeat it to Mr Boffin
I rather like that
Suppose I so repeated it to Mr Boffin, as to insinuate that my sensitive delicacy and honour
Very good words, Sophronia
As to insinuate that OUR sensitive delicacy and honour
would not allow us to be silent parties to so mercenary and designing a speculation on the Secretary's part, and so gross a breach of faith towards his confiding employer. Suppose I had imparted my virtuous uneasiness to my excellent husband, and he had said, in his integrity, "Sophronia, you must immediately disclose this to Mr Boffin
Once more, Sophronia
I rather like that
You remark that he is well guarded
I think so too. But if this should lead to his discharging his Secretary, there would be a weak place made
Go on expounding, Sophronia. I begin to like this very much
Having, in our unimpeachable rectitude, done him the service of opening his eyes to the treachery of the person he trusted, we shall have established a claim upon him and a confidence with him. Whether it can be made much of, or little of, we must wait -- because we can't help it -- to see. Probably we shall make the most of it that is to be made
Probably
Do you think it impossible
that you might replace the Secretary
Not impossible, Sophronia. It might be brought about. At any rate it might be skilfully led up to
Mr Lammle
Mr Lammle would be so delighted to do anything in his power. Mr Lammle, himself a man of business as well as a capitalist. Mr Lammle, accustomed to be intrusted with the most delicate affairs. Mr Lammle, who has managed my own little fortune so admirably, but who, to be sure, began to make his reputation with the advantage of being a man of property, above temptation, and beyond suspicion
It appears to me, Sophronia, that you have omitted one branch of the subject. Perhaps not, for women understand women. We might oust the girl herself
But the dear child
ought to have been open with her benefactor and benefactress. The darling love ought to have reposed unbounded confidence in her benefactor and benefactress
Well! Women understand women
I don't press it. It might be the making of our fortune to make a clean sweep of them both. With me to manage the property, and my wife to manage the people -- Whew
They will never quarrel with the girl. They will never punish the girl. We must accept the girl, rely upon it
Well
so be it: only always remember that we don't want her
Now, the sole remaining question is
when shall I begin
You cannot begin too soon, Sophronia. As I have told you, the condition of our affairs is desperate, and may be blown upon at any moment
I must secure Mr Boffin alone, Alfred. If his wife was present, she would throw oil upon the waters. I know I should fail to move him to an angry outburst, if his wife was there. And as to the girl herself -- as I am going to betray her confidence, she is equally out of the question
It wouldn't do to write for an appointment
No, certainly not. They would wonder among themselves why I wrote, and I want to have him wholly unprepared
Call, and ask to see him alone
I would rather not do that either. Leave it to me. Spare me the little carriage for to-day, and for to-morrow (if I don't succeed to- day), and I'll lie in wait for him
Here's Fledgeby
He admires you, and has a high opinion of you. I'll be out. Coax him to use his influence with the Jew. His name is Riah, of the House of Pubsey and Co
Mr Fledgeby
so glad to see you! My poor dear Alfred, who is greatly worried just now about his affairs, went out rather early. Dear Mr Fledgeby, do sit down
Dear Mr Fledgeby, it was needless to mention to you that my poor dear Alfred is much worried about his affairs at present, for he has told me what a comfort you are to him in his temporary difficulties, and what a great service you have rendered him
Oh
Yes
I didn't know
but that Lammle might be reserved about his affairs
Not to me
Oh, indeed
Not to me, dear Mr Fledgeby. I am his wife
Yes. I -- I always understood so
And as the wife of Alfred, may I, dear Mr Fledgeby, wholly without his authority or knowledge, as I am sure your discernment will perceive, entreat you to continue that great service, and once more use your well-earned influence with Mr Riah for a little more indulgence? The name I have heard Alfred mention, tossing in his dreams, IS Riah; is it not
The name of the Creditor is Riah
Saint Mary Axe. Pubsey and Co
Oh yes
Pubsey and Co
The pleading of the feminine
Heart
No
Gender -- is ever what a man is bound to listen to, and I wish it rested with myself. But this Riah is a nasty one, Mrs Lammle; he really is
Not if YOU speak to him, dear Mr Fledgeby
Upon my soul and body he is
Try. Try once more, dearest Mr Fledgeby. What is there you cannot do, if you will
Thank you
you're very complimentary to say so. I don't mind trying him again, at your request. But of course I can't answer for the consequences. Riah is a tough subject, and when he says he'll do a thing, he'll do it
Exactly so
and when he says to you he'll wait, he'll wait
She is a devilish clever woman
In point of fact, dear Mr Fledgeby
not to affect concealment of Alfred's hopes, to you who are so much his friend, there is a distant break in his horizon
There's a what in his -- eh
Alfred, dear Mr Fledgeby, discussed with me this very morning before he went out, some prospects he has, which might entirely change the aspect of his present troubles
Really
O yes
And you know, dear Mr Fledgeby -- you who study the human heart, and study the world -- what an affliction it would be to lose position and to lose credit, when ability to tide over a very short time might save all appearances
Oh
Then you think, Mrs Lammle, that if Lammle got time, he wouldn't burst up?-- To use an expression
which is adopted in the Money Market
Indeed yes. Truly, truly, yes
That makes all the difference
I'll make a point of seeing Riah at once
Blessings on you, dearest Mr Fledgeby
Not at all
The hand
of a lovely and superior-minded female is ever the repayment of a
Noble action
It wasn't what I was going to say
but you're very complimentary. May I imprint a -- a one -- upon it? Good morning
I may depend upon your promptitude, dearest Mr Fledgeby
You may depend upon it
Now, Judah, what are you up to there
Halloa
You mean mischief, Jerusalem
Yes you do
Oh, you sinner! Oh, you dodger! What! You're going to act upon that bill of sale at Lammle's, are you? Nothing will turn you, won't it? You won't be put off for another single minute, won't you
You have been told that he might pull through it, if you didn't go in to win, Wide-Awake; have you
And it's not your game that he should pull through it; ain't it? You having got security, and there being enough to pay you? Oh, you Jew
Do I go, sir
Asks me if he is going
Asks me, as if he didn't know his own purpose! Asks me, as if he hadn't got his hat on ready! Asks me, as if his sharp old eye -- why, it cuts like a knife -- wasn't looking at his walking-stick by the door
Do I go, sir
Do you go
Yes, you do go. Toddle, Judah
Not his merit that he don't cheat me
but my precaution
Hope I see you well, sir
Mr Riah in
I suppose he will be back soon
he has cut out and left me expecting him back, in an odd way. Haven't I seen you before
Once before -- if you had your eyesight
When you were carrying on some games up at the top of the house. I remember. How's your friend
I have more friends than one, sir, I hope
Which friend
Never mind
any of your friends, all your friends. Are they pretty tolerable
I beg your pardon, sir, but I am used to find Mr Riah at this time, and so I generally come at this time. I only want to buy my poor little two shillings' worth of waste. Perhaps you'll kindly let me have it, and I'll trot off to my work
I let you have it
Why, you don't really suppose that I have anything to do with the place, or the business; do you
Suppose
He said, that day, you were the master
The old cock in black said? Riah said? Why, he'd say anything
Well; but you said so too
Or at least you took on like the master, and didn't contradict him
One of his dodges
He's made of dodges. He said to me, "Come up to the top of the house, sir, and I'll show you a handsome girl. But I shall call you the master." So I went up to the top of the house and he showed me the handsome girl (very well worth looking at she was), and I was called the master. I don't know why. I dare say he don't. He loves a dodge for its own sake; being
the dodgerest of all the dodgers
Oh my head
You can't mean what you say
He has got a bad name as an old Jew, and he is paid for the use of it, and I'll have my money's worth out of him
Mr Riah
I am waiting for him, sir
He went out and left me here. I expect him back every minute. Perhaps you had better take a chair
A fine day, sir
I beg your pardon, sir. I fear you spoke to me
I said
it was a fine day
I beg your pardon. I beg your pardon. Yes
Mr Twemlow, I think
Had the pleasure of dining with you at Lammle's
Even have the honour of being a connexion of yours. An unexpected sort of place this to meet in; but one never knows, when one gets into the City, what people one may knock up against. I hope you have your health, and are enjoying yourself
He's a long time
What time may you make it, Mr Twemlow
As near as a toucher
I hope, Mr Twemlow, your business here may be of a more agreeable character than mine
Thank you, sir
What I know of Mr Riah
leads me to believe that this is about the shop for disagreeable business. I have always found him the bitingest and tightest screw in London
So much so
that if it wasn't to be true to a friend, nobody should catch me waiting here a single minute. But if you have friends in adversity, stand by them. That's what I say and act up to
You are very right, sir
Glad to have your approbation
It's a coincidence, Mr Twemlow;' here he descended from his perch, and sauntered towards him; 'that the friends I am standing by to-day are the friends at whose house I met you! The Lammles. She's a very taking and agreeable woman
Yes
She is
And when she appealed to me this morning, to come and try what I could do to pacify their creditor, this Mr Riah -- that I certainly have gained some little influence with in transacting business for another friend, but nothing like so much as she supposes -- and when a woman like that spoke to me as her dearest Mr Fledgeby, and shed tears -- why what could I do, you know
Nothing but come
Nothing but come. And so I came. But why
why Riah should have started up, when I told him that the Lammles entreated him to hold over a Bill of Sale he has on all their effects; and why he should have cut out, saying he would be back directly; and why he should have left me here alone so long; I cannot understand
I beg your pardon, Mr Twemlow; you see I am acquainted with the nature of the affairs that are transacted here. Is there anything I can do for you here? You have always been brought up as a gentleman, and never as a man of business;' another touch of possible impertinence in this place; 'and perhaps you are but a poor man of business. What else is to be expected
I am even a poorer man of business than I am a man, sir
and I could hardly express my deficiency in a stronger way. I really do not so much as clearly understand my position in the matter on which I am brought here. But there are reasons which make me very delicate of accepting your assistance. I am greatly, greatly, disinclined to profit by it. I don't deserve it
Perhaps
you may be a little proud of entering on the topic,-- having been brought up as a gentleman
It's not that, sir
it's not that. I hope I distinguish between true pride and false pride
I have no pride at all, myself
and perhaps I don't cut things so fine as to know one from t'other. But I know this is a place where even a man of business needs his wits about him; and if mine can be of any use to you here, you're welcome to them
You are very good
But I am most unwilling
I don't, you know
entertain the vanity of supposing that my wits could be of any use to you in society, but they might be here. You cultivate society and society cultivates you, but Mr Riah's not society. In society, Mr Riah is kept dark; eh, Mr Twemlow
Quite true
given him his name
having
always to observe great economy, being in the enjoyment of a fixed income limited in extent, and that depending on the munificence of a certain nobleman
I don't like, Mr Twemlow
I don't like Riah's calling in the principal. If he's determined to call it in, it must come
But supposing, sir
that it can't come
Then
you must go, you know
Where
To prison
However
we'll hope it's not so bad as that comes to. If you'll allow me, I'll mention to Mr Riah when he comes in, who you are, and I'll tell him you're my friend, and I'll say my say for you, instead of your saying it for yourself; I may be able to do it in a more business-like way. You won't consider it a liberty
I thank you again and again, sir
I am strong, strongly, disinclined to avail myself of your generosity, though my helplessness yields. For I cannot but feel that I -- to put it in the mildest form of speech -- that I have done nothing to deserve it
Where CAN he be
What CAN he have gone out for? Did you ever see him, Mr Twemlow
Never
He is a thorough Jew to look at, but he is a more thorough Jew to deal with. He's worst when he's quiet. If he's quiet, I shall take it as a very bad sign. Keep your eye upon him when he comes in, and, if he's quiet, don't be hopeful. Here he is!-- He looks quiet
Why, Mr Riah
I thought you were lost
I really thought
that you were lost, Mr Riah. Why, now I look at you -- but no, you can't have done it; no, you can't have done it
You can't have rushed out to get the start of everybody else, and put in that bill of sale at Lammle's
Say you haven't, Mr Riah
Sir, I have
Oh my eye
Tut, tut, tut! Dear, dear, dear! Well! I knew you were a hard customer, Mr Riah, but I never thought you were as hard as that
Sir
I do as I am directed. I am not the principal here. I am but the agent of a superior, and I have no choice, no power
Don't say so
Don't play the tune of the trade, Mr Riah. You've a right to get in your debts, if you're determined to do it, but don't pretend what every one in your line regularly pretends. At least, don't do it to me. Why should you, Mr Riah? You know I know all about you
And don't
don't, I entreat you as a favour, Mr Riah, be so devilish meek, for I know what'll follow if you are. Look here, Mr Riah. This gentleman is Mr Twemlow
I have made such a failure
in trying to do anything with you for my friend Lammle, that I've hardly a hope of doing anything with you for my friend (and connexion indeed) Mr Twemlow. But I do think that if you would do a favour for anybody, you would for me, and I won't fail for want of trying, and I've passed my promise to Mr Twemlow besides. Now, Mr Riah, here is Mr Twemlow. Always good for his interest, always coming up to time, always paying his little way. Now, why should you press Mr Twemlow? You can't have any spite against Mr Twemlow! Why not be easy with Mr Twemlow
Mr Twemlow is no connexion of yours, Mr Riah
you can't want to be even with him for having through life gone in for a gentleman and hung on to his Family. If Mr Twemlow has a contempt for business, what can it matter to you
But pardon me
I have not. I should consider it presumption
There, Mr Riah
isn't that handsomely said? Come! Make terms with me for Mr Twemlow
I am very sorry, Mr Twemlow
I have my instructions. I am invested with no authority for diverging from them. The money must be paid
In full and slap down, do you mean, Mr Riah
In full, sir, and at once
What a Monster of an Israelite this is
Mr Riah
I know it
Now, I'll put it as a plain point of business, Mr Riah. Are you fully determined (as a plain point of business) either to have that said great party's security, or that said great party's money
Fully determined
Not at all caring for, and indeed as it seems to me rather enjoying
the precious kick-up and row that will come off between Mr Twemlow and the said great party
I thank you very much, sir
You have done me an unmerited service. Thank you, thank you
Don't mention it
It's a failure so far, but I'll stay behind, and take another touch at Mr Riah
Do not deceive yourself Mr Twemlow
There is no hope for you. You must expect no leniency here. You must pay in full, and you cannot pay too promptly, or you will be put to heavy charges. Trust nothing to me, sir. Money, money, money
Halloa
you're forgetting this young lady, Mr Riah, and she has been waiting long enough too. Sell her her waste, please, and give her good measure if you can make up your mind to do the liberal thing for once
There, my Cinderella dear
the basket's full now. Bless you! And get you gone
Don't call me your Cinderella dear
O you cruel godmother
You are not the godmother at all
You are the Wolf in the Forest, the wicked Wolf! And if ever my dear Lizzie is sold and betrayed, I shall know who sold and betrayed her
For well I know, sir
that a man of your delicate mind would wish to be checked off whenever the opportunity arises, and it is not for me to baulk your feelings
Should be glad to be honoured with a call respecting business of your own, about dusk on an early evening
You see, Mr Venus, I've lost no time
Here I am
Here you are, sir
I don't like secrecy
at least, not in a general way I don't -- but I dare say you'll show me good reason for being secret so far
I think I shall, sir
Good
You don't expect Wegg, I take it for granted
No, sir. I expect no one but the present company
The present company
Sir
before entering upon business, I shall have to ask you for your word and honour that we are in confidence
Let's wait a bit and understand what the expression means
In confidence for how long? In confidence for ever and a day
I take your hint, sir
you think you might consider the business, when you came to know it, to be of a nature incompatible with confidence on your part
I might
True, sir. Well, sir
let us put it another way. I open the business with you, relying upon your honour not to do anything in it, and not to mention me in it, without my knowledge
That sounds fair
I agree to that
I have your word and honour, sir
My good fellow
you have my word; and how you can have that, without my honour too, I don't know. I've sorted a lot of dust in my time, but I never knew the two things go into separate heaps
Very true, sir;' and again, 'Very true, sir
Mr Boffin, if I confess to you that I fell into a proposal of which you were the subject, and of which you oughtn't to have been the subject, you will allow me to mention, and will please take into favourable consideration, that I was in a crushed state of mind at the time
Quite so, Venus
That proposal, sir, was a conspiring breach of your confidence, to such an extent, that I ought at once to have made it known to you. But I didn't, Mr Boffin, and I fell into it
Quite so, Venus
Not that I was ever hearty in it, sir
or that I ever viewed myself with anything but reproach for having turned out of the paths of science into the paths of --' he was going to say 'villany
Weggery
Quite so, Venus
And now, sir
having prepared your mind in the rough, I will articulate the details
Quite so, Venus
I have astonished you, sir, I believe
Quite so, Venus
Now, sir
you best know what was in that Dutch bottle, and why you dug it up, and took it away. I don't pretend to know anything more about it than I saw. All I know is this: I am proud of my calling after all (though it has been attended by one dreadful drawback which has told upon my heart, and almost equally upon my skeleton), and I mean to live by my calling. Putting the same meaning into other words, I do not mean to turn a single dishonest penny by this affair. As the best amends I can make you for having ever gone into it, I make known to you, as a warning, what Wegg has found out. My opinion is, that Wegg is not to be silenced at a modest price, and I build that opinion on his beginning to dispose of your property the moment he knew his power. Whether it's worth your while to silence him at any price, you will decide for yourself, and take your measures accordingly. As far as I am concerned, I have no price. If I am ever called upon for the truth, I tell it, but I want to do no more than I have now done and ended
Thank'ee, Venus
thank'ee, Venus, thank'ee, Venus
But look here, Venus
if I have to buy Wegg up, I shan't buy him any cheaper for your being out of it. Instead of his having half the money -- it was to have been half, I suppose? Share and share alike
It was to have been half, sir
Instead of that, he'll now have all. I shall pay the same, if not more. For you tell me he's an unconscionable dog, a ravenous rascal
He is
Don't you think, Venus
don't you feel as if -- you might like to pretend to be in it till Wegg was bought up, and then ease your mind by handing over to me what you had made believe to pocket
No I don't, sir
Not to make amends
No, sir. It seems to me, after maturely thinking it over, that the best amends for having got out of the square is to get back into the square
Humph
When you say the square, you mean
I mean
the right
It appears to me
that the right is with me, if it's anywhere. I have much more right to the old man's money than the Crown can ever have. What was the Crown to him except the King's Taxes? Whereas, me and my wife, we was all in all to him
She did not wish so to regard herself, nor yet to be so regarded
And how am I to live
if I'm to be going buying fellows up out of the little that I've got? And how am I to set about it? When am I to get my money ready? When am I to make a bid? You haven't told me when he threatens to drop down upon me
I suppose
there's no doubt about the genuineness and date of this confounded will
None whatever
Where might it be deposited at present
It's in my possession, sir
Is it
Now, for any liberal sum of money that could be agreed upon, Venus, would you put it in the fire
No, sir, I wouldn't
Nor pass it over to me
That would be the same thing. No, sir
Hush! here's Wegg
Get behind the young alligator in the corner, Mr Boffin, and judge him for yourself. I won't light a candle till he's gone; there'll only be the glow of the fire; Wegg's well acquainted with the alligator, and he won't take particular notice of him. Draw your legs in, Mr Boffin, at present I see a pair of shoes at the end of his tail. Get your head well behind his smile, Mr Boffin, and you'll lie comfortable there; you'll find plenty of room behind his smile. He's a little dusty, but he's very like you in tone. Are you right, sir
Partner
how's yourself
Tolerable
Not much to boast of
In-deed
sorry, partner, that you're not picking up faster, but your soul's too large for your body, sir; that's where it is. And how's our stock in trade, partner? Safe bind, safe find, partner? Is that about it
Do you wish to see it
If you please, partner
All right, sir
all right
There's nothing new, I suppose
Yes there is, sir
there was something new this morning. That foxey old grasper and griper
Mr Boffin
Mister be blowed
Boffin. Dusty Boffin. That foxey old grunter and grinder, sir, turns into the yard this morning, to meddle with our property, a menial tool of his own, a young man by the name of Sloppy. Ecod, when I say to him, "What do you want here, young man? This is a private yard," he pulls out a paper from Boffin's other blackguard, the one I was passed over for. "This is to authorize Sloppy to overlook the carting and to watch the work." That's pretty strong, I think, Mr Venus
Remember he doesn't know yet of our claim on the property
Then he must have a hint of it
and a strong one that'll jog his terrors a bit. Give him an inch, and he'll take an ell. Let him alone this time, and what'll he do with our property next? I tell you what, Mr Venus; it comes to this; I must be overbearing with Boffin, or I shall fly into several pieces. I can't contain myself when I look at him. Every time I see him putting his hand in his pocket, I see him putting it into my pocket. Every time I hear him jingling his money, I hear him taking liberties with my money. Flesh and blood can't bear it. No
and I'll go further. A wooden leg can't bear it
But, Mr Wegg
it was your own idea that he should not be exploded upon, till the Mounds were carted away
But it was likewise my idea, Mr Venus
that if he came sneaking and sniffing about the property, he should be threatened, given to understand that he has no right to it, and be made our slave. Wasn't that my idea, Mr Venus
It certainly was, Mr Wegg
It certainly was, as you say, partner
Very well. I consider his planting one of his menial tools in the yard, an act of sneaking and sniffing. And his nose shall be put to the grindstone for it
It was not your fault, Mr Wegg, I must admit
that he got off with the Dutch bottle that night
As you handsomely say again, partner! No, it was not my fault. I'd have had that bottle out of him. Was it to be borne that he should come, like a thief in the dark, digging among stuff that was far more ours than his (seeing that we could deprive him of every grain of it, if he didn't buy us at our own figure), and carrying off treasure from its bowels? No, it was not to be borne. And for that, too, his nose shall be put to the grindstone
How do you propose to do it, Mr Wegg
To put his nose to the grindstone? I propose
to insult him openly. And, if looking into this eye of mine, he dares to offer a word in answer, to retort upon him before he can take his breath, "Add another word to that, you dusty old dog, and you're a beggar
Suppose he says nothing, Mr Wegg
Then
we shall have come to an understanding with very little trouble, and I'll break him and drive him, Mr Venus. I'll put him in harness, and I'll bear him up tight, and I'll break him and drive him. The harder the old Dust is driven, sir, the higher he'll pay. And I mean to be paid high, Mr Venus, I promise you
You speak quite revengefully, Mr Wegg
Revengefully, sir? Is it for him that I have declined and falled, night after night? Is it for his pleasure that I've waited at home of an evening, like a set of skittles, to be set up and knocked over, set up and knocked over, by whatever balls -- or books -- he chose to bring against me? Why, I'm a hundred times the man he is, sir; five hundred times
What? Was it outside the house at present ockypied, to its disgrace, by that minion of fortune and worm of the hour
that I, Silas Wegg, five hundred times the man he ever was, sat in all weathers, waiting for a errand or a customer? Was it outside that very house as I first set eyes upon him, rolling in the lap of luxury, when I was selling halfpenny ballads there for a living? And am I to grovel in the dust for HIM to walk over? No
All about this was quite familiar knowledge down in the depths of the slime, ages ago
But
I shall have a word or two to say to you, Mr Wegg, before long
respecting my share in the project we've been speaking of
My time, sir
is yours. In the meanwhile let it be fully understood that I shall not neglect bringing the grindstone to bear, nor yet bringing Dusty Boffin's nose to it. His nose once brought to it, shall be held to it by these hands, Mr Venus, till the sparks flies out in showers
Wait till I light a candle, Mr Boffin
and you'll come out more comfortable
That's a treacherous fellow
That's a dreadful fellow
The alligator, sir
No, Venus, no. The Serpent
You'll have the goodness to notice, Mr Boffin
that I said nothing to him about my going out of the affair altogether, because I didn't wish to take you anyways by surprise. But I can't be too soon out of it for my satisfaction, Mr Boffin, and I now put it to you when it will suit your views for me to retire
Thank'ee, Venus, thank'ee, Venus; but I don't know what to say
I don't know what to do. He'll drop down on me any way. He seems fully determined to drop down; don't he
You might be a sort of protection for me, if you remained in it
you might stand betwixt him and me, and take the edge off him. Don't you feel as if you could make a show of remaining in it, Venus, till I had time to turn myself round
I am sure I don't know
Everything is so at sixes and sevens. If I had never come into the property, I shouldn't have minded. But being in it, it would be very trying to be turned out; now, don't you acknowledge that it would, Venus
I am sure I don't know what to do
If I ask advice of any one else, it's only letting in another person to be bought out, and then I shall be ruined that way, and might as well have given up the property and gone slap to the workhouse. If I was to take advice of my young man, Rokesmith, I should have to buy HIM out. Sooner or later, of course, he'd drop down upon me, like Wegg. I was brought into the world to be dropped down upon, it appears to me
After all, you haven't said what you mean to do yourself, Venus. When you do go out of it, how do you mean to go
And then he drops down with his whole weight upon ME
I'd sooner be dropped upon by you than by him, or even by you jintly, than by him alone
How long could you be persuaded to keep up the appearance of remaining in it
Could you be got to do so, till the Mounds are gone
Not if I was to show you reason now
not if I was to show you good and sufficient reason
Come and see me, Venus
at my house
Is the reason there, sir
It may be, or may not be
just as you view it. But in the meantime don't go out of the matter. Look here. Do this. Give me your word that you won't take any steps with Wegg, without my knowledge, just as I have given you my word that I won't without yours
Done, Mr Boffin
Thank'ee, Venus, thank'ee, Venus! Done
When shall I come to see you, Mr Boffin
When you like. The sooner the better. I must be going now. Good-night, Venus
Good-night, sir
And good-night to the rest of the present company
They make a queer show, Venus, and I should like to be better acquainted with them some day. Good-night, Venus, good-night! Thankee, Venus, thankee, Venus
Now, I wonder
whether it can be, that Venus is setting himself to get the better of Wegg? Whether it can be, that he means, when I have bought Wegg out, to have me all to himself and to pick me clean to the bones
I beg your pardon, Ma'am
It is Mrs Lammle
Not very well, dear Mr Boffin; I have fluttered myself by being -- perhaps foolishly -- uneasy and anxious. I have been waiting for you some time. Can I speak to you
I would rather not, Mr Boffin, unless you particularly wish it. I feel the difficulty and delicacy of the matter so much that I would rather avoid speaking to you at your own home. You must think this very strange
It is because I am so grateful for the good opinion of all my friends, and am so touched by it, that I cannot bear to run the risk of forfeiting it in any case, even in the cause of duty. I have asked my husband (my dear Alfred, Mr Boffin) whether it is the cause of duty, and he has most emphatically said Yes. I wish I had asked him sooner. It would have spared me much distress
Can this be more dropping down upon me
It was Alfred who sent me to you, Mr Boffin. Alfred said, "Don't come back, Sophronia, until you have seen Mr Boffin, and told him all. Whatever he may think of it, he ought certainly to know it." Would you mind coming into the carriage
Not at all
Drive slowly anywhere
and don't let the carriage rattle
It MUST he more dropping down, I think
What next
I am forbidden to speak to you about it, Bella dear; I mustn't tell you
Don't be alarmed, my dear
I am not angry with you. Why you actually tremble! Don't be alarmed, Bella my dear. I'll see you righted
See me righted
see me righted, sir
Ay, ay
See you righted. Send Mr Rokesmith here, you sir
Shut the door, sir
I have got something to say to you which I fancy you'll not be pleased to hear
I am sorry to reply, Mr Boffin
that I think that very likely
What do you mean
I mean that it has become no novelty to me to hear from your lips what I would rather not hear
Oh! Perhaps we shall change that
I hope so
Now, sir
I say to you, sir
I do so
How dare you, sir
tamper, unknown to me, with this young lady? How dare you come out of your station, and your place in my house, to pester this young lady with your impudent addresses
I must decline to answer questions
that are so offensively asked
You decline to answer
You decline to answer, do you? Then I'll tell you what it is, Rokesmith; I'll answer for you. There are two sides to this matter, and I'll take 'em separately. The first side is, sheer Insolence. That's the first side
So I see and hear
It was sheer Insolence in you, I tell you
even to think of this young lady. This young lady was far above YOU. This young lady was no match for YOU. This young lady was lying in wait (as she was qualified to do) for money, and you had no money
What are you, I should like to know
that you were to have the audacity to follow up this young lady? This young lady was looking about the market for a good bid; she wasn't in it to be snapped up by fellows that had no money to lay out; nothing to buy with
Oh, Mr Boffin! Mrs Boffin, pray say something for me
Old lady
you hold your tongue. Bella, my dear, don't you let yourself be put out. I'll right you
But you don't, you don't right me
You wrong me, wrong me
Don't you be put out, my dear
I'll bring this young man to book. Now, you Rokesmith! You can't decline to hear, you know, as well as to answer. You hear me tell you that the first side of your conduct was Insolence -- Insolence and Presumption. Answer me one thing, if you can. Didn't this young lady tell you so herself
Did I, Mr Rokesmith
O say, Mr Rokesmith! Did I
Don't be distressed, Miss Wilfer; it matters very little now
Ah! You can't deny it, though
But I have asked him to forgive me since
and I would ask him to forgive me now again, upon my knees, if it would spare him
Old lady
stop that noise! Tender-hearted in you, Miss Bella; but I mean to have it out right through with this young man, having got him into a corner. Now, you Rokesmith. I tell you that's one side of your conduct -- Insolence and Presumption. Now, I'm a-coming to the other, which is much worse. This was a speculation of yours
I indignantly deny it
It's of no use your denying it; it doesn't signify a bit whether you deny it or not; I've got a head upon my shoulders, and it ain't a baby's. What
Don't I know what grabs are made at a man with money? If I didn't keep my eyes open, and my pockets buttoned, shouldn't I be brought to the workhouse before I knew where I was? Wasn't the experience of Dancer, and Elwes, and Hopkins, and Blewbury Jones, and ever so many more of 'em, similar to mine? Didn't everybody want to make grabs at what they'd got, and bring 'em to poverty and ruin? Weren't they forced to hide everything belonging to 'em, for fear it should be snatched from 'em? Of course they was. I shall be told next that they didn't know human natur
They! Poor creatures
What do you say
However, you needn't be at the trouble of repeating it, for it ain't worth hearing, and won't go down with ME. I'm a-going to unfold your plan, before this young lady; I'm a-going to show this young lady the second view of you; and nothing you can say will stave it off. (Now, attend here, Bella, my dear.) Rokesmith, you're a needy chap. You're a chap that I pick up in the street. Are you, or ain't you
Go on, Mr Boflin; don't appeal to me
Not appeal to YOU
No, I should hope not! Appealing to YOU, would be rather a rum course. As I was saying, you're a needy chap that I pick up in the street. You come and ask me in the street to take you for a Secretary, and I take you. Very good
Very bad
What do you say
This Rokesmith is a needy young man that I take for my Secretary out of the open street. This Rokesmith gets acquainted with my affairs, and gets to know that I mean to settle a sum of money on this young lady. "Oho!" says this Rokesmith
This will be a good haul; I'll go in for this!" And so this Rokesmith, greedy and hungering, begins a-creeping on his hands and knees towards the money. Not so bad a speculation either: for if this young lady had had less spirit, or had had less sense, through being at all in the romantic line, by George he might have worked it out and made it pay! But fortunately she was too many for him, and a pretty figure he cuts now he is exposed. There he stands
Look at him
Your unfortunate suspicions, Mr Boffin
Precious unfortunate for you, I can tell you
are not to be combated by any one, and I address myself to no such hopeless task. But I will say a word upon the truth
Yah! Much you care about the truth
Noddy! My dear love
Old lady
you keep still. I say to this Rokesmith here, much he cares about the truth. I tell him again, much he cares about the truth
Our connexion being at an end, Mr Boffin
it can be of very little moment to me what you say
Oh! You are knowing enough
to have found out that our connexion's at an end, eh? But you can't get beforehand with me. Look at this in my hand. This is your pay, on your discharge. You can only follow suit. You can't deprive me of the lead. Let's have no pretending that you discharge yourself. I discharge you
So that I go
it is all one to me
Is it
But it's two to me, let me tell you. Allowing a fellow that's found out, to discharge himself, is one thing; discharging him for insolence and presumption, and likewise for designs upon his master's money, is another. One and one's two; not one. (Old lady, don't you cut in. You keep still
Have you said all you wish to say to me
I don't know whether I have or not
It depends
Perhaps you will consider whether there are any other strong expressions that you would like to bestow upon me
I'll consider that
at my convenience, and not at yours. You want the last word. It may not be suitable to let you have it
Noddy! My dear, dear Noddy! You sound so hard
Old lady
if you cut in when requested not, I'll get a pillow and carry you out of the room upon it. What do you want to say, you Rokesmith
To you, Mr Boffin, nothing. But to Miss Wilfer and to your good kind wife, a word
Out with it then
and cut it short, for we've had enough of you
I have borne
with my false position here, that I might not be separated from Miss Wilfer. To be near her, has been a recompense to me from day to day, even for the undeserved treatment I have had here, and for the degraded aspect in which she has often seen me. Since Miss Wilfer rejected me, I have never again urged my suit, to the best of my belief, with a spoken syllable or a look. But I have never changed in my devotion to her, except -- if she will forgive my saying so -- that it is deeper than it was, and better founded
Now, mark this chap's saying Miss Wilfer, when he means L.s.d
Now, mark this chap's making Miss Wilfer stand for Pounds, Shillings, and Pence
My feeling for Miss Wilfer
is not one to be ashamed of. I avow it. I love her. Let me go where I may when I presently leave this house, I shall go into a blank life, leaving her
Leaving L.s.d. behind me
That I am incapable
of a mercenary project, or a mercenary thought, in connexion with Miss Wilfer, is nothing meritorious in me, because any prize that I could put before my fancy would sink into insignificance beside her. If the greatest wealth or the highest rank were hers, it would only be important in my sight as removing her still farther from me, and making me more hopeless, if that could be. Say
say that with a word she could strip Mr Boffin of his fortune and take possession of it, she would be of no greater worth in my eyes than she is
What do you think by this time, old lady
about this Rokesmith here, and his caring for the truth? You needn't say what you think, my dear, because I don't want you to cut in, but you can think it all the same. As to taking possession of my property, I warrant you he wouldn't do that himself if he could
No
Ha, ha, ha
un while you ARE about it
I have been for a moment
diverted from the little I have to say. My interest in Miss Wilfer began when I first saw her; even began when I had only heard of her. It was, in fact, the cause of my throwing myself in Mr Boffin's way, and entering his service. Miss Wilfer has never known this until now. I mention it now, only as a corroboration (though I hope it may be needless) of my being free from the sordid design attributed to me
Now, this is a very artful dog
This is a longer-headed schemer than I thought him. See how patiently and methodically he goes to work. He gets to know about me and my property, and about this young lady, and her share in poor young John's story, and he puts this and that together, and he says to himself, "I'll get in with Boffin, and I'll get in with this young lady, and I'll work 'em both at the same time, and I'll bring my pigs to market somewhere." I hear him say it, bless you! I look at him, now, and I see him say it
But luckily he hadn't to deal with the people he supposed, Bella, my dear
No! Luckily he had to deal with you, and with me, and with Daniel and Miss Dancer, and with Elwes, and with Vulture Hopkins, and with Blewbury Jones and all the rest of us, one down t'other come on. And he's beat; that's what he is; regularly beat. He thought to squeeze money out of us, and he has done for himself instead, Bella my dear
There's your pay, Mister Rokesmith
I dare say you can stoop to pick it up, after what you have stooped to here
I have stooped to nothing but this
and this is mine, for I have earned it by the hardest of hard labour
You're a pretty quick packer, I hope
because the sooner you are gone, bag and baggage, the better for all parties
You need have no fear of my lingering
There's just one thing though
that I should like to ask you before we come to a good riddance, if it was only to show this young lady how conceited you schemers are, in thinking that nobody finds out how you contradict yourselves
Ask me anything you wish to ask
but use the expedition that you recommend
You pretend to have a mighty admiration for this young lady
I do not pretend
Oh! Well. You HAVE a mighty admiration for this young lady -- since you are so particular
Yes
How do you reconcile that, with this young lady's being a weak- spirited, improvident idiot, not knowing what was due to herself, flinging up her money to the church-weathercocks, and racing off at a splitting pace for the workhouse
I don't understand you
Don't you? Or won't you? What else could you have made this young lady out to be, if she had listened to such addresses as yours
What else, if I had been so happy as to win her affections and possess her heart
Win her affections
and possess her heart! Mew says the cat, Quack-quack says the duck, Bow-wow-wow says the dog! Win her affections and possess her heart! Mew, Quack-quack, Bow-wow
What is due to this young lady
is Money, and this young lady right well knows it
You slander the young lady
YOU slander the young lady; you with your affections and hearts and trumpery
It's of a piece with the rest of your behaviour. I heard of these doings of yours only last night, or you should have heard of 'em from me, sooner, take your oath of it. I heard of 'em from a lady with as good a headpiece as the best, and she knows this young lady, and I know this young lady, and we all three know that it's Money she makes a stand for -- money, money, money -- and that you and your affections and hearts are a Lie, sir
Mrs Boffin
for your delicate and unvarying kindness I thank you with the warmest gratitude. Good-bye! Miss Wilfer, good-bye
And now, my dear
you may begin to make yourself quite comfortable, and I hope you feel that you've been righted
O Mr Rokesmith, before you go, if you could but make me poor again! O! Make me poor again, Somebody, I beg and pray, or my heart will break if this goes on! Pa, dear, make me poor again and take me home! I was bad enough there, but I have been so much worse here. Don't give me money, Mr Boffin, I won't have money. Keep it away from me, and only let me speak to good little Pa, and lay my head upon his shoulder, and tell him all my griefs. Nobody else can understand me, nobody else can comfort me, nobody else knows how unworthy I am, and yet can love me like a little child. I am better with Pa than any one -- more innocent, more sorry, more glad
There, my dear, there; you are righted now, and it's ALL right. I don't wonder, I'm sure, at your being a little flurried by having a scene with this fellow, but it's all over, my dear, and you're righted, and it's -- and it's ALL right
I hate you
at least, I can't hate you, but I don't like you
HUL -- LO
You're a scolding, unjust, abusive, aggravating, bad old creature
I am angry with my ungrateful self for calling you names; but you are, you are; you know you are
I have heard you with shame
With shame for myself, and with shame for you. You ought to be above the base tale- bearing of a time-serving woman; but you are above nothing now
When I came here, I respected you and honoured you, and I soon loved you
And now I can't bear the sight of you. At least, I don't know that I ought to go so far as that -- only you're a -- you're a Monster
The best wish I can wish you is
that you had not one single farthing in the world. If any true friend and well-wisher could make you a bankrupt, you would be a Duck; but as a man of property you are a Demon
Mr Rokesmith, pray stay one moment. Pray hear one word from me before you go! I am deeply sorry for the reproaches you have borne on my account. Out of the depths of my heart I earnestly and truly beg your pardon
God bless you
There is not an ungenerous word that I have heard addressed to you -- heard with scorn and indignation, Mr Rokesmith -- but it has wounded me far more than you, for I have deserved it, and you never have. Mr Rokesmith, it is to me you owe this perverted account of what passed between us that night. I parted with the secret, even while I was angry with myself for doing so. It was very bad in me, but indeed it was not wicked. I did it in a moment of conceit and folly -- one of my many such moments -- one of my many such hours -- years. As I am punished for it severely, try to forgive it
I do with all my soul
Thank you. O thank you! Don't part from me till I have said one other word, to do you justice. The only fault you can be truly charged with, in having spoken to me as you did that night -- with how much delicacy and how much forbearance no one but I can know or be grateful to you for -- is, that you laid yourself open to be slighted by a worldly shallow girl whose head was turned, and who was quite unable to rise to the worth of what you offered her. Mr Rokesmith, that girl has often seen herself in a pitiful and poor light since, but never in so pitiful and poor a light as now, when the mean tone in which she answered you -- sordid and vain girl that she was -- has been echoed in her ears by Mr Boffin
Mr Boffin's speeches were detestable to me, shocking to me
It is quite true that there was a time, and very lately, when I deserved to be so "righted," Mr Rokesmith; but I hope that I shall never deserve it again
He is gone
He has been most shamefully abused, and most unjustly and most basely driven away, and I am the cause of it
Well
I must go home
I am very grateful to you for all you have done for me, but I can't stay here
My darling girl
No, I can't stay here
I can't indeed.-- Ugh! you vicious old thing
Don't be rash, my love
Think well of what you do
Yes, you had better think well
I shall never more think well of YOU
No! Never again! Your money has changed you to marble. You are a hard- hearted Miser. You are worse than Dancer, worse than Hopkins, worse than Blackberry Jones, worse than any of the wretches. And more
you were wholly undeserving of the Gentleman you have lost
Why, you don't mean to say, Miss Bella
that you set up Rokesmith against me
I do
He is worth a Million of you
I would rather he thought well of me
though he swept the street for bread, than that you did, though you splashed the mud upon him from the wheels of a chariot of pure gold.-- There
Well I'm sure
And for a long time past, when you have thought you set yourself above him, I have only seen you under his feet
There! And throughout I saw in him the master, and I saw in you the man -- There! And when you used him shamefully, I took his part and loved him -- There! I boast of it
Now, look here
Give me your attention, Bella. I am not angry
I AM
I say
I am not angry, and I mean kindly to you, and I want to overlook this. So you'll stay where you are, and we'll agree to say no more about it
No, I can't stay here
I can't think of staying here. I must go home for good
Now, don't be silly
Don't do what you can't undo; don't do what you're sure to be sorry for
I shall never be sorry for it
and I should always be sorry, and should every minute of my life despise myself if I remained here after what has happened
At least, Bella
let there be no mistake about it. Look before you leap, you know. Stay where you are, and all's well, and all's as it was to be. Go away, and you can never come back
I know that I can never come back, and that's what I mean
You mustn't expect
that I'm a-going to settle money on you, if you leave us like this, because I am not. No, Bella! Be careful! Not one brass farthing
Expect
Do you think that any power on earth could make me take it, if you did, sir
You're a dear, a dear, the best of dears
You're the best of human creatures. I can never be thankful enough to you, and I can never forget you. If I should live to be blind and deaf I know I shall see and hear you, in my fancy, to the last of my dim old days
I am very glad
that I called you names, sir, because you richly deserved it. But I am very sorry that I called you names, because you used to be so different. Say good-bye
Good-bye
If I knew which of your hands was the least spoilt, I would ask you to let me touch it
for the last time. But not because I repent of what I have said to you. For I don't. It's true
Try the left hand
it's the least used
You have been wonderfully good and kind to me
and I kiss it for that. You have been as bad as bad could be to Mr Rokesmith, and I throw it away for that. Thank you for myself, and good-bye
Good-bye
I won't take one of the others
I'll leave all the presents behind, and begin again entirely on my own account
Now, I am complete
It's a little trying, but I have steeped my eyes in cold water, and I won't cry any more. You have been a pleasant room to me, dear room. Adieu! We shall never see each other again
That was well done
If I had left myself any breath to cry with, I should have cried again. Now poor dear darling little Pa, you are going to see your lovely woman unexpectedly
My gracious me
For it's after hours and I am all alone, my dear
and am having -- as I sometimes do when they are all gone -- a quiet tea
I never was so surprised, my dear
I couldn't believe my eyes. Upon my life, I thought they had taken to lying! The idea of your coming down the Lane yourself! Why didn't you send the footman down the Lane, my dear
I have brought no footman with me, Pa
Oh indeed! But you have brought the elegant turn-out, my love
No, Pa
You never can have walked, my dear
Yes, I have, Pa
The consequence is, Pa, that your lovely woman feels a little faint, and would very much like to share your tea
My dear child
the idea of your partaking of such lowly fare! But at least you must have your own loaf and your own penn'orth. One moment, my dear. The Dairy is just over the way and round the corner
My dear child
the idea of a splendid
What's the matter, Pa
of a splendid female
putting up with such accommodation as the present!-- Is that a new dress you have on, my dear
No, Pa, an old one. Don't you remember it
Why, I THOUGHT I remembered it, my dear
You should, for you bought it, Pa
Yes, I THOUGHT I bought it my dear
And have you grown so fickle that you don't like your own taste, Pa dear
Well, my love
I should have thought it was hardly sufficiently splendid for existing circumstances
And so, Pa
you sometimes have a quiet tea here all alone? I am not in the tea's way, if I draw my arm over your shoulder like this, Pa
Yes, my dear, and no, my dear. Yes to the first question, and Certainly Not to the second. Respecting the quiet tea, my dear, why you see the occupations of the day are sometimes a little wearing; and if there's nothing interposed between the day and your mother, why SHE is sometimes a little wearing, too
I know, Pa
Yes, my dear. So sometimes I put a quiet tea at the window here, with a little quiet contemplation of the Lane (which comes soothing), between the day, and domestic
Bliss
And domestic Bliss
And it is in this dark dingy place of captivity, poor dear, that you pass all the hours of your life when you are not at home
Not at home, or not on the road there, or on the road here, my love. Yes. You see that little desk in the corner
In the dark corner, furthest both from the light and from the fireplace? The shabbiest desk of all the desks
Now, does it really strike you in that point of view, my dear
that's mine. That's called Rumty's Perch
Whose Perch
Rumty's. You see, being rather high and up two steps they call it a Perch. And they call ME Rumty
How dare they
They're playful, Bella my dear; they're playful. They're more or less younger than I am, and they're playful. What does it matter? It might be Surly, or Sulky, or fifty disagreeable things that I really shouldn't like to be considered. But Rumty! Lor, why not Rumty
I should have done better
to tell him at first; I should have done better to tell him just now, when he had some slight misgiving; he is quite happy again, and I shall make him wretched
Pa dear, don't be cast down, but I must tell you something disagreeable
My gracious me
This is very extraordinary
What is, Pa
Why here's Mr Rokesmith now
No, no, Pa, no
Surely not
Yes there is! Look here
My dear, dear girl; my gallant, generous, disinterested, courageous, noble girl
I knew you would come to him, and I followed you
My love, my life! You ARE mine
Yes, I AM yours if you think me worth taking
But we must think of dear Pa
I haven't told dear Pa; let us speak to Pa
I wish first, my dear
that you'd have the kindness to sprinkle me with a little milk, for I feel as if I was -- Going
We'll break it to you gently, dearest Pa
My dear
you broke so much in the first -- Gush, if I may so express myself -- that I think I am equal to a good large breakage now
Mr Wilfer
Bella takes me, though I have no fortune, even no present occupation; nothing but what I can get in the life before us. Bella takes me
Yes, I should rather have inferred, my dear sir
that Bella took you, from what I have within these few minutes remarked
You don't know, Pa
how ill I have used him
You don't know, sir
what a heart she has
You don't know, Pa
what a shocking creature I was growing, when he saved me from myself
You don't know, sir
what a sacrifice she has made for me
My dear Bella
and my dear John Rokesmith, if you will allow me so to call you
Yes do, Pa, do
I allow you, and my will is his law. Isn't it -- dear John Rokesmith
I think, my dears
that if you could make it convenient to sit one on one side of me, and the other on the other, we should get on rather more consecutively, and make things rather plainer. John Rokesmith mentioned, a while ago, that he had no present occupation
None
No, Pa, none
From which I argue
that he has left Mr Boffin
Yes, Pa. And so
Stop a bit, my dear. I wish to lead up to it by degrees. And that Mr Boffin has not treated him well
Has treated him most shamefully, dear Pa
Of which
a certain mercenary young person distantly related to myself, could not approve? Am I leading up to it right
Could not approve, sweet Pa
Upon which
the certain mercenary young person distantly related to myself, having previously observed and mentioned to myself that prosperity was spoiling Mr Boffin, felt that she must not sell her sense of what was right and what was wrong, and what was true and what was false, and what was just and what was unjust, for any price that could be paid to her by any one alive? Am I leading up to it right
And therefore -- and therefore
this mercenary young person distantly related to myself, refused the price, took off the splendid fashions that were part of it, put on the comparatively poor dress that I had last given her, and trusting to my supporting her in what was right, came straight to me. Have I led up to it
The mercenary young person distantly related to myself
did well! The mercenary young person distantly related to myself, did not trust to me in vain! I admire this mercenary young person distantly related to myself, more in this dress than if she had come to me in China silks, Cashmere shawls, and Golconda diamonds. I love this young person dearly. I say to the man of this young person's heart, out of my heart and with all of it, "My blessing on this engagement betwixt you, and she brings you a good fortune when she brings you the poverty she has accepted for your sake and the honest truth's
And now, my dear child, if you think you can entertain John Rokesmith for a minute and a half, I'll run over to the Dairy, and fetch HIM a cottage loaf and a drink of milk, that we may all have tea together
Somebody's been drinking MY milk
To think
that anything of a tender nature should come off here, is what tickles me. To think that ever I should have seen my Bella folded in the arms of her future husband, HERE, you know
Hem!-- Have you thought at all about your mother, my dear
Yes, Pa
And your sister Lavvy, for instance, my dear
Yes, Pa. I think we had better not enter into particulars at home. I think it will be quite enough to say that I had a difference with Mr Boffin, and have left for good
John Rokesmith being acquainted with your Ma, my love
I need have no delicacy in hinting before him that you may perhaps find your Ma a little wearing
A little, patient Pa
Well! We'll say, strictly in confidence among ourselves, wearing; we won't qualify it
And your sister's temper is wearing
I don't mind, Pa
And you must prepare yourself you know, my precious
for our looking very poor and meagre at home, and being at the best but very uncomfortable, after Mr Boffin's house
I don't mind, Pa. I could bear much harder trials -- for John
Well
when you -- when you come back from retirement, my love, and reappear on the surface, I think it will be time to lock up and go
Show me what you do here all day long, dear Pa. Do you write like this
I think, my dears, I'll take the lead on the other side of the road, and seem not to belong to you
I think, John
that if you can spare me the young person distantly related to myself, I'll take her in
I can't spare her
but I must lend her to you
Now, dearest Pa
put your hand in mine, and we'll run home as fast as ever we can run, and get it over. Now, Pa. Once
My dear
I was going to observe that if your mother
You mustn't hang back, sir, to gain time
do you see that, sir? That's the mark; come up to the mark, sir. Once! Twice! Three times and away, Pa
Now, dear Pa
we are in for it
Why, it's never Bella
Ma! Here's Bella
My child is welcome, though unlooked for
You too, R. W., are welcome, though late. Does the male domestic of Mrs Boffin hear me there
There is no one waiting, Ma, dear
There is no one waiting
No, Ma, dear
An Enigma
you have taken the precaution of making some addition to our frugal supper on your way home, it will prove but a distasteful one to Bella. Cold neck of mutton and a lettuce can ill compete with the luxuries of Mr Boffin's board
Pray don't talk like that, Ma dear
Mr Boffin's board is nothing to me
Why, Bella
Yes, Lavvy, I know
Why, Bella
Yes, Lavvy, I know what I have got on. I was going to tell Ma when you interrupted. I have left Mr Boffin's house for good, Ma, and I have come home again
In short, dear Ma
I have had a very serious difference with Mr Boffin on the subject of his treatment of a member of his household, and it's a final difference, and there's an end of all
And I am bound to tell you, my dear
that Bella has acted in a truly brave spirit, and with a truly right feeling. And therefore I hope, my dear, you'll not allow yourself to be greatly disappointed
George
George Sampson, speak! What did I tell you about those Boffins
Yes indeed
Yes! I told George Sampson, as George Sampson tells you, said Miss Lavvy, 'that those hateful Boffins would pick a quarrel with Bella, as soon as her novelty had worn off. Have they done it, or have they not? Was I right, or was I wrong? And what do you say to us, Bella, of your Boffins now
Lavvy and Ma
I say of Mr and Mrs Boffin what I always have said; and I always shall say of them what I always have said. But nothing will induce me to quarrel with any one to- night. I hope you are not sorry to see me, Ma dear
and I hope you are not sorry to see me, Lavvy
and as I notice the lettuce Ma mentioned, on the table, I'll make the salad
Now, Ma dear
the salad's ready, and it's past supper-time
George
Ma's chair
Lavvy, I dare say your Ma would take some lettuce if you were to put it on her plate
What is this I am doing
It was not worth troubling you about, Bella, when you were in a sphere so far removed from your family as to make it a matter in which you could be expected to take very little interest
but George Sampson is paying his addresses to me
George is getting on very well
and I dare say we shall be married, one of these days. I didn't care to mention it when you were with your Bof
when you were with Mr and Mrs Boffin; but now I think it sisterly to name the circumstance
Thank you, Lavvy dear. I congratulate you
Thank you, Bella. The truth is, George and I did discuss whether I should tell you; but I said to George that you wouldn't be much interested in so paltry an affair, and that it was far more likely you would rather detach yourself from us altogether, than have him added to the rest of us
That was a mistake, dear Lavvy
It turns out to be
but circumstances have changed, you know, my dear. George is in a new situation, and his prospects are very good indeed. I shouldn't have had the courage to tell you so yesterday, when you would have thought his prospects poor, and not worth notice; but I feel quite bold tonight
I didn't say that I ever felt timid, Bella
But perhaps I might have said, if I had not been restrained by delicacy towards a sister's feelings, that I have for some time felt independent; too independent, my dear, to subject myself to have my intended match (you'll prick yourself again, George) looked down upon. It is not that I could have blamed you for looking down upon it, when you were looking up to a rich and great match, Bella; it is only that I was independent
Ma, pray don't sit staring at me in that intensely aggravating manner! If you see a black on my nose, tell me so; if you don't, leave me alone
Do you address Me in those words
Do you presume
Don't talk about presuming, Ma, for goodness' sake. A girl who is old enough to be engaged, is quite old enough to object to be stared at as if she was a Clock
Audacious one
Your grandmamma, if so addressed by one of her daughters, at any age, would have insisted on her retiring to a dark apartment
My grandmamma
wouldn't have sat staring people out of countenance, I think
She would
Then it's a pity she didn't know better
And if my grandmamma wasn't in her dotage when she took to insisting on people's retiring to dark apartments, she ought to have been. A pretty exhibition my grandmamma must have made of herself! I wonder whether she ever insisted on people's retiring into the ball of St Paul's; and if she did, how she got them there
Silence
I command silence
I have not the slightest intention of being silent, Ma
but quite the contrary. I am not going to be eyed as if I had come from the Boffins, and sit silent under it. I am not going to have George Sampson eyed as if HE had come from the Boffins, and sit silent under it. If Pa thinks proper to be eyed as if HE had come from the Boffins also, well and good. I don't choose to. And I won't
You rebellious spirit! You mutinous child! Tell me this, Lavinia. If in violation of your mother's sentiments, you had condescended to allow yourself to be patronized by the Boffins, and if you had come from those halls of slavery
That's mere nonsense, Ma
How
Halls of slavery, Ma, is mere stuff and nonsense
I say, presumptuous child, if you had come from the neighbourhood of Portland Place, bending under the yoke of patronage and attended by its domestics in glittering garb to visit me, do you think my deep-seated feelings could have been expressed in looks
All I think about it, is
that I should wish them expressed to the right person
And if
if making light of my warnings that the face of Mrs Boffin alone was a face teeming with evil, you had clung to Mrs Boffin instead of to me, and had after all come home rejected by Mrs Boffin, trampled under foot by Mrs Boffin, and cast out by Mrs Boffin, do you think my feelings could have been expressed in looks
Good night, dear Ma. I have had a tiring day, and I'll go to bed
My dear, you most unquestionably ARE a lovely woman
Look here, sir
when your lovely woman marries, you shall have that piece if you like, and she'll make you a chain of it. Would you prize that remembrance of the dear creature
Yes, my precious
Then you shall have it if you're good, sir. I am very, very sorry, dearest Pa, to have brought home all this trouble
My pet
don't make yourself uneasy about that. It really is not worth mentioning, because things at home would have taken pretty much the same turn any way. If your mother and sister don't find one subject to get at times a little wearing on, they find another. We're never out of a wearing subject, my dear, I assure you. I am afraid you find your old room with Lavvy, dreadfully inconvenient, Bella
No I don't, Pa; I don't mind. Why don't I mind, do you think, Pa
Well, my child, you used to complain of it when it wasn't such a contrast as it must be now. Upon my word, I can only answer, because you are so much improved
No, Pa. Because I am so thankful and so happy
Listen, sir
Your lovely woman was told her fortune to night on her way home. It won't be a large fortune, because if the lovely woman's Intended gets a certain appointment that he hopes to get soon, she will marry on a hundred and fifty pounds a year. But that's at first, and even if it should never be more, the lovely woman will make it quite enough. But that's not all, sir. In the fortune there's a certain fair man -- a little man, the fortune-teller said -- who, it seems, will always find himself near the lovely woman, and will always have kept, expressly for him, such a peaceful corner in the lovely woman's little house as never was. Tell me the name of that man, sir
Is he a Knave in the pack of cards
Yes
I see land at last
There's a dear Knave of Wilfers
That's the mark, sir. Come to the mark. Put your boot against it. We keep to it together, mind! Now, sir, you may kiss the lovely woman before she runs away, so thankful and so happy. O yes, fair little man, so thankful and so happy
by auction, under a bill of sale
I don't display camels myself, I am above them: I am a more solid man; but these camels have basked in the light of my countenance, and how dare you, sir, insinuate to me that I have irradiated any but unimpeachable camels
will be found highly salutary as a precautionary measure in connection with the pleasures of the table
A lady
Ask the favour of the lady's name
Show the lady in
Pray take a seat, Mrs Lammle
I have no doubt, Mr Twemlow, that you have heard of a reverse of fortune having befallen us. Of course you have heard of it, for no kind of news travels so fast -- among one's friends especially
Probably it will not
have surprised you so much as some others, after what passed between us at the house which is now turned out at windows. I have taken the liberty of calling upon you, Mr Twemlow, to add a sort of postscript to what I said that day
Really
really, Mrs Lammle, I should take it as a favour if you could excuse me from any further confidence. It has ever been one of the objects of my life -- which, unfortunately, has not had many objects -- to be inoffensive, and to keep out of cabals and interferences
My postscript -- to retain the term I have used
coincides exactly with what you say, Mr Twemlow. So far from troubling you with any new confidence, I merely wish to remind you what the old one was. So far from asking you for interference, I merely wish to claim your strict neutrality
I can, I suppose
offer no reasonable objection to hearing anything that you do me the honour to wish to say to me under those heads. But if I may, with all possible delicacy and politeness, entreat you not to range beyond them, I -- I beg to do so
Sir
I imparted to you a certain piece of knowledge, to be imparted again, as you thought best, to a certain person
Which I did
And for doing which, I thank you; though, indeed, I scarcely know why I turned traitress to my husband in the matter, for the girl is a poor little fool. I was a poor little fool once myself; I can find no better reason
Mr Twemlow, if you should chance to see my husband, or to see me, or to see both of us, in the favour or confidence of any one else -- whether of our common acquaintance or not, is of no consequence -- you have no right to use against us the knowledge I intrusted you with, for one special purpose which has been accomplished. This is what I came to say. It is not a stipulation; to a gentleman it is simply a reminder
It is so plain a case
as between me (from the first relying on your honour) and you, that I will not waste another word upon it
Yes, I think you have a right to rely upon me
I trust I have kept the promise I made through your servant, that I would detain you a very few minutes. I need trouble you no longer, Mr Twemlow
Stay
Pardon me a moment. I should never have sought you out, madam, to say what I am going to say, but since you have sought me out and are here, I will throw it off my mind. Was it quite consistent, in candour, with our taking that resolution against Mr Fledgeby, that you should afterwards address Mr Fledgeby as your dear and confidential friend, and entreat a favour of Mr Fledgeby? Always supposing that you did; I assert no knowledge of my own on the subject; it has been represented to me that you did
Then he told you
Yes
It is strange that he should have told you the truth
Pray where did a circumstance so very extraordinary happen
May I ask where it happened, Mr Twemlow? In strict confidence
I must confess
Otherwise
Was Mr Fledgeby's advocacy as effectual in your case as in ours
As ineffectual
Can you make up your mind to tell me where you saw Mr Fledgeby, Mr Twemlow
I beg your pardon. I fully intended to have done so. The reservation was not intentional. I encountered Mr Fledgeby, quite by accident, on the spot.-- By the expression, on the spot, I mean at Mr Riah's in Saint Mary Axe
Have you the misfortune to be in Mr Riah's hands then
Unfortunately, madam
the one money obligation to which I stand committed, the one debt of my life (but it is a just debt; pray observe that I don't dispute it), has fallen into Mr Riah's hands
Mr Twemlow
it has fallen into Mr Fledgeby's hands. Mr Riah is his mask. It has fallen into Mr Fledgeby's hands. Let me tell you that, for your guidance. The information may be of use to you, if only to prevent your credulity, in judging another man's truthfulness by your own, from being imposed upon
Impossible
How do you know it
I scarcely know how I know it. The whole train of circumstances seemed to take fire at once, and show it to me
Oh! Then you have no proof
It is very strange
how like men are to one another in some things, though their characters are as different as can be! No two men can have less affinity between them, one would say, than Mr Twemlow and my husband. Yet my husband replies to me "You have no proof," and Mr Twemlow replies to me with the very same words
But why, madam
Consider why the very same words? Because they state the fact. Because you HAVE no proof
Men are very wise in their way
but they have wisdom to learn. My husband, who is not over-confiding, ingenuous, or inexperienced, sees this plain thing no more than Mr Twemlow does -- because there is no proof! Yet I believe five women out of six, in my place, would see it as clearly as I do. However, I will never rest (if only in remembrance of Mr Fledgeby's having kissed my hand) until my husband does see it. And you will do well for yourself to see it from this time forth, Mr Twemlow, though I CAN give you no proof
I don't know
it depends. There may be an opening for him dawning now, or there may be none. We shall soon find out. If none, we are bankrupt here, and must go abroad, I suppose
Yes
Restraining influence, Mr Twemlow? We must eat and drink, and dress, and have a roof over our heads. Always beside him and attached in all his fortunes? Not much to boast of in that; what can a woman at my age do? My husband and I deceived one another when we married; we must bear the consequences of the deception -- that is to say, bear one another, and bear the burden of scheming together for to-day's dinner and to-morrow's breakfast -- till death divorces us
I took
a cab this morning, and I rattled off to that Sale
So did I
And what was it like
I assure you
I assure you, the things were going for a song. Handsome things enough, but fetching nothing
So I heard this afternoon
But how
CAN people do that
How
how a mother can look at her baby, and know that she lives beyond her husband's means, I cannot imagine
True
but the principle is the same
But I don't understand
if these people spoken of, occupied the position of being in society -- they were in society
Then I don't understand
how even their living beyond their means could bring them to what has been termed a total smash. Because, there is always such a thing as an adjustment of affairs, in the case of people of any standing at all
Suppose you have no means and live beyond them
Gaming table
Speculated without knowing that speculation is a science
Horses
Two establishments
Don't ask me. I desire to take no part in the discussion of these people's affairs. I abhor the subject. It is an odious subject, an offensive subject, a subject that makes me sick, and I
The Lord Chancellor has resigned
Young Blight
Waiting
Waiting
Excuse me
You told me to bring him, sir, to wherever you was, if he come while you was out and I was in
and I've brought him
Sharp boy. Where is he
He's in a cab, sir, at the door. I thought it best not to show him, you see, if it could be helped; for he's a-shaking all over, like -- Blight's simile is perhaps inspired by the surrounding dishes of sweets --'like Glue Monge
Sharp boy again
I'll go to him
Now Dolls, wake up
Mist Wrayburn? Drection! Fifteen shillings
Give him a ride back to Charing Cross, sharp boy, and there get rid of him
I am dying to ask him what he was called out for
Are you
then perhaps if you can't ask him, you'll die. So I'll be a benefactor to society, and go. A stroll and a cigar, and I can think this over. Think this over
Lock, ho! Lock
T'other governor
Ay, ay? It's you, is it, honest friend
You got the place, then
I got the place, and no thanks to you for it, nor yet none to Lawyer Lightwood
We saved our recommendation, honest fellow
for the next candidate -- the one who will offer himself when you are transported or hanged. Don't be long about it; will you be so good
Hi -- I -- i! Lock, ho! Lock! Plashwater Weir Mill Lock
Plashwater Weir Mill Lock, T'otherest gov -- er -- nor -- or -- or -- or
Wish I may die
if you ain't ha' been a imitating me, T'otherest governor! Never thought myself so good-looking afore
THIS your Lock
they told me, where I last inquired, it was the third I should come to. This is only the second
It's my belief, governor
that you've dropped one in your counting. It ain't Locks as YOU'VE been giving your mind to. No, no
It ain't Locks as YOU'VE been a reckoning up
No, no
What other calculations do you suppose I have been occupied with? Mathematics
I never heerd it called that. It's a long word for it. Hows'ever, p'raps you call it so
It. What
I'll say them, instead of it, if you like
It's safer talk too
What do you mean that I should understand by them
Spites, affronts, offences giv' and took, deadly aggrawations, such like
Ha ha! Don't be afeerd, T'otherest
The T'other's got to make way agin the stream, and he takes it easy. You can soon come up with him. But wot's the good of saying that to you! YOU know how fur you could have outwalked him betwixt anywheres about where he lost the tide -- say Richmond -- and this, if you had a mind to it
You think I have been following him
I KNOW you have
Well! I have, I have
But
he may land
Easy you! He won't be lost if he does land
He must leave his boat behind him. He can't make a bundle or a parcel on it, and carry it ashore with him under his arm
He was speaking to you just now
What did he say
Cheek
What
Cheek
cheek is what he said. He can't say nothing but cheek. I'd ha' liked to plump down aboard of him, neck and crop, with a heavy jump, and sunk him
Damn him
Hooroar
Does you credit! Hooroar! I cry chorus to the T'otherest
What turn
did his insolence take to-day
It took the turn
of hoping as I was getting ready to be hanged
Let him look to that
Let him look to that! It will be bad for him when men he has injured, and at whom he has jeered, are thinking of getting hanged. Let HIM get ready for HIS fate, when that comes about. There was more meaning in what he said than he knew of, or he wouldn't have had brains enough to say it. Let him look to it; let him look to it! When men he has wronged, and on whom he has bestowed his insolence, are getting ready to be hanged, there is a death-bell ringing. And not for them
Oh
Then, I make out, T'otherest, as he is a-going to her
He left London
yesterday. I have hardly a doubt, this time, that at last he is going to her
You ain't sure, then
I am as sure here
as if it was written there
Ah! But judging from the looks on you
you've made ekally sure afore, and have got disapinted. It has told upon you
Listen
These are my holidays
Are they, by George
uns, if these is your holidays
And I have never left him
since they began. And I never will leave him now, till I have seen him with her
And when you have seen him with her
I'll come back to you
I have a pound for you
You've two
Now, I must follow him
He takes this river-road -- the fool!-- to confuse observation, or divert attention, if not solely to baffle me. But he must have the power of making himself invisible before he can shake Me off
If you don't get disapinted agin, T'otherest, maybe you'll put up at the Lock-house when you come back
I will
Why did he copy my clothes? He could have looked like what he wanted to look like, without that
Now
if arter he sees me in this neckhankecher, I see him in a sim'lar neckhankecher, it won't be accident
Lock ho! Lock
Halloa
Back a' ready, T'otherest
He has put up for the night, at an Angler's Inn
He goes on, up the river, at six in the morning. I have come back for a couple of hours' rest
You want 'em
I don't want them
because I would rather not have them, but would much prefer to follow him all night. However, if he won't lead, I can't follow. I have been waiting about, until I could discover, for a certainty, at what time he starts; if I couldn't have made sure of it, I should have stayed there.-- This would be a bad pit for a man to be flung into with his hands tied. These slippery smooth walls would give him no chance. And I suppose those gates would suck him down
Suck him down, or swaller him up, he wouldn't get out
Not even, if his hands warn't tied, he wouldn't. Shut him in at both ends, and I'd give him a pint o' old ale ever to come up to me standing here
You run about the brink, and run across it, in this uncertain light, on a few inches width of rotten wood
I wonder you have no thought of being drowned
I can't be
You can't be drowned
No
it's well known. I've been brought out o' drowning, and I can't be drowned. I wouldn't have that there busted B'lowbridger aware on it, or her people might make it tell agin' the damages I mean to get. But it's well known to water-side characters like myself, that him as has been brought out o drowning, can never be drowned
You seem to like it
Didn't you say
as you had come back for a couple o' hours' rest
Eh? Yes
Hadn't you better come in and take your couple o' hours' rest
Thank you. Yes
There, T'otherest
You'd better take a bite and a sup, afore you takes your snooze
Oh
You're a-taking notice, are you? Come! You shall have a good squint at it then
When you're ready for your snooze
chuck yourself on my bed in the corner, T'otherest. It'll be broad day afore three. I'll call you early
I shall require no calling
Though I'm blest
if I think there's water enough in all the Thames to do THAT for you
Lock ho! Lock
Lock ho! Lock
You've seen him with her
I have
Where
At his journey's end. His boat's hauled up for three days. I heard him give the order. Then, I saw him wait for her and meet her. I saw them
I saw them walking side by side, last night
What did you do
Nothing
What are you going to do
How does that happen
I don't know. I can't keep it back. It has happened twice -- three times -- four times -- I don't know how many times -- since last night. I taste it, smell it, see it, it chokes me, and then it breaks out like this
Your face is like a ghost's
Did you ever see a ghost
I mean to say, you're quite wore out
That may well be. I have had no rest since I left here. I don't remember that I have so much as sat down since I left here
Lie down now, then
I will, if you'll give me something to quench my thirst first
You asked me something
No, I didn't
I tell you
Oh! Then
I asked you wot you wos a-going to do
How can a man in this state know
How can I plan anything, if I haven't sleep
Why, that's what I as good as said
Didn't I say lie down
Well, perhaps you did
Well! Anyways I says it again. Sleep where you slept last; the sounder and longer you can sleep, the better you'll know arterwards what you're up to
He sleeps sound
yet he's that up to me and that noticing of me that my getting out of my chair may wake him, when a rattling peal won't; let alone my touching of him
T'otherest
are you a lying easy? There's a chill in the air, governor. Shall I put a coat over you
That's about what it is a'ready, you see
a coat over you, a coat over you
Poor man
this here coat of his must make him uneasy in his sleep. Shall I loosen it for him, and make him more comfortable? Ah! I think I ought to do it, poor man. I think I will
My dear Mrs Boffin
it imparts new life to me, to see my Alfred in confidential communication with Mr Boffin. The two were formed to become intimate. So much simplicity combined with so much force of character, such natural sagacity united to such amiability and gentleness -- these are the distinguishing characteristics of both
My Sophronia
your too partial estimate of your husband's character
No! Not too partial, Alfred
never say that
My child, your favourable opinion, then, of your husband -- you don't object to that phrase, darling
How can I, Alfred
Your favourable opinion then, my Precious, does less than justice to Mr Boffin, and more than justice to me
To the first charge, Alfred, I plead guilty. But to the second, oh no, no
Less than justice to Mr Boffin, Sophronia
because it represents Mr Boffin as on my lower level; more than justice to me, Sophronia, because it represents me as on Mr Boffin's higher level. Mr Boffin bears and forbears far more than I could
Far more than you could for yourself, Alfred
My love, that is not the question
Not the question, Lawyer
No, dear Sophronia. From my lower level, I regard Mr Boffin as too generous, as possessed of too much clemency, as being too good to persons who are unworthy of him and ungrateful to him. To those noble qualities I can lay no claim. On the contrary, they rouse my indignation when I see them in action
Alfred
They rouse my indignation, my dear, against the unworthy persons, and give me a combative desire to stand between Mr Boffin and all such persons. Why? Because, in my lower nature I am more worldly and less delicate. Not being so magnanimous as Mr Boffin, I feel his injuries more than he does himself, and feel more capable of opposing his injurers
But is not my husband saying in effect
that he becomes unmindful of his own temporary misfortunes in his admiration of another whom he is burning to serve? And is not that making an admission that his nature is a generous one? I am wretched in argument, but surely this is so, dear Mr and Mrs Boffin
Do I notice anything wrong here
Sophronia, darling, Mr and Mrs Boffin will remind you of the old adage, that self-praise is no recommendation
Self-praise, Alfred? Do you mean because we are one and the same
No, my dear child. I mean that you cannot fail to remember, if you reflect for a single moment, that what you are pleased to compliment me upon feeling in the case of Mr Boffin, you have yourself confided to me as your own feeling in the case of Mrs Boffin
I shall be beaten by this Lawyer
I am afraid I must admit it, if he presses me, for it's damagingly true
Do you admit the charge, Sophronia
Really, I think
I must throw myself on the protection of the Court. Am I bound to answer that question, my Lord
You needn't, if you don't like, ma'am
It's not of the least consequence
Try 'em again
To protect myself against the suspicion of covert self-laudation, my dear Mrs Boffin
I must tell you how it was
No. Pray don't
The Court objects
Ma'am
the Court (if I am the Court) does object. The Court objects for two reasons. First, because the Court don't think it fair. Secondly, because the dear old lady, Mrs Court (if I am Mr) gets distressed by it
What does the Court not consider fair
Letting you go on
It's not above-board and it's not fair. When the old lady is uncomfortable, there's sure to be good reason for it. I see she is uncomfortable, and I plainly see this is the good reason wherefore. HAVE you breakfasted, ma'am
Have YOU breakfasted, sir
Thank you
If Mrs Boffin will oblige me, I'll take another cup of tea
A thousand thanks
I have breakfasted
Now, which
which of you two is Cashier
Sophronia, my dear
it shall be your department
I would rather
that it was your husband's, ma'am, because -- but never mind, because. I would rather have to do with him. However, what I have to say, I will say with as little offence as possible; if I can say it without any, I shall be heartily glad. You two have done me a service, a very great service, in doing what you did (my old lady knows what it was), and I have put into this envelope a bank note for a hundred pound. I consider the service well worth a hundred pound, and I am well pleased to pay the money. Would you do me the favour to take it, and likewise to accept my thanks
It is not impossible
that you have had some general idea, sir, of replacing Rokesmith, in course of time
It is not
not impossible
And perhaps, ma'am
you have been so kind as to take up my old lady in your own mind, and to do her the honour of turning the question over whether you mightn't one of these days have her in charge, like? Whether you mightn't be a sort of Miss Bella Wilfer to her, and something more
I should hope
that if I were anything to your wife, sir, I could hardly fail to be something more than Miss Bella Wilfer, as you call her
What do YOU call her, ma'am
Again I think I may say, that's not impossible. Is it, sir
It is not
not impossible
Now
it won't do. I don't wish to say a single word that might be afrerwards remembered as unpleasant; but it won't do
Sophronia, my love
you hear? It won't do
No
it really won't. You positively must excuse us. If you'll go your way, we'll go ours, and so I hope this affair ends to the satisfaction of all parties
The best thing we can make of the affair
is a matter of business, and as a matter of business it's brought to a conclusion. You have done me a great service, a very great service, and I have paid for it. Is there any objection to the price
Very good
We hope (my old lady and me) that you'll give us credit for taking the plainest and honestest short-cut that could be taken under the circumstances. We have talked it over with a deal of care (my old lady and me), and we have felt that at all to lead you on, or even at all to let you go on of your own selves, wouldn't be the right thing. So, I have openly given you to understand that --' Mr Boffin sought for a new turn of speech, but could find none so expressive as his former one, repeated in a confidential tone
wishing you well in the way you go, we now conclude with the observation that perhaps you'll go it
Oh, my dear Sophronia
to think that you and Alfred should be ruined! Oh, my poor dear Sophronia, to think that you should have had a Sale at your house after all your kindness to me! Oh, Mr and Mrs Boffin, pray forgive me for this intrusion, but you don't know how fond I was of Sophronia when Pa wouldn't let me go there any more, or what I have felt for Sophronia since I heard from Ma of her having been brought low in the world. You don't, you can't, you never can, think, how I have lain awake at night and cried for my good Sophronia, my first and only friend
I haven't a minute
to stay. I am out shopping early with Ma, and I said I had a headache and got Ma to leave me outside in the phaeton, in Piccadilly, and ran round to Sackville Street, and heard that Sophronia was here, and then Ma came to see, oh such a dreadful old stony woman from the country in a turban in Portland Place, and I said I wouldn't go up with Ma but would drive round and leave cards for the Boffins, which is taking a liberty with the name; but oh my goodness I am distracted, and the phaeton's at the door, and what would Pa say if he knew it
Don't ye be timid, my dear
You came in to see us
Oh, no, I didn't
It's very impolite, I know, but I came to see my poor Sophronia, my only friend. Oh! how I felt the separation, my dear Sophronia, before I knew you were brought low in the world, and how much more I feel it now
But I've come on business
and if I don't despatch it I shall have come for nothing, and oh good gracious! what would Pa say if he knew of Sackville Street, and what would Ma say if she was kept waiting on the doorsteps of that dreadful turban, and there never were such pawing horses as ours unsettling my mind every moment more and more when I want more mind than I have got, by pawing up Mr Boffin's street where they have no business to be. Oh! where is, where is it? Oh! I can't find it
What do you miss, my dear
Oh! it's little enough
because Ma always treats me as if I was in the nursery (I am sure I wish I was!), but I hardly ever spend it and it has mounted up to fifteen pounds, Sophronia, and I hope three five-pound notes are better than nothing, though so little, so little! And now I have found that -- oh, my goodness! there's the other gone next! Oh no, it isn't, here it is
Ma says chits and jewels have no business together
and that's the reason why I have no trinkets except this, but I suppose my aunt Hawkinson was of a different opinion, because she left me this, though I used to think she might just as well have buried it, for it's always kept in jewellers' cotton. However, here it is, I am thankful to say, and of use at last, and you'll sell it, dear Sophronia, and buy things with it
Give it to me
I'll see that it's properly disposed of
Oh! are you such a friend of Sophronia's, Mr Boffin
Oh, how good of you! Oh, my gracious! there was something else, and it's gone out of my head! Oh no, it isn't, I remember what it was. My grandmamma's property, that'll come to me when I am of age, Mr Boffin, will be all my own, and neither Pa nor Ma nor anybody else will have any control over it, and what I wish to do it so make some of it over somehow to Sophronia and Alfred, by signing something somewhere that'll prevail on somebody to advance them something. I want them to have something handsome to bring them up in the world again. Oh, my goodness me! Being such a friend of my dear Sophronia's, you won't refuse me, will you
No, no
it shall be seen to
Oh, thank you, thank you
If my maid had a little note and half a crown, I could run round to the pastrycook's to sign something, or I could sign something in the Square if somebody would come and cough for me to let 'em in with the key, and would bring a pen and ink with 'em and a bit of blotting-paper. Oh, my gracious! I must tear myself away, or Pa and Ma will both find out! Dear, dear Sophronia, good, good-bye
Good-bye, dear Mr Lammle -- I mean Alfred. You won't think after to-day that I have deserted you and Sophronia because you have been brought low in the world, will you? Oh me! oh me! I have been crying my eyes out of my head, and Ma will he sure to ask me what's the matter. Oh, take me down, somebody, please, please, please
I'll take care
that these are soon given back
You will not undeceive her I hope, Mr Boffin
No
I mean, as to the worth and value of her friend
No
I may try to give a hint at her home that she is in want of kind and careful protection, but I shall say no more than that to her parents, and I shall say nothing to the young lady herself
Mr and Mrs Boffin
there are not many people, I think, who, under the circumstances, would have been so considerate and sparing as you have been to me just now. Do you care to be thanked
Thanks are always worth having
Then thank you both
Sophronia
are you sentimental
Well, well, my good sir
it's a very good thing to think well of another person, and it's a very good thing to be thought well of BY another person. Mrs Lammle will be none the worse for it, if she is
Much obliged. But I asked Mrs Lammle if she was
Because
I am disposed to be sentimental myself, on your appropriation of the jewels and the money, Mr Boffin. As our little Georgiana said, three five-pound notes are better than nothing, and if you sell a necklace you can buy things with the produce
IF you sell it
Why, confound the woman
You have had no former cause of complaint on the sentimental score, Alfred, and you will have none in future. It is not worth your noticing. We go abroad soon, with the money we have earned here
You know we do; you know we must
There is no fear of my taking any sentiment with me. I should soon be eased of it, if I did. But it will be all left behind. It IS all left behind. Are you ready, Alfred
What the deuce have I been waiting for but you, Sophronia
Let us go then. I am sorry I have delayed our dignified departure
You don't mean it
It wants five minutes, good, to Venus's appointment
I'm rather early
Thank'ee, Venus
Thank'ee, thank'ee, thank'ee
All right, Venus, all right. Now, that you've been to see me, and have consented to keep up the appearance before Wegg of remaining in it for a time, I have got a sort of a backer. All right, Venus. Thank'ee, Venus. Thank'ee, thank'ee, thank'ee
Do you think Wegg is likely to drop down upon me to-night, Venus
I think he is, sir
Have you any particular reason for thinking so, Venus
Well, sir
the fact is, he has given me another look-in, to make sure of what he calls our stock-in-trade being correct, and he has mentioned his intention that he was not to be put off beginning with you the very next time you should come. And this
being the very next time, you know, sir
Why, therefore you suppose he'll turn to at the grindstone, eh, Wegg
Just so, sir
He's a terrible fellow, Venus; he's an awful fellow. I don't know how ever I shall go through with it. You must stand by me, Venus like a good man and true. You'll do all you can to stand by me, Venus; won't you
Mr Boffin, sir
You're quite a stranger
Yes. I've been otherwise occupied, Wegg
Have you indeed, sir
Hah! I've been looking for you, sir, rather what I may call specially
You don't say so, Wegg
Yes, I do say so, sir. And if you hadn't come round to me tonight, dash my wig if I wouldn't have come round to you tomorrow. Now! I tell you
Nothing wrong, I hope, Wegg
Oh no, Mr Boffin
Nothing wrong! What should be wrong in Boffinses Bower! Step in, sir
If you'll come to the Bower I've shaded for you, Your bed shan't be roses all spangled with doo: Will you, will you, will you, will you, come to the Bower? Oh, won't you, won't you, won't you, won't you, come to the Bower
Look at the worm and minion; he's down in the mouth already
That's because I've told him. I've prepared the way for you
My friend and partner, Mr Venus, gives me to understand
that you are aware of our power over you. Now, when you have took your hat off, we'll go into that pint
First of all, I'm a-going to call you Boffin, for short
If you don't like it, it's open to you to lump it
I don't mind it, Wegg
That's lucky for you, Boffin. Now, do you want to be read to
I don't particularly care about it to-night, Wegg
Because if you did want to
you wouldn't be. I've been your slave long enough. I'm not to be trampled under-foot by a dustman any more. With the single exception of the salary, I renounce the whole and total sitiwation
Since you say it is to be so, Wegg
I suppose it must be
I suppose it must be
Next (to clear the ground before coming to business), you've placed in this yard a skulking, a sneaking, and a sniffing, menial
He hadn't a cold in his head when I sent him here
Boffin
I warn you not to attempt a joke with me
Anyhow, and every how
he has been planted here, and he is here. Now, I won't have him here. So I call upon Boffin, before I say another word, to fetch him in and send him packing to the right-about
I call upon Boffin
to inform that menial that I am Master here
Sloppy, my fine fellow, Mr Wegg is Master here. He doesn't want you, and you are to go from here
For good
For good
The atomspear
is now freer for the purposes of respiration. Mr Venus, sir, take a chair. Boffin, you may sit down
This gentleman
this gentleman, Boffin, is more milk and watery with you than I'll be. But he hasn't borne the Roman yoke as I have, nor yet he hasn't been required to pander to your depraved appetite for miserly characters
I never meant, my dear Wegg
Hold your tongue, Boffin! Answer when you're called upon to answer. You'll find you've got quite enough to do. Now, you're aware -- are you -- that you're in possession of property to which you've no right at all? Are you aware of that
Venus tells me so
I tell you so
Now, here's my hat, Boffin, and here's my walking-stick. Trifle with me, and instead of making a bargain with you, I'll put on my hat and take up my walking-stick, and go out, and make a bargain with the rightful owner. Now, what do you say
I say
that I am sure I don't want to trifle. Wegg. I have said so to Venus
You certainly have, sir
You're too milk and watery with our friend, you are indeed
I am willing, Wegg, to come to terms
Willing won't do, Boffin. I won't take willing. Are you desirous to come to terms? Do you ask to be allowed as a favour to come to terms
Yes
Yes what
I won't take yes. I'll have it out of you in full, Boffin
Dear me
I am so worrited! I ask to be allowed to come to terms, supposing your document is all correct
Don't you be afraid of that
You shall be satisfied by seeing it. Mr Venus will show it you, and I'll hold you the while. Then you want to know what the terms are. Is that about the sum and substance of it? Will you or won't you answer, Boffin
Dear me
I am worrited to that degree that I'm almost off my head. You hurry me so. Be so good as name the terms, Wegg
Now, mark, Boffin
Mark 'em well, because they're the lowest terms and the only terms. You'll throw your Mound (the little Mound as comes to you any way) into the general estate, and then you'll divide the whole property into three parts, and you'll keep one and hand over the others
Now, wait a bit, Boffin
there's something more. You've been a squandering this property -- laying some of it out on yourself. THAT won't do. You've bought a house. You'll be charged for it
I shall be ruined, Wegg
Now, wait a bit, Boffin; there's something more. You'll leave me in sole custody of these Mounds till they're all laid low. If any waluables should be found in 'em, I'll take care of such waluables. You'll produce your contract for the sale of the Mounds, that we may know to a penny what they're worth, and you'll make out likewise an exact list of all the other property. When the Mounds is cleared away to the last shovel-full, the final diwision will come off
Dreadful, dreadful, dreadful! I shall die in a workhouse
Now, wait a bit, Boffin; there's something more. You've been unlawfully ferreting about this yard. You've been seen in the act of ferreting about this yard. Two pair of eyes at the present moment brought to bear upon you, have seen you dig up a Dutch bottle
It was mine, Wegg
I put it there myself
What was in it, Boffin
Not gold, not silver, not bank notes, not jewels, nothing that you could turn into money, Wegg; upon my soul
Prepared, Mr Venus
for an ewasive answer on the part of our dusty friend here, I have hit out a little idea which I think will meet your views. We charge that bottle against our dusty friend at a thousand pound
Now, wait a bit, Boffin; there's something more. In your employment is an under-handed sneak, named Rokesmith. It won't answer to have HIM about, while this business of ours is about. He must be discharged
Rokesmith is already discharged
Already discharged, is he
Oh! Then, Boffin, I believe there's nothing more at present
Yes or no, and no half measures
I can't help myself
What's the good of my pretending to stand out, when I can't help myself? I must give in to the terms. But I should like to see the document
I suppose, Mr Wegg, we may now produce the paper
Hold on a minute, sir
hold on a minute. Will you obligingly shove that box -- which you mentioned on a former occasion as containing miscellanies -- towards me in the midst of the shop here
Very good
ve -- ry good. Will you hand me that chair, sir, to put a-top of it
Now, Boffin
mount up here and take your seat, will you
Now, Mr Venus
when I catches our friend here round the arms and body, and pins him tight to the back of the chair, you may show him what he wants to see. If you'll open it and hold it well up in one hand, sir, and a candle in the other, he can read it charming
Say when you've put it safe back, Mr Venus
for the strain of this is terrimenjious
Well, Boffin
Now, you know
Yes, Wegg
Now, I know
You have no doubts about it, Boffin
No, Wegg. No, Wegg. None
Then, take care, you
that you stick to your conditions. Mr Venus, if on this auspicious occasion, you should happen to have a drop of anything not quite so mild as tea in the 'ouse, I think I'd take the friendly liberty of asking you for a specimen of it
Will you mix it, Mr Wegg
I think not, sir. On so auspicious an occasion, I prefer to take it in the form of a Gum-Tickler
Bof -- fin
Yes, Wegg
I haven't mentioned one thing, because it's a detail that comes of course. You must be followed up, you know. You must be kept under inspection
I don't quite understand
Don't you
Where's your wits, Boffin? Till the Mounds is down and this business completed, you're accountable for all the property, recollect. Consider yourself accountable to me. Mr Venus here being too milk and watery with you, I am the boy for you
I've been a-thinking
that I must keep the knowledge from my old lady
The knowledge of the diwision, d'ye mean
Yes. If she was to die first of us two she might then think all her life, poor thing, that I had got the rest of the fortune still, and was saving it
I suspect, Boffin
that you've found out some account of some old chap, supposed to be a Miser, who got himself the credit of having much more money than he had. However, I don't mind
Don't you see, Wegg
don't you see? My old lady has got so used to the property. It would be such a hard surprise
I don't see it at all
You'll have as much as I shall. And who are you
But then, again
my old lady has very upright principles
Who's your old lady
to set herself up for having uprighter principles than mine
I think it must be kept from my old lady, Wegg
Well
keep it from your old lady. I ain't going to tell her. I can have you under close inspection without that. I'm as good a man as you, and better. Ask me to dinner. Give me the run of your 'ouse. I was good enough for you and your old lady once, when I helped you out with your weal and hammers. Was there no Miss Elizabeth, Master George, Aunt Jane, and Uncle Parker, before YOU two
Gently, Mr Wegg, gently
Milk and water-erily you mean, sir
Bof -- fin
Yes, Wegg
Come out. Show yourself again. Let's have another look at you
Go in. You may get to bed now
Bof -- fin
Yes, Wegg
Your breakfast is ready, sir
and all you have to do, is, to eat it up and drink it up, and escape. How do you feel, Pa
To the best of my judgement, like a housebreaker new to the business, my dear, who can't make himself quite comfortable till he is off the premises
How do YOU feel, my love
I feel as if the Fortune-teller was coming true, dear Pa, and the fair little man was turning out as was predicted
Ho! Only the fair little man
Now, look here, sir. If you keep well up to the mark this day, what do you think you deserve? What did I promise you should have, if you were good, upon a certain occasion
Upon my word I don't remember, Precious. Yes, I do, though. Wasn't it one of these beau -- tiful tresses
Wasn't it, too
Upon my word! Do you know, sir, that the Fortune-teller would give five thousand guineas (if it was quite convenient to him, which it isn't) for the lovely piece I have cut off for you? You can form no idea, sir, of the number of times he kissed quite a scrubby little piece -- in comparison -- that I cut off for HIM. And he wears it, too, round his neck, I can tell you! Near his heart
Ah! very near his heart! However, you have been a good, good boy, and you are the best of all the dearest boys that ever were, this morning, and here's the chain I have made of it, Pa, and you must let me put it round your neck with my own loving hands
Now, darling Pa, give me your hands that I may fold them together, and do you say after me:-- My little Bella
My little Bella
I am very fond of you
I am very fond of you, my darling
You mustn't say anything not dictated to you, sir. You daren't do it in your responses at Church, and you mustn't do it in your responses out of Church
I withdraw the darling
That's a pious boy! Now again:-- You were always
You were always
A vexatious
No you weren't
A vexatious (do you hear, sir?), a vexatious, capricious, thankless, troublesome, Animal; but I hope you'll do better in the time to come, and I bless you and forgive you
Dear Pa, if you knew how much I think this morning of what you told me once, about the first time of our seeing old Mr Harmon, when I stamped and screamed and beat you with my detestable little bonnet! I feel as if I had been stamping and screaming and beating you with my hateful little bonnet, ever since I was born, darling
Nonsense, my love. And as to your bonnets, they have always been nice bonnets, for they have always become you -- or you have become them; perhaps it was that -- at every age
Did I hurt you much, poor little Pa
when I beat you with my bonnet
No, my child. Wouldn't have hurt a fly
Ay, but I am afraid I shouldn't have beat you at all, unless I had meant to hurt you
Did I pinch your legs, Pa
Not much, my dear; but I think it's almost time I
Oh, yes
If I go on chattering, you'll be taken alive. Fly, Pa, fly
I am going for a walk, Lavvy
You don't think that can be your Ma; do you, my dear
Now, dearest Pa, you are safe, and will never be taken alive
This is what you must all come to, gentlemen, when we choose to bring you to book
Pa must taste everything, John dear, or it will never be lucky
Oh! How do you do again? What a dear old pensioner you are
You are a charming old pensioner
and I am so happy that I wish I could make you happy, too
Give me leave to kiss your hand, my Lovely, and it's done
I am well aware of it, my dear
and I resign you willingly
Willingly, sir? You ought to be brokenhearted
So I should be, my dear, if I thought that I was going to lose you
But you know you are not; don't you, poor dear Pa? You know that you have only made a new relation who will be as fond of you and as thankful to you -- for my sake and your own sake both -- as I am; don't you, dear little Pa? Look here, Pa
Now, we are a partnership of three, dear Pa
Pray excuse him, madam
he is a very young man on liking, and we DON'T like him
Bella, my love, this is so much more successful than any of our past anniversaries, that I think we must keep our future anniversaries here
Indeed, I think so, John, dear
I call upon you by your fealty to believe this
The period has now arrived at which we can dispense with the assistance of those fellows who are not in our confidence
I trust, madam
that you will have the kindness to overlook it, in consideration of its being the act of a very young man who is merely here on liking, and who will never answer
Disguise is of no use
they all find me out; I think it must be, Pa and John dear, because I look so happy
You remember how we talked about the ships that day, Pa
Yes, my dear
Isn't it strange, now, to think that there was no John in all the ships, Pa
Not at all, my dear
Oh, Pa! Not at all
No, my dear. How can we tell what coming people are aboard the ships that may be sailing to us now from the unknown seas
Though I positively cannot tear myself away
it would be a sin -- without drinking to many, many happy returns of this most happy day
Here! ten thousand times
I fill my glass and my precious wife's
Gentlemen
Gentlemen -- and Bella and John -- you will readily suppose that it is not my intention to trouble you with many observations on the present occasion. You will also at once infer the nature and even the terms of the toast I am about to propose on the present occasion. Gentlemen -- and Bella and John -- the present occasion is an occasion fraught with feelings that I cannot trust myself to express. But gentlemen -- and Bella and John -- for the part I have had in it, for the confidence you have placed in me, and for the affectionate good-nature and kindness with which you have determined not to find me in the way, when I am well aware that I cannot be otherwise than in it more or less, I do most heartily thank you. Gentlemen -- and Bella and John -- my love to you, and may we meet, as on the present occasion, on many future occasions; that is to say, gentlemen -- and Bella and John -- on many happy returns of the present happy occasion
Pa, dear
Yes, my darling
Did I beat you much with that horrid little bonnet, Pa
Nothing to speak of; my dear
Did I pinch your legs, Pa
Only nicely, my pet
You are sure you quite forgive me, Pa? Please, Pa, please, forgive me quite
What a silly little Mouse it is
But you do forgive me that, and everything else; don't you, Pa
Yes, my dearest
And you don't feel solitary or neglected, going away by yourself; do you, Pa
Lord bless you! No, my Life
Good-bye, dearest Pa. Good-bye
Good-bye, my darling! Take her away, my dear John. Take her home
You do not, R. W
inquire for your daughter Bella
To be sure, my dear
I did omit it. How -- or perhaps I should rather say where -- IS Bella
Not here
Oh, indeed, my dear
Not here
In a word, R. W., you have no daughter Bella
No daughter Bella, my dear
No. Your daughter Bella
your daughter Bella has bestowed herself upon a Mendicant
Good gracious, my dear
Show your father his daughter Bella's letter, Lavinia
I think your father will admit it to be documentary proof of what I tell him. I believe your father is acquainted with his daughter Bella's writing. But I do not know. He may tell you he is not. Nothing will surprise me
Posted at Greenwich, and dated this morning
Hopes Ma won't be angry, but is happily married to Mr John Rokesmith, and didn't mention it beforehand to avoid words, and please tell darling you, and love to me, and I should like to know what you'd have said if any other unmarried member of the family had done it
Dear me
You may well say Dear me
You said that before
It's very surprising. But I suppose, my dear
that we must make the best of it? Would you object to my pointing out, my dear, that Mr John Rokesmith is not (so far as I am acquainted with him), strictly speaking, a Mendicant
Indeed
Truly so? I was not aware that Mr John Rokesmith was a gentleman of landed property. But I am much relieved to hear it
I doubt if you HAVE heard it, my dear
Thank you
I make false statements, it appears? So be it. If my daughter flies in my face, surely my husband may. The one thing is not more unnatural than the other. There seems a fitness in the arrangement. By all means
Ma
I must say I think it would be much better if you would keep to the point, and not hold forth about people's flying into people's faces, which is nothing more nor less than impossible nonsense
How
Just im-possible nonsense, Ma
and George Sampson knows it is, as well as I do
The true point is
that Bella has behaved in a most unsisterly way to me, and might have severely compromised me with George and with George's family, by making off and getting married in this very low and disreputable manner -- with some pew-opener or other, I suppose, for a bridesmaid -- when she ought to have confided in me, and ought to have said, "If, Lavvy, you consider it due to your engagement with George, that you should countenance the occasion by being present, then Lavvy, I beg you to BE present, keeping my secret from Ma and Pa." As of course I should have done
As of course you would have done? Ingrate
Viper
I say! You know ma'am. Upon my honour you mustn't
With the highest respect for you, ma'am, upon my life you mustn't. No really, you know. When a man with the feelings of a gentleman finds himself engaged to a young lady, and it comes (even on the part of a member of the family) to vipers, you know!-- I would merely put it to your own good feeling, you know
My own unnatural mother
wants to annihilate George! But you shan't be annihilated, George. I'll die first
With every sentiment of respect for you, you know, ma'am -- vipers really doesn't do you credit
You shall not be annihilated, George
Ma shall destroy me first, and then she'll be contented. Oh, oh, oh! Have I lured George from his happy home to expose him to this! George, dear, be free! Leave me, ever dearest George, to Ma and to my fate. Give my love to your aunt, George dear, and implore her not to curse the viper that has crossed your path and blighted your existence. Oh, oh, oh
Demon -- with the highest respect for you -- behold your work
George dear, are you safe
George love, what has happened? Where is Ma
George dear, I am afraid I have been foolish; but I am still a little weak and giddy; don't let go my hand, George
George dear
after what has passed, I am sure Ma will tell Pa that he may tell Bella we shall all be glad to see her and her husband
Far be it from me
to run counter to the feelings of a child of mine, and of a Youth
who is the object of her maiden preference. I may feel -- nay, know -- that I have been deluded and deceived. I may feel -- nay, know -- that I have been set aside and passed over. I may feel -- nay, know -- that after having so far overcome my repugnance towards Mr and Mrs Boffin as to receive them under this roof, and to consent to your daughter Bella's
residing under theirs, it were well if your daughter Bella
had profited in a worldly point of view by a connection so distasteful, so disreputable. I may feel -- nay, know -- that in uniting herself to Mr Rokesmith she has united herself to one who is, in spite of shallow sophistry, a Mendicant. And I may feel well assured that your daughter Bella
does not exalt her family by becoming a Mendicant's bride. But I suppress what I feel, and say nothing of it
Therefore, R. W
let your daughter Bella come when she will, and she will be received. So
so will her husband
And I beg, Pa
that you will not tell Bella what I have undergone. It can do no good, and it might cause her to reproach herself
My dearest girl
she ought to know it
No, George
No, dearest George, let it be buried in oblivion
too noble
Nothing is too noble, dearest George
And Pa, I hope you will be careful not to refer before Bella, if you can help it, to my engagement to George. It might seem like reminding her of her having cast herself away. And I hope, Pa, that you will think it equally right to avoid mentioning George's rising prospects, when Bella is present. It might seem like taunting her with her own poor fortunes. Let me ever remember that I am her younger sister, and ever spare her painful contrasts, which could not but wound her sharply
No, dearest George, I am but too well aware that I am merely human
Can you think of your daughter Bella, and sleep
Yes, I think I can, my dear
Then
I would recommend you, if you have a human feeling, to retire to bed
Thank you, my dear
I think it IS the best place for me
Dearest Ma
how do you do, dearest Ma
And Lavvy darling, how do YOU do, and how's George Sampson, and how is he getting on, and when are you going to be married, and how rich are you going to grow? You must tell me all about it, Lavvy dear, immediately. John, love, kiss Ma and Lavvy, and then we shall all be at home and comfortable
Dearest Ma and Lavvy, you both take sugar, I know. And Pa (you good little Pa), you don't take milk. John does. I didn't before I was married; but I do now, because John does. John dear, did you kiss Ma and Lavvy? Oh, you did! Quite correct, John dear; but I didn't see you do it, so I asked. Cut some bread and butter, John; that's a love. Ma likes it doubled. And now you must tell me, dearest Ma and Lavvy, upon your words and honours! Didn't you for a moment -- just a moment -- think I was a dreadful little wretch when I wrote to say I had run away
I think it must have made you rather cross, dear Ma and Lavvy, and I know I deserved that you should be very cross. But you see I had been such a heedless, heartless creature, and had led you so to expect that I should marry for money, and so to make sure that I was incapable of marrying for love, that I thought you couldn't believe me. Because, you see, you didn't know how much of Good, Good, Good, I had learnt from John. Well! So I was sly about it, and ashamed of what you supposed me to be, and fearful that we couldn't understand one another and might come to words, which we should all be sorry for afterwards, and so I said to John that if he liked to take me without any fuss, he might. And as he did like, I let him. And we were married at Greenwich church in the presence of nobody -- except an unknown individual who dropped in
and half a pensioner. And now, isn't it nice, dearest Ma and Lavvy, to know that no words have been said which any of us can be sorry for, and that we are all the best of friends at the pleasantest of teas
And now you will naturally want to know, dearest Ma and Lavvy, how we live, and what we have got to live upon. Well! And so we live on Blackheath, in the charm -- ingest of dolls' houses, de -- lightfully furnished, and we have a clever little servant who is de -- cidedly pretty, and we are economical and orderly, and do everything by clockwork, and we have a hundred and fifty pounds a year, and we have all we want, and more. And lastly, if you would like to know in confidence, as perhaps you may, what is my opinion of my husband, my opinion is -- that I almost love him
And if you would like to know in confidence, as perhaps you may
my opinion of my wife, my opinion is
Stop, Sir! No, John, dear! Seriously! Please not yet a while! I want to be something so much worthier than the doll in the doll's house
My darling, are you not
Not half, not a quarter, so much worthier as I hope you may some day find me! Try me through some reverse, John -- try me through some trial -- and tell them after THAT, what you think of me
I will, my Life
I promise it
That's my dear John. And you won't speak a word now; will you
And I won't
speak a word now
I'll go further, Pa and Ma and Lavvy. John don't suspect it -- he has no idea of it -- but I quite love him
John dear, what's the matter
Matter, my love
Won't you tell me
what you are thinking of
There's not much in the thought, my soul. I was thinking whether you wouldn't like me to be rich
You rich, John
I mean, really rich. Say, as rich as Mr Boffin. You would like that
I should be almost afraid to try, John dear. Was he much the better for his wealth? Was I much the better for the little part I once had in it
But all people are not the worse for riches, my own
Most people
Nor even most people, it may be hoped. If you were rich, for instance, you would have a great power of doing good to others
Yes, sir, for instance
but should I exercise the power, for instance? And again, sir, for instance; should I, at the same time, have a great power of doing harm to myself
But still, again for instance; would you exercise that power
I don't know
I hope not. I think not. But it's so easy to hope not and think not, without the riches
Why don't you say, my darling -- instead of that phrase -- being poor
Why don't I say, being poor! Because I am not poor. Dear John, it's not possible that you suppose I think we are poor
I do, my love
Oh John
Understand me, sweetheart. I know that I am rich beyond all wealth in having you; but I think OF you, and think FOR you. In such a dress as you are wearing now, you first charmed me, and in no dress could you ever look, to my thinking, more graceful or more beautiful. But you have admired many finer dresses this very day; and is it not natural that I wish I could give them to you
It's very nice that you should wish it, John. It brings these tears of grateful pleasure into my eyes, to hear you say so with such tenderness. But I don't want them
Again
we are now walking through the muddy streets. I love those pretty feet so dearly, that I feel as if I could not bear the dirt to soil the sole of your shoe. Is it not natural that I wish you could ride in a carriage
It's very nice
to know that you admire them so much, John dear, and since you do, I am sorry that these shoes are a full size too large. But I don't want a carriage, believe me
You would like one if you could have one, Bella
I shouldn't like it for its own sake, half so well as such a wish for it. Dear John, your wishes are as real to me as the wishes in the Fairy story, that were all fulfilled as soon as spoken. Wish me everything that you can wish for the woman you dearly love, and I have as good as got it, John. I have better than got it, John
in a China house
Oh you ridiculous old thing, what do you mean by that? You must have been drinking
Take a salamander
Throw in a handful --' of something entirely unattainable. In these, the Housewife's most glaring moments of unreason, Bella would shut her up and knock her on the table, apostrophising her with the compliment, 'O you ARE a stupid old Donkey! Where am I to get it, do you think
It all comes of my love, John dear
And you have such a cheerful spirit
You are like a bright light in the house
Am I truly, John
Are you truly? Yes, indeed. Only much more, and much better
Do you know, John dear
that I sometimes, at odd moments -- don't laugh, John, please
That I sometimes think, John, I feel a little serious
Are you too much alone, my darling
O dear, no, John! The time is so short that I have not a moment too much in the week
Why serious, my life, then? When serious
When I laugh, I think
You wouldn't believe, sir, that I feel serious now? But I do
Would you like to be rich, pet
Rich, John! How CAN you ask such goose's questions
Do you regret anything, my love
Regret anything? No
Oh yes, I do though. I regret Mrs Boffin
I, too, regret that separation very much. But perhaps it is only temporary. Perhaps things may so fall out, as that you may sometimes see her again -- as that we may sometimes see her again
You are a very good little boy
to come unexpectedly, as soon as you could get out of school. And how have they used you at school to-day, you dear
Well, my pet
I attend two schools. There's the Mincing Lane establishment, and there's your mother's Academy. Which might you mean, my dear
Both
Both, eh? Why, to say the truth, both have taken a little out of me to-day, my dear, but that was to be expected. There's no royal road to learning; and what is life but learning
And what do you do with yourself when you have got your learning by heart, you silly child
Why then, my dear
I suppose I die
You are a very bad boy
to talk about dismal things and be out of spirits
My Bella
I am not out of spirits. I am as gay as a lark
Then if you are sure and certain it's not you, I suppose it must be I
so I won't do so any more. John dear, we must give this little fellow his supper, you know
Of course we must, my darling
He has been grubbing and grubbing at school
till he's not fit to be seen. O what a grubby child
Indeed, my dear
I was going to ask to be allowed to wash my hands, only you find me out so soon
Come here, sir
come here and be washed directly. You are not to be trusted to do it for yourself. Come here, sir
Now you must be brushed and combed, sir
Hold the light, John. Shut your eyes, sir, and let me take hold of your chin. Be good directly, and do as you are told
There
Now, you are something like a genteel boy! Put your jacket on, and come and have your supper
Stop a moment
we must keep his little clothes clean
You go a little way with Pa, John
Yes, my dear. Do you
I have not written to Lizzie Hexam since I wrote and told her that I really had a lover -- a whole one. I have often thought I would like to tell her how right she was when she pretended to read in the live coals that I would go through fire and water for him. I am in the humour to tell her so to-night, John, and I'll stay at home and do it
You are tired
Not at all tired, John dear, but in the humour to write to Lizzie. Good night, dear Pa. Good night, you dear, good, gentle Pa
You are just in time, sir
I am going to give you your first curtain lecture. It shall be a parlour-curtain lecture. You shall take this chair of mine when I have folded my letter, and I will take the stool (though you ought to take it, I can tell you, sir, if it's the stool of repentance), and you'll soon find yourself taken to task soundly
Now, sir! To begin at the beginning. What is your name
John Rokesmith, my dear
Good boy! Who gave you that name
My godfathers and my godmothers, dear love
Pretty good
Not goodest good, because you hesitate about it. However, as you know your Catechism fairly, so far, I'll let you off the rest. Now, I am going to examine you out of my own head. John dear, why did you go back, this evening, to the question you once asked me before -- would I like to be rich
In short, dear John
this is the topic of my lecture: I want nothing on earth, and I want you to believe it
If that's all, the lecture may be considered over, for I do
It's not all, John dear
It's only Firstly. There's a dreadful Secondly, and a dreadful Thirdly to come -- as I used to say to myself in sermon-time when I was a very small-sized sinner at church
Let them come, my dearest
Are you sure, John dear; are you absolutely certain in your innermost heart of hearts
Which is not in my keeping
No, John, but the key is.-- Are you absolutely certain that down at the bottom of that heart of hearts, which you have given to me as I have given mine to you, there is no remembrance that I was once very mercenary
Why, if there were no remembrance in me of the time you speak of
could I love you quite as well as I do; could I have in the Calendar of my life the brightest of its days; could I whenever I look at your dear face, or hear your dear voice, see and hear my noble champion? It can never have been that which made you serious, darling
No John, it wasn't that, and still less was it Mrs Boffin, though I love her. Wait a moment, and I'll go on with the lecture. Give me a moment, because I like to cry for joy. It's so delicious, John dear, to cry for joy
I think I am ready now for Thirdly, John
I am ready for Thirdly
whatever it is
I believe, John
that you believe that I believe
My dear child
what a quantity of believing
Isn't there
I never knew such a quantity! It's like verbs in an exercise. But I can't get on with less believing. I'll try again. I believe, dear John, that you believe that I believe that we have as much money as we require, and that we want for nothing
It is strictly true, Bella
But if our money should by any means be rendered not so much -- if we had to stint ourselves a little in purchases that we can afford to make now -- would you still have the same confidence in my being quite contented, John
Precisely the same confidence, my soul
Thank you, John dear, thousands upon thousands of times. And I may take it for granted, no doubt
that you would be quite as contented yourself John? But, yes, I know I may. For, knowing that I should be so, how surely I may know that you would be so; you who are so much stronger, and firmer, and more reasonable and more generous, than I am
Hush
I must not hear that. You are all wrong there, though otherwise as right as can be. And now I am brought to a little piece of news, my dearest, that I might have told you earlier in the evening. I have strong reason for confidently believing that we shall never be in the receipt of a smaller income than our present income
And now we have got to the bottom of it at last
and this is the thing that made you serious
No dear
it wasn't this
Why then, Lord bless this little wife of mine, there's a Fourthly
This worried me a little, and so did Secondly
but it was quite another sort of seriousness -- a much deeper and quieter sort of seriousness -- that I spoke of John dear
Do you remember, John, on the day we were married, Pa's speaking of the ships that might be sailing towards us from the unknown seas
Perfectly, my darling
I think...among them...there is a ship upon the ocean...bringing...to you and me...a little baby, John
It is very quiet
You are stupid enough, I suppose. But if you are clever enough to get through life tolerably to your satisfaction, you have got the better of me, Man as I am, and Mutton as you are
What's here to do
No jealous paper-miller? No pleasures of the chase in this part of the country? Mostly fishing hereabouts
A bird flying to the hedge
If I had not a reliance on her being truthful
I should begin to think she had given me the slip for the second time. But she promised, and she is a girl of her word
I was saying to myself, Lizzie, that you were sure to come, though you were late
I had to linger through the village as if I had no object before me, and I had to speak to several people in passing along, Mr Wrayburn
Are the lads of the village -- and the ladies -- such scandal-mongers
Will you walk beside me, Mr Wrayburn, and not touch me
Well, Lizzie, well
don't be unhappy, don't be reproachful
I cannot help being unhappy, but I do not mean to be reproachful. Mr Wrayburn, I implore you to go away from this neighbourhood, to-morrow morning
Lizzie, Lizzie, Lizzie
As well be reproachful as wholly unreasonable. I can't go away
Why not
Faith
Because you won't let me. Mind! I don't mean to be reproachful either. I don't complain that you design to keep me here. But you do it, you do it
Will you walk beside me, and not touch me
while I speak to you very seriously, Mr Wrayburn
I will do anything within the limits of possibility, for you, Lizzie
See here! Napoleon Buonaparte at St Helena
When you spoke to me as I came from the Mill the night before last
you told me that you were much surprised to see me, and that you were on a solitary fishing excursion. Was it true
It was not
in the least true. I came here, because I had information that I should find you here
Can you imagine why I left London, Mr Wrayburn
I am afraid, Lizzie
that you left London to get rid of me. It is not flattering to my self-love, but I am afraid you did
I did
How could you be so cruel
O Mr Wrayburn
is the cruelty on my side! O Mr Wrayburn, Mr Wrayburn, is there no cruelty in your being here to-night
In the name of all that's good -- and that is not conjuring you in my own name, for Heaven knows I am not good
don't be distressed
What else can I be, when I know the distance and the difference between us? What else can I be, when to tell me why you came here, is to put me to shame
Lizzie! I never thought before, that there was a woman in the world who could affect me so much by saying so little. But don't be hard in your construction of me. You don't know what my state of mind towards you is. You don't know how you haunt me and bewilder me. You don't know how the cursed carelessness that is over-officious in helping me at every other turning of my life, WON'T help me here. You have struck it dead, I think, and I sometimes almost wish you had struck me dead along with it
It grieves you to see me distressed, Mr Wrayburn; it grieves me to see you distressed. I don't reproach you. Indeed I don't reproach you. You have not felt this as I feel it, being so different from me, and beginning from another point of view. You have not thought. But I entreat you to think now, think now
What am I to think of
Think of me
Tell me how NOT to think of you, Lizzie, and you'll change me altogether
I don't mean in that way. Think of me, as belonging to another station, and quite cut off from you in honour. Remember that I have no protector near me, unless I have one in your noble heart. Respect my good name. If you feel towards me, in one particular, as you might if I was a lady, give me the full claims of a lady upon your generous behaviour. I am removed from you and your family by being a working girl. How true a gentleman to be as considerate of me as if I was removed by being a Queen
Have I injured you so much, Lizzie
No, no. You may set me quite right. I don't speak of the past, Mr Wrayburn, but of the present and the future. Are we not here now, because through two days you have followed me so closely where there are so many eyes to see you, that I consented to this appointment as an escape
Again, not very flattering to my self-love
but yes. Yes. Yes
Then I beseech you, Mr Wrayburn, I beg and pray you, leave this neighbourhood. If you do not, consider to what you will drive me
Drive you? To what shall I drive you, Lizzie
You will drive me away. I live here peacefully and respected, and I am well employed here. You will force me to quit this place as I quitted London, and -- by following me again -- will force me to quit the next place in which I may find refuge, as I quitted this
Are you so determined, Lizzie -- forgive the word I am going to use, for its literal truth -- to fly from a lover
I am so determined
to fly from such a lover. There was a poor woman died here but a little while ago, scores of years older than I am, whom I found by chance, lying on the wet earth. You may have heard some account of her
I think I have
if her name was Higden
Her name was Higden. Though she was so weak and old, she kept true to one purpose to the very last. Even at the very last, she made me promise that her purpose should be kept to, after she was dead, so settled was her determination. What she did, I can do. Mr Wrayburn, if I believed -- but I do not believe -- that you could be so cruel to me as to drive me from place to place to wear me out, you should drive me to death and not do it
Lizzie! Rest so a moment. Answer what I ask you. If I had not been what you call removed from you and cut off from you, would you have made this appeal to me to leave you
I don't know, I don't know. Don't ask me, Mr Wrayburn. Let me go back
I swear to you, Lizzie, you shall go directly. I swear to you, you shall go alone. I'll not accompany you, I'll not follow you, if you will reply
How can I, Mr Wrayburn? How can I tell you what I should have done, if you had not been what you are
If I had not been what you make me out to be
would you still have hated me
O Mr Wrayburn
you know me better than to think I do
If I had not been what you make me out to be, Lizzie, would you still have been indifferent to me
O Mr Wrayburn
you know me better than that too
If I know you better than quite to believe (unfortunate dog though I am!) that you hate me, or even that you are wholly indifferent to me, Lizzie, let me know so much more from yourself before we separate. Let me know how you would have dealt with me if you had regarded me as being what you would have considered on equal terms with you
It is impossible, Mr Wrayburn. How can I think of you as being on equal terms with me? If my mind could put you on equal terms with me, you could not be yourself. How could I remember, then, the night when I first saw you, and when I went out of the room because you looked at me so attentively? Or, the night that passed into the morning when you broke to me that my father was dead? Or, the nights when you used to come to see me at my next home? Or, your having known how uninstructed I was, and having caused me to be taught better? Or, my having so looked up to you and wondered at you, and at first thought you so good to be at all mindful of me
Only "at first" thought me so good, Lizzie? What did you think me after "at first"? So bad
I don't say that. I don't mean that. But after the first wonder and pleasure of being noticed by one so different from any one who had ever spoken to me, I began to feel that it might have been better if I had never seen you
Why
Because you WERE so different
Because it was so endless, so hopeless. Spare me
Did you think for me at all, Lizzie
Not much, Mr Wrayburn. Not much until to-night
Will you tell me why
I never supposed until to-night that you needed to be thought for. But if you do need to be; if you do truly feel at heart that you have indeed been towards me what you have called yourself to-night, and that there is nothing for us in this life but separation; then Heaven help you, and Heaven bless you
I promised that I would not accompany you, nor follow you. Shall I keep you in view? You have been agitated, and it's growing dark
I am used to be out alone at this hour, and I entreat you not to do so
I promise. I can bring myself to promise nothing more tonight, Lizzie, except that I will try what I can do
There is but one means, Mr Wrayburn, of sparing yourself and of sparing me, every way. Leave this neighbourhood to-morrow morning
I will try
Now, could Mortimer believe this
Can I even believe it myself
A most ridiculous position this, to be found out in
Yet I have gained a wonderful power over her, too, let her be as much in earnest as she will
And she loves me. And so earnest a character must be very earnest in that passion. She cannot choose for herself to be strong in this fancy, wavering in that, and weak in the other. She must go through with her nature, as I must go through with mine. If mine exacts its pains and penalties all round, so must hers, I suppose
Now, if I married her. If, outfacing the absurdity of the situation in correspondence with M. R. F., I astonished M. R. F. to the utmost extent of his respected powers, by informing him that I had married her, how would M. R. F. reason with the legal mind? "You wouldn't marry for some money and some station, because you were frightfully likely to become bored. Are you less frightfully likely to become bored, marrying for no money and no station? Are you sure of yourself?" Legal mind, in spite of forensic protestations, must secretly admit, "Good reasoning on the part of M. R. F. NOT sure of myself
And yet
I should like to see the fellow (Mortimer excepted) who would undertake to tell me that this was not a real sentiment on my part, won out of me by her beauty and her worth, in spite of myself, and that I would not be true to her. I should particularly like to see the fellow to-night who would tell me so, or who would tell me anything that could he construed to her disadvantage; for I am wearily out of sorts with one Wrayburn who cuts a sorry figure, and I would far rather be out of sorts with somebody else. "Eugene, Eugene, Eugene, this is a bad business." Ah! So go the Mortimer Lightwood bells, and they sound melancholy to-night
Where is the analogy, Brute Beast
between a woman whom your father coolly finds out for you and a woman whom you have found out for yourself, and have ever drifted after with more and more of constancy since you first set eyes upon her? Ass! Can you reason no better than that
Eugene, Eugene, Eugene, this is a bad business
I wish I could stop the Lightwood peal, for it sounds like a knell
Halloa, friend
are you blind
Out of the question to marry her
and out of the question to leave her. The crisis
if she had anything to forgive
Who brought him in
I brought him in, sir
You, my dear? You could not lift, far less carry, this weight
I think I could not, at another time, sir; but I am sure I did
Attend to the poor girl
She is quite unconscious. She sees nothing and hears nothing. All the better for her! Don't rouse her, if you can help it; only move her. Poor girl, poor girl! She must be amazingly strong of heart, but it is much to be feared that she has set her heart upon the dead. Be gentle with her
Is he afraid of me
Why, T'otherest, I thought you had been and got lost! Two nights away! I a'most believed as you'd giv' me the slip, and I had as good as half a mind for to advertise you in the newspapers to come for'ard
But not you, governor, not you
For what did I say to myself arter having amused myself with that there stretch of a comic idea, as a sort of a playful game? Why, I says to myself; "He's a man o' honour." That's what I says to myself. "He's a man o' double honour
You'll be for another forty on 'em, governor, as I judges, afore you turns your mind to breakfast
Yes. I had better sleep, I think
I myself should recommend it, governor
Might you be anyways dry
Yes. I should like a drink
One of his sleeves is tore right away below the elber, and the t'other's had a good rip at the shoulder. He's been hung on to, pretty tight, for his shirt's all tore out of the neck-gathers. He's been in the grass and he's been in the water. And he's spotted, and I know with what, and with whose. Hooroar
Not that I swaller it
as you've been a sleeping all the time, old boy
When are you relieved
Day arter to-morrow, governor
Not sooner
Not a inch sooner, governor
n -- n -- not a inch sooner, governor
Did I tell you I was going on to-night
No, governor
you did not tell me so. But most like you meant to it and forgot to it. How, otherways, could a doubt have come into your head about it, governor
As the sun goes down, I intend to go on
So much the more necessairy is a Peck
Come in and have it, T'otherest
Look out, T'otherest
you'll cut your hand
T'otherest
The news has gone down the river afore you
What news
Who do you think
picked up the body? Guess
I am not good at guessing anything
She did. Hooroar! You had him there agin. She did
I have been so long in want of rest
that with your leave I'll lie down again
And welcome, T'otherest
Whenever it may be necessary that you and I should have any further communication together
I will come back. Good-night
Well, since no better can be
Good-night
You wouldn't be let to go like that, if my Relief warn't as good as come. I'll catch you up in a mile
What are you up to
By George and the Draggin
if he ain't a going to bathe
But you wouldn't have fetched a bundle under your arm, from among that timber, if such was your game
For I shouldn't
have liked to lose you till I had made more money out of you neither
Aha
Much as you was dressed that night. I see. You're a taking me with you, now. You're deep. But I knows a deeper
Now
shall I foller you on, or shall I let you loose for this once, and go a fishing
If I was to let you loose this once
I could make you come to me agin, or I could find you out in one way or another. If I wasn't to go a fishing, others might.-- I'll let you loose this once, and go a fishing
Yes, Mary Anne
Young Mr Hexam, if you please, ma'am, coming to see Mr Headstone
Very good, Mary Anne
You may speak, Mary Anne
Mr Headstone has beckoned young Mr Hexam into his house, ma'am, and he has gone in himself without waiting for young Mr Hexam to come up, and now HE has gone in too, ma'am, and has shut the door
With all my heart, Mary Anne
What more, Mary Anne
They must find it rather dull and dark, Miss Peecher, for the parlour blind's down, and neither of them pulls it up
There is no accounting
there is no accounting for tastes, Mary Anne
Come in, Hexam, come in
Mr Headstone, what's the matter
Matter? Where
Mr Headstone, have you heard the news? This news about the fellow, Mr Eugene Wrayburn? That he is killed
He is dead, then
I heard of the outrage
but I had not heard the end of it
Where were you
when it was done? Stop! I don't ask that. Don't tell me. If you force your confidence upon me, Mr Headstone, I'll give up every word of it. Mind! Take notice. I'll give up it, and I'll give up you. I will
It's for me to speak, not you
If you do, you'll do it at your peril. I am going to put your selfishness before you, Mr Headstone -- your passionate, violent, and ungovernable selfishness -- to show you why I can, and why I will, have nothing more to do with you
If you had any part -- I don't say what -- in this attack
or if you know anything about it -- I don't say how much -- or if you know who did it -- I go no closer -- you did an injury to me that's never to be forgiven. You know that I took you with me to his chambers in the Temple when I told him my opinion of him, and made myself responsible for my opinion of you. You know that I took you with me when I was watching him with a view to recovering my sister and bringing her to her senses; you know that I have allowed myself to be mixed up with you, all through this business, in favouring your desire to marry my sister. And how do you know that, pursuing the ends of your own violent temper, you have not laid me open to suspicion? Is that your gratitude to me, Mr Headstone
I am going to be plain with you, Mr Headstone
because this is no time for affecting not to know things that I do know -- except certain things at which it might not be very safe for you, to hint again. What I mean is this: if you were a good master, I was a good pupil. I have done you plenty of credit, and in improving my own reputation I have improved yours quite as much. Very well then. Starting on equal terms, I want to put before you how you have shown your gratitude to me, for doing all I could to further your wishes with reference to my sister. You have compromised me by being seen about with me, endeavouring to counteract this Mr Eugene Wrayburn. That's the first thing you have done. If my character, and my now dropping you, help me out of that, Mr Headstone, the deliverance is to be attributed to me, and not to you. No thanks to you for it
I am going on, Mr Headstone, don't you be afraid. I am going on to the end, and I have told you beforehand what the end is. Now, you know my story. You are as well aware as I am, that I have had many disadvantages to leave behind me in life. You have heard me mention my father, and you are sufficiently acquainted with the fact that the home from which I, as I may say, escaped, might have been a more creditable one than it was. My father died, and then it might have been supposed that my way to respectability was pretty clear. No. For then my sister begins
When I speak of my sister, I devoutly wish that you had never seen her, Mr Headstone. However, you did see her, and that's useless now. I confided in you about her. I explained her character to you, and how she interposed some ridiculous fanciful notions in the way of our being as respectable as I tried for. You fell in love with her, and I favoured you with all my might. She could not be induced to favour you, and so we came into collision with this Mr Eugene Wrayburn. Now, what have you done? Why, you have justified my sister in being firmly set against you from first to last, and you have put me in the wrong again! And why have you done it? Because, Mr Headstone, you are in all your passions so selfish, and so concentrated upon yourself that you have not bestowed one proper thought on me
It is
an extraordinary circumstance attendant on my life, that every effort I make towards perfect respectability, is impeded by somebody else through no fault of mine! Not content with doing what I have put before you, you will drag my name into notoriety through dragging my sister's -- which you are pretty sure to do, if my suspicions have any foundation at all -- and the worse you prove to be, the harder it will be for me to detach myself from being associated with you in people's minds
However, I have made up my mind that I will become respectable in the scale of society, and that I will not be dragged down by others. I have done with my sister as well as with you. Since she cares so little for me as to care nothing for undermining my respectability, she shall go her way and I will go mine. My prospects are very good, and I mean to follow them alone. Mr Headstone, I don't say what you have got upon your conscience, for I don't know. Whatever lies upon it, I hope you will see the justice of keeping wide and clear of me, and will find a consolation in completely exonerating all but yourself. I hope, before many years are out, to succeed the master in my present school, and the mistress being a single woman, though some years older than I am, I might even marry her. If it is any comfort to you to know what plans I may work out by keeping myself strictly respectable in the scale of society, these are the plans at present occurring to me. In conclusion, if you feel a sense of having injured me, and a desire to make some small reparation, I hope you will think how respectable you might have been yourself and will contemplate your blighted existence
You wicked old boy
you'll force me to run away from you, after all, you will; and then you'll shake to bits, and there'll be nobody to pick up the pieces
I thought it was you
Did you
And I thought it was you, young man. Quite a coincidence. You're not mistaken, and I'm not mistaken. How clever we are
Well, and how are you
I am pretty much as usual, sir
A very unfortunate parent, worried out of my life and senses by a very bad child
But you're not a parent
and consequently it's of no use talking to you upon a family subject.-- To what am I to attribute the honour and favour
To a wish to improve your acquaintance
We never meet now
do we
No
So I had a mind
to come and have a talk with you about our dodging friend, the child of Israel
So HE gave you my address; did he
I got it out of him
You seem to see a good deal of him
A good deal of him you seem to see, considering
Yes, I do
Considering
Haven't you
done interceding with him yet
No
La! Been interceding with him all this time, and sticking to him still
Sticking to him is the word
Are you in the army
Not exactly
Navy
N -- no
What are you then
I am a gentleman, I am
Oh
Yes, to be sure! That accounts for your having so much time to give to interceding. But only to think how kind and friendly a gentleman you must be
Let's get back to the dodgerest of the dodgers
What's he up to in the case of your friend the handsome gal? He must have some object. What's his object
Cannot undertake to say, sir, I am sure
He won't acknowledge where she's gone
and I have a fancy that I should like to have another look at her. Now I know he knows where she is gone
Cannot undertake to say, sir, I am sure
And you know where she is gone
Cannot undertake to say, sir, really
Miss Jenny!-- That's your name, if I don't mistake
Probably you don't mistake, sir
because you had it on the best authority. Mine, you know
Miss Jenny! Instead of coming up and being dead, let's come out and look alive. It'll pay better, I assure you
You'll find it pay better
Perhaps
perhaps you'll explain your meaning, young man, which is Greek to me.-- You must have another touch of blue in your trimming, my dear
Look here
Are you attending
I am attending, sir
Another touch of blue in your trimming, my dear
Well, look here
If you're attending
Light blue, my sweet young lady
being best suited to your fair complexion and your flaxen curls
I say, if you're attending
it'll pay better in this way. It'll lead in a roundabout manner to your buying damage and waste of Pubsey and Co. at a nominal price, or even getting it for nothing
Aha
But you are not so roundabout, Little Eyes, that I don't notice your answering for Pubsey and Co. after all! Little Eyes, Little Eyes, you're too cunning by half
And I take it for granted
that to get the most of your materials for nothing would be well worth your while, Miss Jenny
You may take it for granted
that it's always well worth my while to make money
Now
you're answering to a sensible purpose. Now, you're coming out and looking alive! So I make so free, Miss Jenny, as to offer the remark, that you and Judah were too thick together to last. You can't come to be intimate with such a deep file as Judah without beginning to see a little way into him, you know
I must own
that we are not good friends at present
I know you're not good friends at present
I know all about it. I should like to pay off Judah, by not letting him have his own deep way in everything. In most things he'll get it by hook or by crook, but -- hang it all!-- don't let him have his own deep way in everything. That's too much
How can I prevent his having his own way
Deep way, I called it
His own deep way, in anything
I'll tell you
I like to hear you ask it, because it's looking alive. It's what I should expect to find in one of your sagacious understanding. Now, candidly
Eh
I said, now candidly
Oh-h
I should be glad to countermine him, respecting the handsome gal, your friend. He means something there. You may depend upon it, Judah means something there. He has a motive, and of course his motive is a dark motive. Now, whatever his motive is, it's necessary to his motive
that it should be kept from me, what he has done with her. So I put it to you, who know: What HAS he done with her? I ask no more. And is that asking much, when you understand that it will pay
Where d'ye live
Albany, Piccadilly
When are you at home
When you like
Breakfast-time
No better time in the day
I'll look in upon you to-morrow, young man. Those two ladies
This is looking alive indeed
Mark you! I promise you nothing
No no. I understand
The damage and waste question shall be settled first. It shall be made to pay; don't you be afraid. Good-day, Miss Jenny
Good-day, young man
Misty, misty, misty. Can't make it out. Little Eyes and the wolf in a conspiracy? Or Little Eyes and the wolf against one another? Can't make it out. My poor Lizzie, have they both designs against you, either way? Can't make it out. Is Little Eyes Pubsey, and the wolf Co? Can't make it out. Pubsey true to Co, and Co to Pubsey? Pubsey false to Co, and Co to Pubsey? Can't make it out. What said Little Eyes? "Now, candidly?" Ah! However the cat jumps, HE'S a liar. That's all I can make out at present; but you may go to bed in the Albany, Piccadilly, with THAT for your pillow, young man
the trembles' being in full force upon him that evening, and likewise what are popularly called 'the horrors
Sixty threepennorths
You want some one
I am going up stairs to Mr Fledgeby's
You cannot do that at this moment. There is a gentleman with him. I am waiting for the gentleman. His business with Mr Fledgeby will very soon be transacted, and then you can go up. Until the gentleman comes down, you must wait here
Well? Why do you listen
I am not listening
What do you hear
Is it a kind of a spluttering somewhere
Mr Fledgeby in his shower-bath, perhaps
And somebody's beating a carpet, I think
Mr Fledgeby's carpet, I dare say
Well
What now
I hope there's nothing the matter
Where
I don't know where
But I never heard such odd noises. Don't you think I had better call somebody
I think you had better not
Is your business done, Alfred
Very thoroughly done
You can go up to Mr Fledgeby as soon as you like
Oh! And you can take these three pieces of stick with you
and say, if you please, that they come from Mr Alfred Lammle, with his compliments on leaving England. Mr Alfred Lammle. Be so good as not to forget the name
Mr Alfred Lammle, if you'll be so good. Compliments, on leaving England
Lammle, Lammle, Lammle
where have I heard that name? Lammle, Lammle? I know! Saint Mary Axe
Good gracious! Is Little Eyes choking
Oh Lord
Oh my eye! Stop thief! I am strangling. Fire! Oh my eye! A glass of water. Give me a glass of water. Shut the door. Murder! Oh Lord
Oh my eye
It's salt and snuff. It's up my nose, and down my throat, and in my wind-pipe. Ugh! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ah -- h -- h -- h
And Oh my Eye, I'm so sore
Oh I smart so! Do put something to my back and arms, and legs and shoulders. Ugh! It's down my throat again and can't come up. Ow! Ow! Ow! Ah -- h -- h -- h! Oh I smart so
Oh my eye! don't slap me! I'm covered with weales and I smart so
What ever possessed you to take salt and snuff, young man
I didn't take it
It was crammed into my mouth
Who crammed it
He did
The assassin. Lammle. He rubbed it into my mouth and up my nose and down my throat -- Ow! Ow! Ow! Ah -- h -- h -- h! Ugh!-- to prevent my crying out, and then cruelly assaulted me
With this
That's the weapon
He broke it over me. Oh I smart so! How did you come by it
When he ran down stairs and joined the lady he had left in the hall with his hat
Oh
she was holding his hat, was she? I might have known she was in it
When he came down stairs and joined the lady who wouldn't let me come up, he gave me the pieces for you, and I was to say, "With Mr Alfred Lammle's compliments on his leaving England
Shall I go for the police
Stop! No, don't
Don't, please. We had better keep it quiet. Will you be so good as shut the door? Oh I do smart so
said Mr Fledgeby, sitting up in anguish, with his Turkish cap half on and half off, and the bars on his face getting bluer, 'do me the kindness to look at my back and shoulders. They must be in an awful state, for I hadn't got my dressing-gown on, when the brute came rushing in. Cut my shirt away from the collar; there's a pair of scissors on that table. Oh
How I do smart, to be sure
There
Oh Lord, yes
And all over! Everywhere
You may well smart, young man
What do you think of vinegar and brown paper
Does it look as if vinegar and brown paper was the sort of application
Yes
It looks as if it ought to be Pickled
Pickled
My kitchen is on this floor
you'll find brown paper in a dresser-drawer there, and a bottle of vinegar on a shelf. Would you have the kindness to make a few plasters and put 'em on? It can't be kept too quiet
One, two -- hum -- five, six. You'll want six
There's smart enough
for sixty
I think
he ought to have a little pepper? Just a few grains? I think the young man's tricks and manners make a claim upon his friends for a little pepper
There, young man
Now I hope you feel pretty comfortable
Oh -- h how I do smart
Business between you and me being out of the question to-day, young man, and my time being precious
I'll make myself scarce. Are you comfortable now
Oh my eye
No, I ain't. Oh -- h -- h! how I do smart
Boh
Mr Wolf at home
Ah Jenny, is it you? I thought you had given me up
And so I had given up the treacherous wolf of the forest
but, godmother, it strikes me you have come back. I am not quite sure, because the wolf and you change forms. I want to ask you a question or two, to find out whether you are really godmother or really wolf. May I
Yes, Jenny, yes
If you're afraid of the fox
you may dismiss all present expectations of seeing that animal. HE won't show himself abroad, for many a day
What do you mean, my child
I mean, godmother
that the fox has caught a famous flogging, and that if his skin and bones are not tingling, aching, and smarting at this present instant, no fox did ever tingle, ache, and smart
Now, godmother
I particularly wish to ask you what has taken place here, since I left the wolf here? Because I have an idea about the size of a marble, rolling about in my little noddle. First and foremost, are you Pubsey and Co., or are you either? Upon your solemn word and honour
Secondly, isn't Fledgeby both Pubsey and Co
My idea
is now about the size of an orange. But before it gets any bigger, welcome back, dear godmother
I humbly beg your forgiveness, godmother. I am truly sorry. I ought to have had more faith in you. But what could I suppose when you said nothing for yourself, you know? I don't mean to offer that as a justification, but what could I suppose, when you were a silent party to all he said? It did look bad; now didn't it
It looked so bad, Jenny
that I will straightway tell you what an impression it wrought upon me. I was hateful in mine own eyes. I was hateful to myself, in being so hateful to the debtor and to you. But more than that, and worse than that, and to pass out far and broad beyond myself -- I reflected that evening, sitting alone in my garden on the housetop, that I was doing dishonour to my ancient faith and race. I reflected -- clearly reflected for the first time -- that in bending my neck to the yoke I was willing to wear, I bent the unwilling necks of the whole Jewish people. For it is not, in Christian countries, with the Jews as with other peoples. Men say, 'This is a bad Greek, but there are good Greeks. This is a bad Turk, but there are good Turks
Thus I reflected, I say, sitting that evening in my garden on the housetop. And passing the painful scene of that day in review before me many times, I always saw that the poor gentleman believed the story readily, because I was one of the Jews -- that you believed the story readily, my child, because I was one of the Jews- -that the story itself first came into the invention of the originator thereof, because I was one of the Jews. This was the result of my having had you three before me, face to face, and seeing the thing visibly presented as upon a theatre. Wherefore I perceived that the obligation was upon me to leave this service. But Jenny, my dear
I promised that you should pursue your questions, and I obstruct them
On the contrary, godmother; my idea is as large now as a pumpkin -- and YOU know what a pumpkin is, don't you? So you gave notice that you were going? Does that come next
I indited a letter to my master. Yes. To that effect
And what said Tingling-Tossing-Aching-Screaming- Scratching-Smarter
He held me to certain months of servitude, which were his lawful term of notice. They expire to-morrow. Upon their expiration -- not before -- I had meant to set myself right with my Cinderella
My idea is getting so immense now
I'll find out where he has placed that girl, and I'll betray his secret because it's dear to him
added the dolls' dressmaker, rigid from head to foot with energy as she shook her little fist before her eyes, 'that I didn't give him Cayenne pepper and chopped pickled Capsicum
Godmother, godmother, godmother
I really lose all patience with you. One would think you believed in the Good Samaritan. How can you be so inconsistent
Jenny dear
it is the custom of our people to help
Oh! Bother your people
If your people don't know better than to go and help Little Eyes, it's a pity they ever got out of Egypt. Over and above that
he wouldn't take your help if you offered it. Too much ashamed. Wants to keep it close and quiet, and to keep you out of the way
Riah
Well, godmother
And so you're thrown upon the world
It would appear so, Jenny, and somewhat suddenly
Where are you going to seek your fortune
Verily, Jenny
the question is to the purpose, and more easily asked than answered. But as I have experience of the ready goodwill and good help of those who have given occupation to Lizzie, I think I will seek them out for myself
On foot
Ay
Have I not my staff
The best thing you can do
for the time being, at all events, is to come home with me, godmother. Nobody's there but my bad child, and Lizzie's lodging stands empty
Let us see what it is
Let us make haste and look, godmother
O gentlemen, gentlemen, he belongs to me
Belongs to you
O yes, dear gentlemen, he's my child, out without leave. My poor bad, bad boy! and he don't know me, he don't know me! O what shall I do
when my own child don't know me
It's her drunken father
No, surely not
bring him to the nearest doctor's shop
Mine
You had better send for something to cover it. All's over
If my poor boy
had been brought up better, he might have done better. Not that I reproach myself. I hope I have no cause for that
None indeed, Jenny, I am very certain
Thank you, godmother. It cheers me to hear you say so. But you see it is so hard to bring up a child well, when you work, work, work, all day. When he was out of employment, I couldn't always keep him near me. He got fractious and nervous, and I was obliged to let him go into the streets. And he never did well in the streets, he never did well out of sight. How often it happens with children
Too often, even in this sad sense
How can I say what I might have turned out myself, but for my back having been so bad and my legs so queer, when I was young
I had nothing to do but work, and so I worked. I couldn't play. But my poor unfortunate child could play, and it turned out the worse for him
And not for him alone, Jenny
Well! I don't know, godmother. He suffered heavily, did my unfortunate boy. He was very, very ill sometimes. And I called him a quantity of names
I don't know that his going wrong was much the worse for me. If it ever was, let us forget it
You are a good girl, you are a patient girl
As for patience
not much of that, godmother. If I had been patient, I should never have called him names. But I hope I did it for his good. And besides, I felt my responsibility as a mother, so much. I tried reasoning, and reasoning failed. I tried coaxing, and coaxing failed. I tried scolding and scolding failed. But I was bound to try everything, you know, with such a charge upon my hands. Where would have been my duty to my poor lost boy, if I had not tried everything
And now
having knocked off my rosy-cheeked young friends, I'll knock off my white-cheeked self
The disadvantage of making for yourself
is, that you can't charge anybody else for the job, and the advantage is, that you haven't to go out to try on. Humph! Very fair indeed! If He could see me now (whoever he is) I hope he wouldn't repent of his bargain
I mean to go alone, godmother, in my usual carriage, and you'll be so kind as keep house while I am gone. It's not far off. And when I return, we'll have a cup of tea, and a chat over future arrangements. It's a very plain last house that I have been able to give my poor unfortunate boy; but he'll accept the will for the deed if he knows anything about it; and if he doesn't know anything about it
why, it won't matter to him. I see the service in the Prayer-book says, that we brought nothing into this world and it is certain we can take nothing out. It comforts me for not being able to hire a lot of stupid undertaker's things for my poor child, and seeming as if I was trying to smuggle 'em out of this world with him, when of course I must break down in the attempt, and bring 'em all back again. As it is, there'll be nothing to bring back but me, and that's quite consistent, for I shan't be brought back, some day
I must have a very short cry, godmother, before I cheer up for good
Because after all a child is a child, you know
You wouldn't mind my cutting out something while we are at tea, would you
Cinderella, dear child
will you never rest
Oh! It's not work, cutting out a pattern isn't
The truth is, godmother, I want to fix it while I have it correct in my mind
Have you seen it to-day then
Yes, godmother. Saw it just now. It's a surplice, that's what it is. Thing our clergymen wear, you know
And what have you to do with that, Jenny
Why, godmother
you must know that we Professors who live upon our taste and invention, are obliged to keep our eyes always open. And you know already that I have many extra expenses to meet just now. So, it came into my head while I was weeping at my poor boy's grave, that something in my way might be done with a clergyman
What can be done
Not a funeral, never fear
The public don't like to be made melancholy, I know very well. I am seldom called upon to put my young friends into mourning; not into real mourning, that is; Court mourning they are rather proud of. But a doll clergyman, my dear, -- glossy black curls and whiskers -- uniting two of my young friends in matrimony
is quite another affair. If you don't see those three at the altar in Bond Street, in a jiffy, my name's Jack Robinson
Pardon me
You are the dolls' dressmaker
I am the dolls' dressmaker, sir
Lizzie Hexam's friend
Yes, sir
And Lizzie Hexam's friend
Here is a note from her, entreating you to accede to the request of Mr Mortimer Lightwood, the bearer. Mr Riah chances to know that I am Mr Mortimer Lightwood, and will tell you so
Will you read the note
It's very short
There was no time to make it longer. Time was so very precious. My dear friend Mr Eugene Wrayburn is dying
Is dying
at some distance from here. He is sinking under injuries received at the hands of a villain who attacked him in the dark. I come straight from his bedside. He is almost always insensible. In a short restless interval of sensibility, or partial sensibility, I made out that he asked for you to be brought to sit by him. Hardly relying on my own interpretation of the indistinct sounds he made, I caused Lizzie to hear them. We were both sure that he asked for you
What was it, my dear Eugene
Will you, Mortimer
Send for her
My dear fellow, she is here
I can't shake hands, Jenny
but I am very glad to see you
Ask her if she has seen the children
Ask her if she has smelt the flowers
Oh! I know
I understand him now
You mean my long bright slanting rows of children, who used to bring me ease and rest? You mean the children who used to take me up, and make me light
Yes
I have not seen them since I saw you. I never see them now, but I am hardly ever in pain now
It was a pretty fancy
But I have heard my birds sing
and I have smelt my flowers. Yes, indeed I have! And both were most beautiful and most Divine
Stay and help to nurse me
I should like you to have the fancy here, before I die
Mortimer
My dear Eugene
If you can give me anything to keep me here for only a few minutes
To prevent my wandering away I don't know where -- for I begin to be sensible that I have just come back, and that I shall lose myself again -- do so, dear boy
Don't tell me not to speak, for I must speak. If you knew the harassing anxiety that gnaws and wears me when I am wandering in those places -- where are those endless places, Mortimer? They must be at an immense distance
Don't be afraid -- I am not gone yet. What was it
You wanted to tell me something, Eugene. My poor dear fellow, you wanted to say something to your old friend -- to the friend who has always loved you, admired you, imitated you, founded himself upon you, been nothing without you, and who, God knows, would be here in your place if he could
Tut, tut
I am not worth it. I acknowledge that I like it, dear boy, but I am not worth it. This attack, my dear Mortimer; this murder
You and I suspect some one
More than suspect. But, Mortimer, while I lie here, and when I lie here no longer, I trust to you that the perpetrator is never brought to justice
Eugene
Her innocent reputation would be ruined, my friend. She would be punished, not he. I have wronged her enough in fact; I have wronged her still more in intention. You recollect what pavement is said to be made of good intentions. It is made of bad intentions too. Mortimer, I am lying on it, and I know
Be comforted, my dear Eugene
I will, when you have promised me. Dear Mortimer, the man must never be pursued. If he should be accused, you must keep him silent and save him. Don't think of avenging me; think only of hushing the story and protecting her. You can confuse the case, and turn aside the circumstances. Listen to what I say to you. It was not the schoolmaster, Bradley Headstone. Do you hear me? Twice; it was not the schoolmaster, Bradley Headstone. Do you hear me? Three times; it was not the schoolmaster, Bradley Headstone
Dear fellow, I am wandering away. Stay me for another moment, if you can
I don't know how long ago it was done, whether weeks, days, or hours. No matter. There is inquiry on foot, and pursuit. Say! Is there not
Yes
Check it; divert it! Don't let her be brought in question. Shield her. The guilty man, brought to justice, would poison her name. Let the guilty man go unpunished. Lizzie and my reparation before all! Promise me
Eugene, I do. I promise you
My dear Eugene, I am here
How long is this to last, Mortimer
Still, Eugene, you are no worse than you were
But I know there's no hope. Yet I pray it may last long enough for you to do me one last service, and for me to do one last action. Keep me here a few moments, Mortimer. Try, try
Hold me here, dear fellow, if you can. Stop my wandering away. I am going
Not yet, not yet. Tell me, dear Eugene, what is it I shall do
Keep me here for only a single minute. I am going away again. Don't let me go. Hear me speak first. Stop me -- stop me
My poor Eugene, try to be calm
I do try. I try so hard. If you only knew how hard! Don't let me wander till I have spoken. Give me a little more wine
You can leave me with Jenny, while you speak to her and tell her what I beseech of her. You can leave me with Jenny, while you are gone. There's not much for you to do. You won't be long away
No, no, no. But tell me what it is that I shall do, Eugene
I am going! You can't hold me
Tell me in a word, Eugene
Hush
His eyes are closing. He'll be conscious when he next opens them. Shall I give you a leading word to say to him
O Jenny, if you could only give me the right word
I can. Stoop down
Try it
Don't speak, Eugene. Do no more than look at me, and listen to me. You follow what I say
I am going on from the point where we broke off. Is the word we should soon have come to -- is it -- Wife
O God bless you, Mortimer
Hush! Don't be agitated. Don't speak. Hear me, dear Eugene. Your mind will be more at peace, lying here, if you make Lizzie your wife. You wish me to speak to her, and tell her so, and entreat her to be your wife. You ask her to kneel at this bedside and be married to you, that your reparation may be complete. Is that so
Yes. God bless you! Yes
It shall be done, Eugene. Trust it to me. I shall have to go away for some few hours, to give effect to your wishes. You see this is unavoidable
Dear friend, I said so
True. But I had not the clue then. How do you think I got it
Yes indeed
the discovery was hers. Observe my dear Eugene; while I am away you will know that I have discharged my trust with Lizzie, by finding her here, in my present place at your bedside, to leave you no more. A final word before I go. This is the right course of a true man, Eugene. And I solemnly believe, with all my soul, that if Providence should mercifully restore you to us, you will be blessed with a noble wife in the preserver of your life, whom you will dearly love
Amen. I am sure of that. But I shall not come through it, Mortimer
You will not be the less hopeful or less strong, for this, Eugene
No. Touch my face with yours, in case I should not hold out till you come back. I love you, Mortimer. Don't be uneasy for me while you are gone. If my dear brave girl will take me, I feel persuaded that I shall live long enough to be married, dear fellow
Is he conscious
He is conscious, Jenny
He knows his wife
Mr Lightwood
My husband
I'll bring him in
Come up stairs, my darling
What can it mean
Now, my life
tell me all about it
Tell me all about it
You will come to this marriage with me, John dear
N -- no, my love; I can't do that
You can't do that, John
No, my dear, it's quite out of the question. Not to be thought of
Am I to go alone, John
No, my dear, you will go with Mr Lightwood
Don't you think it's time we went down to Mr Lightwood, John dear
My darling, it's almost time you went, but I must ask you to excuse me to him altogether
You never mean, John dear, that you are not going to see him? Why, he knows you have come home. I told him so
That's a little unfortunate, but it can't be helped. Unfortunate or fortunate, I positively cannot see him, my love
John dear, you never can be jealous of Mr Lightwood
Why, my precious child
how could I be jealous of him? Why should I be jealous of him
Because, you know, John
though he did rather admire me once, it was not my fault
It was your fault that I admired you
and why not your fault that he admired you? But, I jealous on that account? Why, I must go distracted for life, if I turned jealous of every one who used to find my wife beautiful and winning
I am half angry with you, John dear
and half pleased with you; because you are such a stupid old fellow, and yet you say nice things, as if you meant them. Don't be mysterious, sir. What harm do you know of Mr Lightwood
None, my love
What has he ever done to you, John
He has never done anything to me, my dear. I know no more against him than I know against Mr Wrayburn; he has never done anything to me; neither has Mr Wrayburn. And yet I have exactly the same objection to both of them
Oh, John
You are nothing better than a sphinx! And a married sphinx isn't a -- isn't a nice confidential husband
Bella, my life
look at me. I want to speak to you
In earnest, Blue Beard of the secret chamber
In earnest. And I confess to the secret chamber. Don't you remember that you asked me not to declare what I thought of your higher qualities until you had been tried
Yes, John dear. And I fully meant it, and I fully mean it
The time will come, my darling -- I am no prophet, but I say so,-- when you WILL be tried. The time will come, I think, when you will undergo a trial through which you will never pass quite triumphantly for me, unless you can put perfect faith in me
Then you may be sure of me, John dear, for I can put perfect faith in you, and I do, and I always, always will. Don't judge me by a little thing like this, John. In little things, I am a little thing myself -- I always was. But in great things, I hope not; I don't mean to boast, John dear, but I hope not
Now, I'll go down to, and go away with, Mr Lightwood
You are the most creasing and tumbling Clumsy-Boots of a packer, John, that ever was; but if you're quite good, and will promise never to do so any more (though I don't know what you have done!) you may pack me a little bag for a night, while I get my bonnet on
Mr Rokesmith goes with us
Oh, I forgot
His best compliments. His face is swollen to the size of two faces, and he is to go to bed directly, poor fellow, to wait for the doctor, who is coming to lance him
It is curious
that I have never yet seen Mr Rokesmith, though we have been engaged in the same affairs
Really
I begin to think
that I never shall see him
These things happen so oddly sometimes
that there seems a kind of fatality in them. But I am quite ready, Mr Lightwood
We must make haste to get out, Margaretta, my dear, or we shall be descended on by Mrs Sprodgkin
Oh YES, for she IS such a marplot, Frank, and DOES worry so
Well, Sally, there you are
Detained at the last moment by one who had a claim upon me
Oh yes, detained at the last moment. But AS to the claim, Frank, I MUST say that I DO think you are OVER-considerate sometimes, and allow THAT to be a LITTLE abused
HOW is Mr Rokesmith, and IS he gone before us, or DOES he follow us
Oh DEAR
I am SO sorry! Mr Rokesmith took SUCH an interest in Lizzie Hexam, when we were there before. And if we had ONLY known of his face, we COULD have given him something that would have kept it down long enough for so SHORT a purpose
I don't know HOW it is
and I am SURE you don't, Frank, but the clergy and their wives seem to CAUSE swelled faces. Whenever I take notice of a child in the school, it seems to me as if its face swelled INSTANTLY. Frank NEVER makes acquaintance with a new old woman, but she gets the face- ache. And another thing is, we DO make the poor children sniff so. I don't know HOW we do it, and I should be so glad not to; but the MORE we take notice of them, the MORE they sniff. Just as they do when the text is given out.-- Frank, that's a schoolmaster. I have seen him somewhere
I cannot recall your name
but I remember to have seen you in your school
My name is Bradley Headstone, sir
I ought to have remembered it
I hope you are well? A little overworked, I am afraid
Yes, I am overworked just at present, sir
Had no play in your last holiday time
No, sir
All work and no play, Mr Headstone, will not make dulness, in your case, I dare say; but it will make dyspepsia, if you don't take care
I will endeavour to take care, sir. Might I beg leave to speak to you, outside, a moment
By all means
One of your ladies, sir, mentioned within my hearing a name that I am acquainted with; I may say, well acquainted with. The name of the sister of an old pupil of mine. He was my pupil for a long time, and has got on and gone upward rapidly. The name of Hexam. The name of Lizzie Hexam
Yes
We are going down to see her
I gathered as much, sir. I hope there is nothing amiss with the sister of my old pupil? I hope no bereavement has befallen her. I hope she is in no affliction? Has lost no -- relation
I am glad to tell you, Mr Headstone, that the sister of your old pupil has not sustained any such loss. You thought I might be going down to bury some one
That may have been the connexion of ideas, sir, with your clerical character, but I was not conscious of it.-- Then you are not, sir
No. In fact
since you are so interested in the sister of your old pupil, I may as well tell you that I am going down to marry her
Not to marry her, myself
because I have a wife already. To perform the marriage service at her wedding
You are quite ill, Mr Headstone
It is not much, sir. It will pass over very soon. I am accustomed to be seized with giddiness. Don't let me detain you, sir; I stand in need of no assistance, I thank you. Much obliged by your sparing me these minutes of your time
There is a person outside who seems to be really ill, and to require some help, though he says he does not
Oh! You are here, sir
That person you pointed out to me is in a fit
I infer from what he told me that he is subject to such attacks. He will come to, in the air, in a little while
If he were gone, she would still be sitting by him
How does the time go? Has our Mortimer come back
Yes, Eugene, and all is ready
Dear boy
we both thank you heartily. Lizzie, tell them how welcome they are, and that I would be eloquent if I could
There is no need
We know it. Are you better, Mr Wrayburn
I am much happier
Much better too, I hope
Undraw the curtains, my dear girl
and let us see our wedding-day
I bless the day
I bless the day
You have made a poor marriage of it, my sweet wife
A shattered graceless fellow, stretched at his length here, and next to nothing for you when you are a young widow
I have made the marriage that I would have given all the world to dare to hope for
You have thrown yourself away
But you have followed the treasure of your heart. My justification is, that you had thrown that away first, dear girl
No. I had given it to you
The same thing, my poor Lizzie
Hush! hush! A very different thing
No
let me look at you, Lizzie, while I can. You brave devoted girl! You heroine
Lizzie
when you see me wandering away from this refuge that I have so ill deserved, speak to me by my name, and I think I shall come back
Yes, dear Eugene
There
I should have gone then, but for that
Eugene, my dear husband
There again! You see how you can recall me
Ah, my beloved Lizzie
How shall I ever pay all I owe you, if I recover
Don't be ashamed of me
and you will have more than paid all
It would require a life, Lizzie, to pay all; more than a life
Live for that, then; live for me, Eugene; live to see how hard I will try to improve myself, and never to discredit you
My darling girl
On the contrary, I have been thinking whether it is not the best thing I can do, to die
The best thing you can do, to leave me with a broken heart
I don't mean that, my dear girl. I was not thinking of that. What I was thinking of was this. Out of your compassion for me, in this maimed and broken state, you make so much of me -- you think so well of me -- you love me so dearly
Heaven knows I love you dearly
And Heaven knows I prize it! Well. If I live, you'll find me out
I shall find out that my husband has a mine of purpose and energy, and will turn it to the best account
I hope so, dearest Lizzie
I hope so. But I can't summon the vanity to think so. How can I think so, looking back on such a trifiling wasted youth as mine! I humbly hope it; but I daren't believe it. There is a sharp misgiving in my conscience that if I were to live, I should disappoint your good opinion and my own -- and that I ought to die, my dear
Would you not like to be rich NOW, my darling
How can you ask me such a question, John dear? Am I not rich
You know, John dear
that I hope I may safely be trusted in great things. And it surely cannot be a little thing that causes you so much uneasiness. It's very considerate of you to try to hide from me that you are uncomfortable about something, but it's quite impossible to be done, John love
I admit that I am rather uneasy, my own
Then please to tell me what about, sir
Never mind
John requires me to put perfect faith in him, and he shall not be disappointed
No jewels for your own wear, for instance
Mr Lightwood and I have met before
Met before, John
Mr Lightwood told me he had never seen you
I did not then know that I had
When Mr Lightwood saw me, my love
my name was Julius Handford
I would have avoided mentioning it in your presence
but since your husband mentions it himself, I must confirm his strange admission. I saw him as Mr Julius Handford, and I afterwards (unquestionably to his knowledge) took great pains to trace him out
Quite true. But it was not my object or my interest
to be traced out
Mr Lightwood
as chance has brought us face to face at last -- which is not to be wondered at, for the wonder is, that, in spite of all my pains to the contrary, chance has not confronted us together sooner -- I have only to remind you that you have been at my house, and to add that I have not changed my residence
Sir' returned Lightwood, with a meaning glance towards Bella, 'my position is a truly painful one. I hope that no complicity in a very dark transaction may attach to you, but you cannot fail to know that your own extraordinary conduct has laid you under suspicion
I know it has
My professional duty
is greatly at variance with my personal inclination; but I doubt, Mr Handford, or Mr Rokesmith, whether I am justified in taking leave of you here, with your whole course unexplained
Don't be alarmed, my darling. Mr Lightwood will find that he is quite justified in taking leave of me here. At all events
he will find that I mean to take leave of him here
I think, sir
you can scarcely deny that when I came to your house on the occasion to which you have referred, you avoided me of a set purpose
Mr Lightwood, I assure you I have no disposition to deny it, or intention to deny it. I should have continued to avoid you, in pursuance of the same set purpose, for a short time longer, if we had not met now. I am going straight home, and shall remain at home to-morrow until noon. Hereafter, I hope we may be better acquainted. Good-day
And you don't ask me, my dear, why I bore that name
No, John love. I should dearly like to know, of course
but I wait until you can tell me of your own free will. You asked me if I could have perfect faith in you, and I said yes, and I meant it
You cannot have been prepared, my dearest, for such a discovery as that this mysterious Mr Handford was identical with your husband
No, John dear, of course not. But you told me to prepare to be tried, and I prepared myself
And now
lay stress, my dear, on these words that I am going to add. I stand in no kind of peril, and I can by possibility be hurt at no one's hand
You are quite, quite sure of that, John dear
Not a hair of my head! Moreover, I have done no wrong, and have injured no man. Shall I swear it
No, John
Never to me
But circumstances
I can, and I will, disperse them in a moment -- have surrounded me with one of the strangest suspicions ever known. You heard Mr Lightwood speak of a dark transaction
Yes, John
You are prepared to hear explicitly what he meant
Yes, John
My life, he meant the murder of John Harmon, your allotted husband
You cannot be suspected, John
Dear love, I can be -- for I am
How dare they
My beloved husband, how dare they
Even knowing this, you can trust me, Bella
I can trust you, John dear, with all my soul. If I could not trust you, I should fall dead at your feet
Hush
Don't let the lady be alarmed by my striking a light
I take the liberty
to bring myself to the recollection of Mr Julius Handford, who gave me his name and address down at our place a considerable time ago. Would the lady object to my lighting the pair of candles on the chimneypiece, to throw a further light upon the subject? No? Thank you, ma'am. Now, we look cheerful
You favoured me, Mr Handford
by writing down your name and address, and I produce the piece of paper on which you wrote it. Comparing the same with the writing on the fly-leaf of this book on the table -- and a sweet pretty volume it is -- I find the writing of the entry, 'Mrs John Rokesmith. From her husband on her birthday"-- and very gratifying to the feelings such memorials are -- to correspond exactly. Can I have a word with you
Certainly. Here, if you please
Why
though there's nothing for the lady to be at all alarmed at, still, ladies are apt to take alarm at matters of business -- being of that fragile sex that they're not accustomed to them when not of a strictly domestic character -- and I do generally make it a rule to propose retirement from the presence of ladies, before entering upon business topics. Or perhaps
if the lady was to step up-stairs, and take a look at baby now
Mrs Rokesmith
Happy I am sure, to have the honour
Mrs Rokesmith
is satisfied that she can have no reason for being alarmed, whatever the business is
Really? Is that so
But it's a sex to live and learn from, and there's nothing a lady can't accomplish when she once fully gives her mind to it. It's the case with my own wife. Well, ma'am, this good gentleman of yours has given rise to a rather large amount of trouble which might have been avoided if he had come forward and explained himself. Well you see! He DIDN'T come forward and explain himself. Consequently, now that we meet, him and me, you'll say -- and say right -- that there's nothing to be alarmed at, in my proposing to him TO come forward -- or, putting the same meaning in another form, to come along with me -- and explain himself
to come along with me
Do you propose to take me into custody
Why argue
ain't it enough that I propose that you shall come along with me
For what reason
I wonder at it in a man of your education. Why argue
What do you charge against me
I wonder at you before a lady
I wonder, brought up as you have been, you haven't a more delicate mind! I charge you, then, with being some way concerned in the Harmon Murder. I don't say whether before, or in, or after, the fact. I don't say whether with having some knowledge of it that hasn't come out
You don't surprise me. I foresaw your visit this afternoon
Don't
Why, why argue? It's my duty to inform you that whatever you say, will be used against you
I don't think it will
But I tell you it will
Now, having received the caution, do you still say that you foresaw my visit this afternoon
Yes. And I will say something more, if you will step with me into the next room
I have invited this worthy officer, my dear
to make a short excursion with me in which you shall be a sharer. He will take something to eat and drink, I dare say, on your invitation, while you are getting your bonnet on
Don't you see
We are not going in here, John
Yes, my dear; but of our own accord. We shall come out again as easily, never fear
Nothing could be better, for they're at supper with Miss Abbey in the bar
Now
I'll mix with 'em in a casual way, and when I say Identification, perhaps you'll show yourself
It need be sharp to suit your wits, sir
What have you got in hand now
Thanking you for your compliment: not much, Miss Abbey
Who have you got in Cosy
Only a gentleman and his wife, Miss
And who are they? If one may ask it without detriment to your deep plans in the interests of the honest public
They are strangers in this part of the town, Miss Abbey. They are waiting till I shall want the gentleman to show himself somewhere, for half a moment
While they're waiting
couldn't you join us
I don't take my supper till later in the night
and therefore I won't disturb the compactness of the table. But I'll take a glass of flip, if that's flip in the jug in the fender
That's flip
and it's my making, and if even you can find out better, I shall be glad to know where
Ah -- h
That's the smack! There's not a Detective in the Force, Miss Abbey, that could find out better stuff than that
Glad to hear you say so
You ought to know, if anybody does
Mr Job Potterson
I drink your health. Mr Jacob Kibble, I drink yours. Hope you have made a prosperous voyage home, gentlemen both
Same to you
Thank you, sir
Lord bless my soul and body
who wouldn't know your brother to be a Steward! There's a bright and ready twinkle in his eye, there's a neatness in his action, there's a smartness in his figure, there's an air of reliability about him in case you wanted a basin, which points out the steward! And Mr Kibble; ain't he Passenger, all over? While there's that mercantile cut upon him which would make you happy to give him credit for five hundred pound, don't you see the salt sea shining on him too
YOU do, I dare say
but I don't. And as for stewarding, I think it's time my brother gave that up, and took his House in hand on his sister's retiring. The House will go to pieces if he don't. I wouldn't sell it for any money that could be told out, to a person that I couldn't depend upon to be a Law to the Porters, as I have been
There you're right, Miss
A better kept house is not known to our men. What do I say? Half so well a kept house is not known to our men. Show the Force the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters, and the Force -- to a constable -- will show you a piece of perfection, Mr Kibble
And talk of Time slipping by you, as if it was an animal at rustic sports with its tail soaped
why, well you may. Well you may. How has it slipped by us, since the time when Mr Job Potterson here present, Mr Jacob Kibble here present, and an Officer of the Force here present, first came together on a matter of Identification
How has Time slipped by us
since we three very men, at an Inquest in this very house -- Mr Kibble? Taken ill, sir
Potterson! Look! Look there
Heaven defend us, what's that
Sharp's the word, sir
We'll get your lady out at once
My dear, I have a piece of news to tell you. I have left the China House
In a word, my love
the China House is broken up and abolished. There is no such thing any more
Then, are you already in another House, John
Yes, my darling. I am in another way of business. And I am rather better off
Three cheers, ladies and gemplemorums. Hoo -- ray
I am afraid, my life
that you have become very much attached to this cottage
Afraid I have, John? Of course I have
The reason why I said afraid
is, because we must move
O John
Yes, my dear, we must move. We must have our head-quarters in London now. In short, there's a dwelling-house rent-free, attached to my new position, and we must occupy it
That's a gain, John
Yes, my dear, it is undoubtedly a gain
My love, you said it was a gain, and I said it was a gain. A very innocent remark, surely
I won't
allow -- you -- to -- make -- game -- of -- my -- venerable -- Ma
But there's no nursery for me, sir. What do you mean, marble-hearted parent
Made to do
what do you take me for
But really, John dear
will the new house, just as it stands, do for baby? That's the question
I felt that to be the question
and therefore I arranged that you should come with me and look at it, to-morrow morning
John dear
Do you see where we are
Yes, my love. The coachman's quite right
O John
What does this mean
Nothing, my darling, nothing. Let us go on
O my dear John
What does this mean
Nothing, my darling, nothing. Let us go on
I don't know what it means, but it's too much for me. Hold me, John, love
My deary deary, deary girl, that Noddy and me saw married and couldn't wish joy to, or so much as speak to! My deary, deary, deary, wife of John and mother of his little child! My loving loving, bright bright, Pretty Pretty! Welcome to your house and home, my deary
Old lady, old lady
if you don't begin somebody else must
I'm a going to begin, Noddy, my dear
Only it isn't easy for a person to know where to begin, when a person is in this state of delight and happiness. Bella, my dear. Tell me, who's this
Who is this
My husband
Ah! But tell me his name, deary
Rokesmith
No, it ain't
Not a bit of it
Handford then
No, it ain't
Not a bit of it
At least, his name is John, I suppose
Ah! I should think so, deary
I should hope so! Many and many is the time I have called him by his name of John. But what's his other name, his true other name? Give a guess, my pretty
I can't guess
I could
and what's more, I did! I found him out, all in a flash as I may say, one night. Didn't I, Noddy
Ay! That the old lady did
Harkee to me, deary
It was after a particular night when John had been disappointed -- as he thought -- in his affections. It was after a night when John had made an offer to a certain young lady, and the certain young lady had refused it. It was after a particular night, when he felt himself cast-away-like, and had made up his mind to go seek his fortune. It was the very next night. My Noddy wanted a paper out of his Secretary's room, and I says to Noddy, "I am going by the door, and I'll ask him for it." I tapped at his door, and he didn't hear me. I looked in, and saw him a sitting lonely by his fire, brooding over it. He chanced to look up with a pleased kind of smile in my company when he saw me, and then in a single moment every grain of the gunpowder that had been lying sprinkled thick about him ever since I first set eyes upon him as a man at the Bower, took fire! Too many a time had I seen him sitting lonely, when he was a poor child, to be pitied, heart and hand! Too many a time had I seen him in need of being brightened up with a comforting word! Too many and too many a time to be mistaken, when that glimpse of him come at last! No, no! I just makes out to cry, "I know you now! You're John!" And he catches me as I drops.-- So what
might you think by this time that your husband's name was, dear
Not
not Harmon? That's not possible
Don't tremble. Why not possible, deary, when so many things are possible
He was killed
Thought to be
But if ever John Harmon drew the breath of life on earth, that is certainly John Harmon's arm round your waist now, my pretty. If ever John Harmon had a wife on earth, that wife is certainly you. If ever John Harmon and his wife had a child on earth, that child is certainly this
But bless ye, my beauty
It wasn't John only that was in it. We was all of us in it
I don't
yet understand
Of course you don't, my deary
How can you till you're told! So now I am a going to tell you. So you put your two hands between my two hands again
with that blessed little picter lying on your lap, and you shall be told all the story. Now, I'm a going to tell the story. Once, twice, three times, and the horses is off. Here they go! When I cries out that night, "I know you now, you're John! " -- which was my exact words; wasn't they, John
Your exact words
That's a very good arrangement
Keep it there, John. And as we was all of us in it, Noddy you come and lay yours a top of his, and we won't break the pile till the story's done
That's capital
Seems quite a family building; don't it? But the horses is off. Well! When I cries out that night, "I know you now! you're John!" John catches of me, it is true; but I ain't a light weight, bless ye, and he's forced to let me down. Noddy, he hears a noise, and in he trots, and as soon as I anyways comes to myself I calls to him, "Noddy, well I might say as I did say, that night at the Bower, for the Lord be thankful this is John!" On which he gives a heave, and down he goes likewise, with his head under the writing-table. This brings me round comfortable, and that brings him round comfortable, and then John and him and me we all fall a crying for joy
Yes! They cry for joy, my darling
You understand? These two, whom I come to life to disappoint and dispossess, cry for joy
That's right, my dear, don't you mind him
stick to me. Well! Then we sits down, gradually gets cool, and holds a confabulation. John, he tells us how he is despairing in his mind on accounts of a certain fair young person, and how, if I hadn't found him out, he was going away to seek his fortune far and wide, and had fully meant never to come to life, but to leave the property as our wrongful inheritance for ever and a day. At which you never see a man so frightened as my Noddy was. For to think that he should have come into the property wrongful, however innocent, and -- more than that -- might have gone on keeping it to his dying day, turned him whiter than chalk
And you too
Don't you mind him, neither, my deary
So did you
Don't you mind him a single morsel, my dear
but stick to me. Then says John, O, if he could but prove so! Then we both of us ups and says, that minute, "Prove so
Prove it, John!" we says
Prove it and overcome your doubts with triumph, and be happy for the first time in your life, and for the rest of your life." This puts John in a state, to be sure. Then we says, "What will content you? If she was to stand up for you when you was slighted, if she was to show herself of a generous mind when you was oppressed, if she was to be truest to you when you was poorest and friendliest, and all this against her own seeming interest, how would that do?" "Do?" says John, "it would raise me to the skies." "Then," says my Noddy, "make your preparations for the ascent, John, it being my firm belief that up you go
From the first, you was always a special favourite of Noddy's
O you were! And if I had been inclined to be jealous, I don't know what I mightn't have done to you. But as I wasn't -- why, my beauty
I made you a special favourite of my own too. But the horses is coming round the corner. Well! Then says my Noddy, shaking his sides till he was fit to make 'em ache again: "Look out for being slighted and oppressed, John, for if ever a man had a hard master, you shall find me from this present time to be such to you. And then he began
Lord bless you, then he began! And how he DID begin; didn't he
But, bless you
if you could have seen him of a night, at that time of it! The way he'd sit and chuckle over himself! The way he'd say "I've been a regular brown bear to-day," and take himself in his arms and hug himself at the thoughts of the brute he had pretended. But every night he says to me: "Better and better, old lady. What did we say of her? She'll come through it, the true golden gold. This'll be the happiest piece of work we ever done." And then he'd say, "I'll be a grislier old growler to- morrow!" and laugh, he would, till John and me was often forced to slap his back, and bring it out of his windpipes with a little water
And so, my good and pretty
you was married, and there was we hid up in the church-organ by this husband of yours; for he wouldn't let us out with it then, as was first meant. "No," he says, "she's so unselfish and contented, that I can't afford to be rich yet. I must wait a little longer." Then, when baby was expected, he says, "She is such a cheerful, glorious housewife that I can't afford to be rich yet. I must wait a little longer." Then when baby was born, he says, "She is so much better than she ever was, that I can't afford to be rich yet. I must wait a little longer." And so he goes on and on, till I says outright, "Now, John, if you don't fix a time for setting her up in her own house and home, and letting us walk out of it, I'll turn Informer." Then he says he'll only wait to triumph beyond what we ever thought possible, and to show her to us better than even we ever supposed; and he says, "She shall see me under suspicion of having murdered myself, and YOU shall see how trusting and how true she'll be." Well! Noddy and me agreed to that, and he was right, and here you are, and the horses is in, and the story is done, and God bless you my Beauty, and God bless us all
But IS the story done
Is there no more of it
What more of it should there be, deary
Are you sure you have left nothing out of it
I don't think I have
John dear
you're a good nurse; will you please hold baby
Please I beg your pardon, and I made a small mistake of a word when I took leave of you last. Please I think you are better (not worse) than Hopkins, better (not worse) than Dancer, better (not worse) than Blackberry Jones, better (not worse) than any of them! Please something more
Please I have found out something not yet mentioned. Please I don't believe you are a hard-hearted miser at all, and please I don't believe you ever for one single minute were
O, I understand you now, sir
I want neither you nor any one else to tell me the rest of the story. I can tell it to YOU, now, if you would like to hear it
Can you, my dear
Tell it then
What
When you saw what a greedy little wretch you were the patron of, you determined to show her how much misused and misprized riches could do, and often had done, to spoil people; did you? Not caring what she thought of you (and Goodness knows THAT was of no consequence!) you showed her, in yourself, the most detestable sides of wealth, saying in your own mind, "This shallow creature would never work the truth out of her own weak soul, if she had a hundred years to do it in; but a glaring instance kept before her may open even her eyes and set her thinking." That was what you said to yourself, was it, sir
I never said anything of the sort
Then you ought to have said it, sir
for you must have thought and meant it. You saw that good fortune was turning my stupid head and hardening my silly heart -- was making me grasping, calculating, insolent, insufferable -- and you took the pains to be the dearest and kindest fingerpost that ever was set up anywhere, pointing out the road that I was taking and the end it led to. Confess instantly
John
I wish you'd help me out of this
You can't be heard by counsel, sir
You must speak for yourself. Confess instantly
Well, my dear
the truth is, that when we did go in for the little scheme that my old lady has pinted out, I did put it to John, what did he think of going in for some such general scheme as YOU have pinted out? But I didn't in any way so word it, because I didn't in any way so mean it. I only said to John, wouldn't it be more consistent, me going in for being a reg'lar brown bear respecting him, to go in as a reg'lar brown bear all round
Confess this minute, sir
that you did it to correct and amend me
Certainly, my dear child
I didn't do it to harm you; you may be sure of that. And I did hope it might just hint a caution. Still, it ought to be mentioned that no sooner had my old lady found out John, than John made known to her and me that he had had his eye upon a thankless person by the name of Silas Wegg. Partly for the punishment of which Wegg, by leading him on in a very unhandsome and underhanded game that he was playing, them books that you and me bought so many of together (and, by-the-by, my dear, he wasn't Blackberry Jones, but Blewberry) was read aloud to me by that person of the name of Silas Wegg aforesaid
Still
there remain two things that I cannot understand. Mrs Boffin never supposed any part of the change in Mr Boffin to be real; did she?-- You never did; did you
No
And yet you took it very much to heart
I remember its making you very uneasy, indeed
Ecod, you see Mrs John has a sharp eye, John
You're right, my dear. The old lady nearly blowed us into shivers and smithers, many times
Why
How did that happen, when she was in your secret
Why, it was a weakness in the old lady
and yet, to tell you the whole truth and nothing but the truth, I'm rather proud of it. My dear, the old lady thinks so high of me that she couldn't abear to see and hear me coming out as a reg'lar brown one. Couldn't abear to make-believe as I meant it! In consequence of which, we was everlastingly in danger with her
I assure you, my dear
that on the celebrated day when I made what has since been agreed upon to be my grandest demonstration -- I allude to Mew says the cat, Quack quack says the duck, and Bow-wow-wow says the dog -- I assure you, my dear, that on that celebrated day, them flinty and unbeliving words hit my old lady so hard on my account, that I had to hold her, to prevent her running out after you, and defending me by saying I was playing a part
Never thought of it afore the moment, my dear
When John said, if he had been so happy as to win your affections and possess your heart, it come into my head to turn round upon him with "Win her affections and possess her heart! Mew says the cat, Quack quack says the duck, and Bow-wow-wow says the dog." I couldn't tell you how it come into my head or where from, but it had so much the sound of a rasper that I own to you it astonished myself. I was awful nigh bursting out a laughing though, when it made John stare
You said, my pretty
that there was one other thing you couldn't understand
O yes
but that I never shall be able to understand as long as I live. It is, how John could love me so when I so little deserved it, and how you, Mr and Mrs Boffin, could be so forgetful of yourselves, and take such pains and trouble, to make me a little better, and after all to help him to so unworthy a wife. But I am very very grateful
I have already informed my venerable Ma that I know all about it
though we were hard put to it
Come and look in, Noddy
It looks as if the old man's spirit had found rest at last; don't it
Yes, old lady
And as if his money had turned bright again, after a long long rust in the dark, and was at last a beginning to sparkle in the sunlight
Yes, old lady
And it makes a pretty and a promising picter; don't it
Yes, old lady
A pretty and a hopeful picter? Mew, Quack quack, Bow-wow
Why, you smell rather comfortable here
I AM rather comfortable, sir
You don't use lemon in your business, do you
No, Mr Wegg
When I use it at all, I mostly use it in cobblers' punch
What do you call cobblers' punch
It's difficult to impart the receipt for it, sir
because, however particular you may be in allotting your materials, so much will still depend upon the individual gifts, and there being a feeling thrown into it. But the groundwork is gin
In a Dutch bottle
Very good, sir, very good
Will you partake, sir
Will I partake
Why, of course I will! WILL a man partake, as has been tormented out of his five senses by an everlasting dustman with his head tied up! WILL he, too! As if he wouldn't
Don't let it put you out, Mr Wegg. You don't seem in your usual spirits
If you come to that, you don't seem in your usual spirits
You seem to be setting up for lively
And you've been having your hair cut
Yes, Mr Wegg. But don't let that put you out, either
And I am blest if you ain't getting fat
What are you going to do next
Well, Mr Wegg
I suspect you could hardly guess what I am going to do next
I don't want to guess
All I've got to say is, that it's well for you that the diwision of labour has been what it has been. It's well for you to have had so light a part in this business, when mine has been so heavy. You haven't had YOUR rest broke, I'll be bound
Not at all, sir
Never rested so well in all my life, I thank you
Ah
you should have been me. If you had been me, and had been fretted out of your bed, and your sleep, and your meals, and your mind, for a stretch of months together, you'd have been out of condition and out of sorts
Certainly, it has trained you down, Mr Wegg
Trained you down very low, it has! So weazen and yellow is the kivering upon your bones, that one might almost fancy you had come to give a look-in upon the French gentleman in the corner, instead of me
Why, you've been having the place cleaned up
Yes, Mr Wegg. By the hand of adorable woman
Then what you're going to do next, I suppose, is to get married
That's it, sir
To the old party
Mr Wegg
The lady in question is not a old party
I meant
to the party as formerly objected
Mr Wegg
in a case of so much delicacy, I must trouble you to say what you mean. There are strings that must not be played upon. No sir! Not sounded, unless in the most respectful and tuneful manner. Of such melodious strings is Miss Pleasant Riderhood formed
Then it IS the lady as formerly objected
Sir
I accept the altered phrase. It is the lady as formerly objected
When is it to come off
Mr Wegg
I cannot permit it to be put in the form of a Fight. I must temperately but firmly call upon you, sir, to amend that question
When is the lady
a going to give her 'and where she has already given her 'art
Sir
I again accept the altered phrase, and with pleasure. The lady is a going to give her 'and where she has already given her 'art, next Monday
Then the lady's objection has been met
Mr Wegg
as I did name to you, I think, on a former occasion, if not on former occasions
On former occasions
What
what the nature of the lady's objection was, I may impart, without violating any of the tender confidences since sprung up between the lady and myself, how it has been met, through the kind interference of two good friends of mine: one, previously acquainted with the lady: and one, not. The pint was thrown out, sir, by those two friends when they did me the great service of waiting on the lady to try if a union betwixt the lady and me could not be brought to bear -- the pint, I say, was thrown out by them, sir, whether if, after marriage, I confined myself to the articulation of men, children, and the lower animals, it might not relieve the lady's mind of her feeling respecting being as a lady -- regarded in a bony light. It was a happy thought, sir, and it took root
It would seem, Mr Venus
that you are flush of friends
Pretty well, sir
So-so, sir. Pretty well
However
I wish you joy. One man spends his fortune in one way, and another in another. You are going to try matrimony. I mean to try travelling
Indeed, Mr Wegg
Change of air, sea-scenery, and my natural rest, I hope may bring me round after the persecutions I have undergone from the dustman with his head tied up, which I just now mentioned. The tough job being ended and the Mounds laid low, the hour is come for Boffin to stump up. Would ten to-morrow morning suit you, partner, for finally bringing Boffin's nose to the grindstone
You have had him well under inspection, I hope
Suppose you was just to step round to-night then, and give him orders from me -- I say from me, because he knows I won't be played with -- to be ready with his papers, his accounts, and his cash, at that time in the morning
And as a matter of form, which will be agreeable to your own feelings, before we go out (for I'll walk with you part of the way, though my leg gives under me with weariness), let's have a look at the stock in trade
Boffin at home
He'll do
though it ain't what I call him
Now, I tell you what, young fellow
I won't have it. This won't do for me. I don't want menials. I want Boffin
Be careful what insolent liberties you take in that gentleman's presence
or I will throw you after it
Oh
Very good! I gave directions for YOU to be dismissed. And you ain't gone, ain't you? Oh! We'll look into this presently. Very good
No, nor I ain't gone
Ha, ha, ha, gentlemen
He never thought as I could sleep standing, and often done it when I turned for Mrs Higden! He never thought as I used to give Mrs Higden the Police-news in different voices! But I did lead him a life all through it, gentlemen, I hope I really and truly DID
Oh
one and one is two not dismissed, is it? Bof -- fin! Just let me ask a question. Who set this chap on, in this dress, when the carting began? Who employed this fellow
I say
No fellows, or I'll throw you out of winder
I employed him, Wegg
Oh! You employed him, Boffin? Very good. Mr Venus, we raise our terms, and we can't do better than proceed to business. Bof -- fin! I want the room cleared of these two scum
That's not going to be done, Wegg
Bof -- fin! Not going to be done
Not at your peril
No, Wegg
Not at my peril, and not on any other terms
Mr Venus, will you be so good as hand me over that same dockyment
Certainly, sir
There it is. Having now, sir, parted with it, I wish to make a small observation: not so much because it is anyways necessary, or expresses any new doctrine or discovery, as because it is a comfort to my mind. Silas Wegg, you are a precious old rascal
Silas Wegg
Quite true
and I tested Venus by making him a pretended proposal or two; and I found him on the whole a very honest man, Wegg
So Mr Boffin, in his indulgence, is pleased to say
though in the beginning of this dirt, my hands were not, for a few hours, quite as clean as I could wish. But I hope I made early and full amends
Venus, you did
Certainly, certainly, certainly
Thank you, sir. I am much obliged to you, sir, for all. For your good opinion now, for your way of receiving and encouraging me when I first put myself in communication with you, and for the influence since so kindly brought to bear upon a certain lady, both by yourself and by Mr John Harmon
Everything else between you and me, Mr Wegg
now explains itself, and you can now make out, sir, without further words from me. But totally to prevent any unpleasantness or mistake that might arise on what I consider an important point, to be made quite clear at the close of our acquaintance, I beg the leave of Mr Boffin and Mr John Harmon to repeat an observation which I have already had the pleasure of bringing under your notice. You are a precious old rascal
You are a fool
and I'd have got rid of you before now, if I could have struck out any way of doing it. I have thought it over, I can tell you. You may go, and welcome. You leave the more for me. Because, you know
I am worth my price, and I mean to have it. This getting off is all very well in its way, and it tells with such an anatomical Pump as this one
but it won't do with a Man. I am here to be bought off, and I have named my figure. Now, buy me, or leave me
I'll leave you, Wegg, said Mr Boffin, laughing, 'as far as I am concerned
Bof -- fin
I understand YOUR new-born boldness. I see the brass underneath YOUR silver plating. YOU have got YOUR nose out of joint. Knowing that you've nothing at stake, you can afford to come the independent game. Why, you're just so much smeary glass to see through, you know! But Mr Harmon is in another sitiwation. What Mr Harmon risks, is quite another pair of shoes. Now, I've heerd something lately about this being Mr Harmon -- I make out now, some hints that I've met on that subject in the newspaper -- and I drop you, Bof -- fin, as beneath my notice. I ask Mr Harmon whether he has any idea of the contents of this present paper
It is a will of my late father's, of more recent date than the will proved by Mr Boffin (address whom again, as you have addressed him already, and I'll knock you down), leaving the whole of his property to the Crown
Bight you are
Then
then, I put the question to you, what's this paper worth
Nothing
You scoundrel
You're knocking my head against the wall
I mean to knock your head against the wall
and I'd give a thousand pounds for leave to knock your brains out. Listen, you scoundrel, and look at that Dutch bottle
That Dutch bottle, scoundrel, contained the latest will of the many wills made by my unhappy self-tormenting father. That will gives everything absolutely to my noble benefactor and yours, Mr Boffin, excluding and reviling me, and my sister (then already dead of a broken heart), by name. That Dutch bottle was found by my noble benefactor and yours, after he entered on possession of the estate. That Dutch bottle distressed him beyond measure, because, though I and my sister were both no more, it cast a slur upon our memory which he knew we had done nothing in our miserable youth, to deserve. That Dutch bottle, therefore, he buried in the Mound belonging to him, and there it lay while you, you thankless wretch, were prodding and poking -- often very near it, I dare say. His intention was, that it should never see the light; but he was afraid to destroy it, lest to destroy such a document, even with his great generous motive, might be an offence at law. After the discovery was made here who I was, Mr Boffin, still restless on the subject, told me, upon certain conditions impossible for such a hound as you to appreciate, the secret of that Dutch bottle. I urged upon him the necessity of its being dug up, and the paper being legally produced and established. The first thing you saw him do, and the second thing has been done without your knowledge. Consequently, the paper now rattling in your hand as I shake you -- and I should like to shake the life out of you -- is worth less than the rotten cork of the Dutch bottle, do you understand
I shall make two more short speeches to you, because I hope they will torment you. Your discovery was a genuine discovery (such as it was), for nobody had thought of looking into that place. Neither did we know you had made it, until Venus spoke to Mr Boffin, though I kept you under good observation from my first appearance here, and though Sloppy has long made it the chief occupation and delight of his life, to attend you like your shadow. I tell you this, that you may know we knew enough of you to persuade Mr Boffin to let us lead you on, deluded, to the last possible moment, in order that your disappointment might be the heaviest possible disappointment. That's the first short speech, do you understand
Now, scoundrel
I am going to finish. You supposed me just now, to be the possessor of my father's property.-- So I am. But through any act of my father's, or by any right I have? No. Through the munificence of Mr Boffin. The conditions that he made with me, before parting with the secret of the Dutch bottle, were, that I should take the fortune, and that he should take his Mound and no more. I owe everything I possess, solely to the disinterestedness, uprightness, tenderness, goodness (there are no words to satisfy me) of Mr and Mrs Boffin. And when, knowing what I knew, I saw such a mud-worm as you presume to rise in this house against this noble soul, the wonder is
that I didn't try to twist your head off, and fling THAT out of window! So. That's the last short speech, do you understand
I am sorry, Wegg
that my old lady and I can't have a better opinion of you than the bad one we are forced to entertain. But I shouldn't like to leave you, after all said and done, worse off in life than I found you. Therefore say in a word, before we part, what it'll cost to set you up in another stall
And in another place
You don't come outside these windows
Mr Boffin
when I first had the honour of making your acquaintance, I had got together a collection of ballads which was, I may say, above price
Then they can't be paid for
and you had better not try, my dear sir
Pardon me, Mr Boffin
I was putting the case to you, who, if my senses did not deceive me, put the case to me. I had a very choice collection of ballads, and there was a new stock of gingerbread in the tin box. I say no more, but would rather leave it to you
But it's difficult to name what's right
and I don't want to go beyond what's right, because you really have turned out such a very bad fellow. So artful, and so ungrateful you have been, Wegg; for when did I ever injure you
There was also
a errand connection, in which I was much respected. But I would not wish to be deemed covetous, and I would rather leave it to you, Mr Boffin
Upon my word, I don't know what to put it at
There was likewise
a pair of trestles, for which alone a Irish person, who was deemed a judge of trestles, offered five and six -- a sum I would not hear of, for I should have lost by it- -and there was a stool, a umbrella, a clothes-horse, and a tray. But I leave it to you, Mr Boffin
There was, further, Miss Elizabeth, Master George, Aunt Jane, and Uncle Parker. Ah! When a man thinks of the loss of such patronage as that; when a man finds so fair a garden rooted up by pigs; he finds it hard indeed, without going high, to work it into money. But I leave it wholly to you, sir
Leading on has been mentioned
and it's not easy to say how far the tone of my mind may have been lowered by unwholesome reading on the subject of Misers, when you was leading me and others on to think you one yourself, sir. All I can say is, that I felt my tone of mind a lowering at the time. And how can a man put a price upon his mind! There was likewise a hat just now. But I leave the ole to you, Mr Boffin
Come
Here's a couple of pound
In justice to myself, I couldn't take it, sir
Beg your pardon, governor! By your leave
What place may this be
This is a school
Where young folks learns wot's right
Beg your pardon, governor! By your leave! But who teaches this school
I do
You're the master, are you, learned governor
Yes. I am the master
And a lovely thing it must be
fur to learn young folks wot's right, and fur to know wot THEY know wot you do it. Beg your pardon, learned governor! By your leave!-- That there black board; wot's it for
It is for drawing on, or writing on
Is it though
Who'd have thought it, from the looks on it! WOULD you be so kind as write your name upon it, learned governor
I ain't a learned character myself
but I do admire learning in others. I should dearly like to hear these here young folks read that there name off, from the writing
Bradley Headstone
No
You don't mean it? Headstone! Why, that's in a churchyard. Hooroar for another turn
Bradley Headstone
I've got it now
Bradley. I see. Chris'en name, Bradley sim'lar to Roger which is my own. Eh? Fam'ly name, Headstone, sim'lar to Riderhood which is my own. Eh
Yes
Might you be acquainted, learned governor
ud pull down in a scale about your own weight, answering to a name sounding summat like Totherest
I think I know the man you mean
I thought you knowed the man I mean, learned governor. I want the man
Do you suppose he is here
Begging your pardon, learned governor, and by your leave
how could I suppose he's here, when there's nobody here but you, and me, and these young lambs wot you're a learning on? But he is most excellent company, that man, and I want him to come and see me at my Lock, up the river
I'll tell him so
D'ye think he'll come
I am sure he will
Having got your word for him
I shall count upon him. P'raps you'd so fur obleege me, learned governor, as tell him that if he don't come precious soon, I'll look him up
He shall know it
Thankee. As I says a while ago
though not a learned character my own self, I do admire learning in others, to be sure! Being here and having met with your kind attention, Master, might I, afore I go, ask a question of these here young lambs of yourn
If it is in the way of school
you may
Oh! It's in the way of school
I'll pound it, Master, to be in the way of school. Wot's the diwisions of water, my lambs? Wot sorts of water is there on the land
Seas, rivers, lakes, and ponds
Seas, rivers, lakes, and ponds
They've got all the lot, Master! Blowed if I shouldn't have left out lakes, never having clapped eyes upon one, to my knowledge. Seas, rivers, lakes, and ponds. Wot is it, lambs, as they ketches in seas, rivers, lakes, and ponds
Fish
Good a-gin
But wot else is it, my lambs, as they sometimes ketches in rivers
Weed
Good agin
But it ain't weed neither. You'll never guess, my dears. Wot is it, besides fish, as they sometimes ketches in rivers? Well! I'll tell you. It's suits o' clothes
Leastways, lambs
that's wot I my own self sometimes ketches in rivers. For strike me blind, my lambs, if I didn't ketch in a river the wery bundle under my arm
I ask your pardon, learned governor
tain't fair to the lambs, I know. It wos a bit of fun of mine. But upon my soul I drawed this here bundle out of a river! It's a Bargeman's suit of clothes. You see, it had been sunk there by the man as wore it, and I got it up
How do you know it was sunk by the man who wore it
Cause I see him do it
A heap of thanks, Master
for bestowing so much of your time, and of the lambses' time, upon a man as hasn't got no other recommendation to you than being a honest man. Wishing to see at my Lock up the river, the person as we've spoke of, and as you've answered for, I takes my leave of the lambs and of their learned governor both
Kindly take care of these for me
Not a smoker, I think
No
You don't need to be told I am here
Who is to begin
I'll begin
when I've smoked this here pipe out
I'll begin
Bradley Headstone, Master, if you wish it
Wish it? I wish to know what you want with me
And so you shall
Why, where's your watch
I have left it behind
I want it. But it can be fetched. I've took a fancy to it
I want it
and I mean to have it
That is what you want of me, is it
No
it's on'y part of what I want of you. I want money of you
Anything else
Everythink else
Answer me like that, and I won't talk to you at all
Don't so much as look at me like that, or I won't talk to you at all
But, instead of talking, I'll bring my hand down upon you with all its weight
and smash you
Go on
O! I'm a going on. Don't you fear but I'll go on full-fast enough for you, and fur enough for you, without your telling. Look here, Bradley Headstone, Master. You might have split the T'other governor to chips and wedges, without my caring, except that I might have come upon you for a glass or so now and then. Else why have to do with you at all? But when you copied my clothes, and when you copied my neckhankercher, and when you shook blood upon me after you had done the trick, you did wot I'll be paid for and paid heavy for. If it come to be throw'd upon you, you was to be ready to throw it upon me, was you? Where else but in Plashwater Weir Mill Lock was there a man dressed according as described? Where else but in Plashwater Weir Mill Lock was there a man as had had words with him coming through in his boat? Look at the Lock-keeper in Plashwater Weir Mill Lock, in them same answering clothes and with that same answering red neckhankercher, and see whether his clothes happens to be bloody or not. Yes, they do happen to be bloody. Ah, you sly devil
But two could play at your game
and I played it long ago; long afore you tried your clumsy hand at it; in days when you hadn't begun croaking your lecters or what not in your school. I know to a figure how you done it. Where you stole away, I could steal away arter you, and do it knowinger than you. I know how you come away from London in your own clothes, and where you changed your clothes, and hid your clothes. I see you with my own eyes take your own clothes from their hiding-place among them felled trees, and take a dip in the river to account for your dressing yourself, to any one as might come by. I see you rise up Bradley Headstone, Master, where you sat down Bargeman. I see you pitch your Bargeman's bundle into the river. I hooked your Bargeman's bundle out of the river. I've got your Bargeman's clothes, tore this way and that way with the scuffle, stained green with the grass, and spattered all over with what bust from the blows. I've got them, and I've got you. I don't care a curse for the T'other governor, alive or dead, but I care a many curses for my own self. And as you laid your plots agin me and was a sly devil agin me, I'll be paid for it -- I'll be paid for it -- I'll be paid for it -- till I've drained you dry
You can't get blood out of a stone, Riderhood
I can get money out of a schoolmaster though
You can't get out of me what is not in me. You can't wrest from me what I have not got. Mine is but a poor calling. You have had more than two guineas from me, already. Do you know how long it has taken me (allowing for a long and arduous training) to earn such a sum
I don't know, nor I don't care. Yours is a 'spectable calling. To save your 'spectability, it's worth your while to pawn every article of clothes you've got, sell every stick in your house, and beg and borrow every penny you can get trusted with. When you've done that and handed over, I'll leave you. Not afore
How do you mean, you'll leave me
I mean as I'll keep you company, wherever you go, when you go away from here. Let the Lock take care of itself. I'll take care of you, once I've got you
Riderhood
Say I part with this, which is all the money I have; say I let you have my watch; say that every quarter, when I draw my salary, I pay you a certain portion of it
Say nothink of the sort
You've got away once, and I won't run the chance agin. I've had trouble enough to find you, and shouldn't have found you, if I hadn't seen you slipping along the street overnight, and watched you till you was safe housed. I'll have one settlement with you for good and all
Riderhood, I am a man who has lived a retired life. I have no resources beyond myself. I have absolutely no friends
That's a lie
You've got one friend as I knows of; one as is good for a Savings-Bank book, or I'm a blue monkey
I went into the wrong shop, fust, last Thursday
Found myself among the young ladies, by George! Over the young ladies, I see a Missis. That Missis is sweet enough upon you, Master, to sell herself up, slap, to get you out of trouble. Make her do it then
You spoke to the mistress, did you
Poof! Yes
I spoke to her. I didn't say much to her. She was put in a fluster by my dropping in among the young ladies (I never did set up for a lady's man), and she took me into her parlour to hope as there was nothink wrong. I tells her, "O no, nothink wrong. The master's my wery good friend." But I see how the land laid, and that she was comfortable off
She couldn't live more handy to you than she does
and when I goes home with you (as of course I am a going), I recommend you to clean her out without loss of time. You can marry her, arter you and me have come to a settlement. She's nice-looking, and I know you can't be keeping company with no one else, having been so lately disapinted in another quarter
Hadn't us better have a bit o' breakfast afore we start
It ain't good to freeze a empty stomach, Master
Come, come, Master
This is a dry game. And where's the good of it? You can't get rid of me, except by coming to a settlement. I am a going along with you wherever you go
Why, there's even less sense in this move than t'other
The Weir's there, and you'll have to come back, you know
Being brought here
I'll turn it to some use by changing my gates
You'd better by far be reasonable, Bradley Headstone, Master
or I'll drain you all the dryer for it, when we do settle.-- Ah! Would you
Let go
or I'll get my knife out and slash you wherever I can cut you. Let go
Let go
Stop! What are you trying at? You can't drown Me. Ain't I told you that the man as has come through drowning can never be drowned? I can't be drowned
I can be
I am resolved to be. I'll hold you living, and I'll hold you dead. Come down
Onward
I wish to goodness, Ma
that you'd loll a little
How
Loll
Yes, Ma
I hope
I am incapable of it
I am sure you look so, Ma. But why one should go out to dine with one's own daughter or sister, as if one's under-petticoat was a blackboard, I do NOT understand
Neither do I understand
how a young lady can mention the garment in the name of which you have indulged. I blush for you
Thank you, Ma
but I can do it for myself, I am obliged to you, when there's any occasion
After all, you know, ma'am, we know it's there
We know it's there
Really, George
I must say that I don't understand your allusions, and that I think you might be more delicate and less personal
Go it
Oh yes! Go it, Miss Lavinia Wilfer
What you may mean, George Sampson, by your omnibus-driving expressions, I cannot pretend to imagine. Neither
Mr George Sampson, do I wish to imagine. It is enough for me to know in my own heart that I am not going to
Oh yes
Thus it ever is. I never
If you mean to say
Lavinia
said Mr Sampson, 'to the glittering halls with which I can never compete, and then taunt me with my moderate salary? Is it generous? Is it kind
Mr Sampson
I cannot permit you to misrepresent the intentions of a child of mine
Let him alone, Ma
It is indifferent to me what he says or does
Nay, Lavinia
this touches the blood of the family. If Mr George Sampson attributes, even to my youngest daughter
I don't see why you should use the word "even", Ma
because I am quite as important as any of the others
Peace
I repeat, if Mr George Sampson attributes, to my youngest daughter, grovelling motives, he attributes them equally to the mother of my youngest daughter. That mother repudiates them, and demands of Mr George Sampson, as a youth of honour, what he WOULD have? I may be mistaken -- nothing is more likely -- but Mr George Sampson
appears to me to be seated in a first-class equipage. Mr George Sampson appears to me to be on his way, by his own admission, to a residence that may be termed Palatial. Mr George Sampson appears to me to be invited to participate in the -- shall I say the -- Elevation which has descended on the family with which he is ambitious, shall I say to Mingle? Whence, then, this tone on Mr Sampson's part
It is only, ma'am
because, in a pecuniary sense, I am painfully conscious of my unworthiness. Lavinia is now highly connected. Can I hope that she will still remain the same Lavinia as of old? And is it not pardonable if I feel sensitive, when I see a disposition on her part to take me up short
If you are not satisfied with your position, sir
we can set you down at any turning you may please to indicate to my sister's coachman
Dearest Lavinia
I adore you
Then if you can't do it in a more agreeable manner
I wish you wouldn't
I also
respect you, ma'am, to an extent which must ever be below your merits, I am well aware, but still up to an uncommon mark. Bear with a wretch, Lavinia, bear with a wretch, ma'am, who feels the noble sacrifices you make for him, but is goaded almost to madness
when he thinks of competing with the rich and influential
When you have to compete with the rich and influential, it will probably be mentioned to you
in good time. At least, it will if the case is MY case
Notwithstanding all these surroundings, I am yours as yet, George. How long it may last is another question, but I am yours as yet
Exotics, George
An ormolu clock, George
Come in, sir
And who may you be
Oh indeed
Ah! I have been looking forward to knowing you. I heard of your distinguishing yourself
Did you, Miss
I am sure I am glad to hear it, but I don't know how
Pitching somebody into a mud-cart
Oh! That way
Yes, Miss
Bless us
Don't open your mouth as wide as that, young man, or it'll catch so, and not shut again some day
Why, you're like the giant
when he came home in the land of Beanstalk, and wanted Jack for supper
Was he good-looking, Miss
No
Ugly
This is a pretty place, Miss
Glad you think so, sir
And what do you think of Me
Out with it
Don't you think me a queer little comicality
Oh
What a lot, and what a colour
You don't live here alone; do you, Miss
No
Live here with my fairy godmother
With
with who did you say, Miss
Well
With my second father. Or with my first, for that matter
If you had known a poor child I used to have here
you'd have understood me. But you didn't, and you can't. All the better
You must have been taught a long time
before you came to work so neatly, Miss, and with such a pretty taste
Never was taught a stitch, young man
Just gobbled and gobbled, till I found out how to do it. Badly enough at first, but better now
And here have I
been a learning and a learning, and here has Mr Boffin been a paying and a paying, ever so long
I have heard what your trade is
it's cabinet-making
Now that the Mounds is done with, it is. I'll tell you what, Miss. I should like to make you something
Much obliged. But what
I could make you
I could make you a handy set of nests to lay the dolls in. Or I could make you a handy little set of drawers, to keep your silks and threads and scraps in. Or I could turn you a rare handle for that crutch-stick, if it belongs to him you call your father
It belongs to me
I am lame
I am very glad it's yours, because I'd rather ornament it for you than for any one else. Please may I look at it
But you had better see me use it
This is the way. Hoppetty, Kicketty, Pep-peg-peg. Not pretty; is it
It seems to me that you hardly want it at all
Thank you
And as concerning the nests and the drawers
why, it would be a real pleasure to me. I've heerd tell that you can sing most beautiful; and I should be better paid with a song than with any money, for I always loved the likes of that, and often giv' Mrs Higden and Johnny a comic song myself, with "Spoken" in it. Though that's not your sort, I'll wager
You are a very kind young man
a really kind young man. I accept your offer.-- I suppose He won't mind
and if he does, he may
Meaning him that you call your father, Miss
No, no
Him, Him, Him
Him, him, him
Him who is coming to court and marry me
Dear me, how slow you are
Oh! HIM
I never thought of him. When is he coming, Miss
What a question
How should I know
Where is he coming from, Miss
Why, good gracious, how can I tell! He is coming from somewhere or other, I suppose, and he is coming some day or other, I suppose. I don't know any more about him, at present
There, there, there
For goodness' sake, stop, Giant, or I shall be swallowed up alive, before I know it. And to this minute you haven't said what you've come for
I have come for little Miss Harmonses doll
I thought as much
and here is little Miss Harmonses doll waiting for you. She's folded up in silver paper, you see, as if she was wrapped from head to foot in new Bank notes. Take care of her, and there's my hand, and thank you again
I'll take more care of her than if she was a gold image
and there's both MY hands, Miss, and I'll soon come back again
I make no protestations
who does, who means them!-- I have made a resolution
But would you believe, Bella
that on our wedding day he told me he almost thought the best thing he could do, was to die
As I didn't do it, Lizzie
I'll do that better thing you suggested -- for your sake
Dear old fellow
you couldn't have come at a better time, for my mind is full, and I want to empty it. First, of my present, before I touch upon my future. M. R. F., who is a much younger cavalier than I, and a professed admirer of beauty, was so affable as to remark the other day (he paid us a visit of two days up the river there, and much objected to the accommodation of the hotel), that Lizzie ought to have her portrait painted. Which, coming from M. R. F., may be considered equivalent to a melodramatic blessing
You are getting well
Really
I mean it. When M. R. F. said that, and followed it up by rolling the claret (for which he called, and I paid), in his mouth, and saying, "My dear son, why do you drink this trash?" it was tantamount in him -- to a paternal benediction on our union, accompanied with a gush of tears. The coolness of M. R. F. is not to be measured by ordinary standards
True enough
That's all
that I shall ever hear from M. R. F. on the subject, and he will continue to saunter through the world with his hat on one side. My marriage being thus solemnly recognized at the family altar, I have no further trouble on that score. Next, you really have done wonders for me, Mortimer, in easing my money-perplexities, and with such a guardian and steward beside me, as the preserver of my life (I am hardly strong yet, you see, for I am not man enough to refer to her without a trembling voice -- she is so inexpressibly dear to me, Mortimer!), the little that I can call my own will be more than it ever has been. It need be more, for you know what it always has been in my hands. Nothing
Worse than nothing, I fancy, Eugene. My own small income (I devoutly wish that my grandfather had left it to the Ocean rather than to me!) has been an effective Something, in the way of preventing me from turning to at Anything. And I think yours has been much the same
There spake the voice of wisdom
We are shepherds both. In turning to at last, we turn to in earnest. Let us say no more of that, for a few years to come. Now, I have had an idea, Mortimer, of taking myself and my wife to one of the colonies, and working at my vocation there
I should be lost without you, Eugene; but you may be right
No
Not right. Wrong
You think this thumped head of mine is excited
not so, believe me. I can say to you of the healthful music of my pulse what Hamlet said of his. My blood is up, but wholesomely up, when I think of it. Tell me! Shall I turn coward to Lizzie, and sneak away with her, as if I were ashamed of her! Where would your friend's part in this world be, Mortimer, if she had turned coward to him, and on immeasurably better occasion
Honourable and stanch
And yet, Eugene
And yet what, Mortimer
And yet, are you sure that you might not feel (for her sake, I say for her sake) any slight coldness towards her on the part of -- Society
O! You and I may well stumble at the word
Do we mean our Tippins
Perhaps we do
Faith, we DO
We may hide behind the bush and beat about it, but we DO! Now, my wife is something nearer to my heart, Mortimer, than Tippins is, and I owe her a little more than I owe to Tippins, and I am rather prouder of her than I ever was of Tippins. Therefore, I will fight it out to the last gasp, with her and for her, here, in the open field. When I hide her, or strike for her, faint-heartedly, in a hole or a corner, do you whom I love next best upon earth, tell me what I shall most righteously deserve to be told:-- that she would have done well to turn me over with her foot that night when I lay bleeding to death, and spat in my dastard face
Eugene, dear, you made me go out, but I ought to have stayed with you. You are more flushed than you have been for many days. What have you been doing
Nothing
but looking forward to your coming back
And talking to Mr Lightwood
But it cannot have been Society that disturbed you
Faith, my dear love
I rather think it WAS Society though
We know what Russia means, sir
we know what France wants; we see what America is up to; but we know what England is. That's enough for us
Long banished Robinson Crusoe
how did you leave the Island
Thank you
It made no complaint of being in pain anywhere
Say, how did you leave the savages
They were becoming civilized when I left Juan Fernandez
At least they were eating one another, which looked like it
Tormentor
You know what I mean, and you trifle with my impatience. Tell me something, immediately, about the married pair. You were at the wedding
Was I, by-the-by
So I was
How was the bride dressed? In rowing costume
I hope she steered herself, skiffed herself, paddled herself, larboarded and starboarded herself, or whatever the technical term may be, to the ceremony
However she got to it, she graced it
Graced it! Take care of me if I faint, Veneering. He means to tell us, that a horrid female waterman is graceful
Pardon me. I mean to tell you nothing, Lady Tippins
You shall not escape me in this way, you morose backwoodsman
You shall not evade the question, to screen your friend Eugene, who has made this exhibition of himself. The knowledge shall be brought home to you that such a ridiculous affair is condemned by the voice of Society. My dear Mrs Veneering, do let us resolve ourselves into a Committee of the whole House on the subject
Oh yes! Do let us resolve ourselves into a Committee of the whole House! So delicious
As many as are of that opinion, say Aye,-- contrary, No -- the Ayes have it
Now, I am Chairwoman of Committees
What spirits she has
And this
is a Committee of the whole House to what-you-may-call-it -- elicit, I suppose -- the voice of Society. The question before the Committee is, whether a young man of very fair family, good appearance, and some talent, makes a fool or a wise man of himself in marrying a female waterman, turned factory girl
Hardly so, I think
I take the question to be, whether such a man as you describe, Lady Tippins, does right or wrong in marrying a brave woman (I say nothing of her beauty), who has saved his life, with a wonderful energy and address; whom he knows to be virtuous, and possessed of remarkable qualities; whom he has long admired, and who is deeply attached to him
But, excuse me
was this young woman ever a female waterman
Never. But she sometimes rowed in a boat with her father, I believe
And now, Mr Lightwood, was she ever
a factory girl
Never. But she had some employment in a paper mill, I believe
Oh dear
Oh dear
Oh dear
Then all I have to say is
that my gorge rises against such a marriage -- that it offends and disgusts me -- that it makes me sick -- and that I desire to know no more about it
Now I wonder
whether YOU are the Voice of Society
Hear, hear, hear
Your opinion of this MESALLIANCE, honourable colleagues of the honourable member who has just sat down
Now I wonder
whether you are the Voice
No
no money
Madness and moonshine
A man may do anything lawful, for money. But for no money!-- Bosh
I am disposed to think
that this is a question of the feelings of a gentleman
A gentleman can have no feelings who contracts such a marriage
Pardon me, sir
I don't agree with you. If this gentleman's feelings of gratitude, of respect, of admiration, and affection, induced him (as I presume they did) to marry this lady
This lady
Sir
YOU repeat the word; I repeat the word. This lady. What else would you call her, if the gentleman were present
I say
if such feelings on the part of this gentleman, induced this gentleman to marry this lady, I think he is the greater gentleman for the action, and makes her the greater lady. I beg to say, that when I use the word, gentleman, I use it in the sense in which the degree may be attained by any man. The feelings of a gentleman I hold sacred, and I confess I am not comfortable when they are made the subject of sport or general discussion
I should like to know
whether your noble relation would be of your opinion
Mr Podsnap
permit me. He might be, or he might not be. I cannot say. But, I could not allow even him to dictate to me on a point of great delicacy, on which I feel very strongly
I wonder whether you are the Voice
</text>
