<text>
Let me see the child, and die
Oh, you must not talk about dying yet
Lor bless her dear heart, no
Lor bless her dear heart, when she has lived as long as I have, sir, and had thirteen children of her own, and all on 'em dead except two, and them in the wurkus with me, she'll know better than to take on in that way, bless her dear heart! Think what it is to be a mother, there's a dear young lamb do
It's all over, Mrs. Thingummy
Ah, poor dear, so it is
Poor dear
You needn't mind sending up to me, if the child cries, nurse
It's very likely it _will_ be troublesome. Give it a little gruel if it is
She was a good-looking girl, too; where did she come from
She was brought here last night
by the overseer's order. She was found lying in the street. She had walked some distance, for her shoes were worn to pieces; but where she came from, or where she was going to, nobody knows
The old story
no wedding-ring, I see. Ah! Good-night
farmed
Goodness gracious! Is that you, Mr. Bumble, sir
Susan, take Oliver and them two brats upstairs, and wash 'em directly.)-- My heart alive! Mr. Bumble, how glad I am to see you, sure-ly
Lor, only think
only think of that! That I should have forgotten that the gate was bolted on the inside, on account of them dear children! Walk in sir; walk in, pray, Mr. Bumble, do, sir
Do you think this respectful or proper conduct, Mrs. Mann
to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden-gate, when they come here upon porochial business with the porochial orphans? Are you aweer, Mrs. Mann, that you are, as I may say, a porochial delegate, and a stipendiary
I'm sure Mr. Bumble, that I was only a telling one or two of the dear children as is so fond of you, that it was you a coming
Well, well, Mrs. Mann
it may be as you say; it may be. Lead the way in, Mrs. Mann, for I come on business, and have something to say
Now don't you be offended at what I'm a going to say
You've had a long walk, you know, or I wouldn't mention it. Now, will you take a little drop of somethink, Mr. Bumble
Not a drop. Nor a drop
I think you will
Just a leetle drop, with a little cold water, and a lump of sugar
Now, just a leetle drop
What is it
Why, it's what I'm obliged to keep a little of in the house, to put into the blessed infants' Daffy, when they ain't well, Mr. Bumble
It's gin. I'll not deceive you, Mr. B. It's gin
Do you give the children Daffy, Mrs. Mann
Ah, bless 'em, that I do, dear as it is
I couldn't see 'em suffer before my very eyes, you know sir
no, you could not. You are a humane woman, Mrs. Mann
I shall take a early opportunity of mentioning it to the board, Mrs. Mann
You feel as a mother, Mrs. Mann
And now about business
The child that was half-baptized Oliver Twist, is nine year old to-day
Bless him
And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound, which was afterwards increased to twenty pound. Notwithstanding the most superlative, and, I may say, supernat'ral exertions on the part of this parish
we have never been able to discover who is his father, or what was his mother's settlement, name, or con -- dition
How comes he to have any name at all, then
I inwented it
You, Mr. Bumble
I, Mrs. Mann. We name our fondlings in alphabetical order. The last was a S,-- Swubble, I named him. This was a T,-- Twist, I named _him_. The next one comes will be Unwin, and the next Vilkins. I have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, when we come to Z
Why, you're quite a literary character, sir
Well, well
perhaps I may be. Perhaps I may be, Mrs. Mann
Oliver being now too old to remain here, the board have determined to have him back into the house. I have come out myself to take him there. So let me see him at once
I'll fetch him directly
Make a bow to the gentleman, Oliver
Will you go along with me, Oliver
Will she go with me
No, she can't
But she'll come and see you sometimes
nearly there
Bow to the board
What's your name, boy
Boy
listen to me. You know you're an orphan, I suppose
What's that, sir
The boy _is_ a fool -- I thought he was
Hush
You know you've got no father or mother, and that you were brought up by the parish, don't you
Yes, sir
What are you crying for
I hope you say your prayers every night
and pray for the people who feed you, and take care of you -- like a Christian
Yes, sir
Well! You have come here to be educated, and taught a useful trade
Oho
we are the fellows to set this to rights; we'll stop it all, in no time
Please, sir, I want some more
What
Please, sir
I want some more
Mr. Limbkins, I beg your pardon, sir! Oliver Twist has asked for more
For _more_
Compose yourself, Bumble, and answer me distinctly. Do I understand that he asked for more, after he had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary
He did, sir
That boy will be hung
I know that boy will be hung
I never was more convinced of anything in my life
I never was more convinced of anything in my life, than I am that that boy will come to be hung
the system
Wo -- o
prentis
Ay, my man
What of him
If the parish vould like him to learn a right pleasant trade, in a good 'spectable chimbley-sweepin' bisness
prentis, and I am ready to take him
Walk in
It's a nasty trade
Young boys have been smothered in chimneys before now
That's acause they damped the straw afore they lit it in the chimbley to make 'em come down again
that's all smoke, and no blaze; vereas smoke ain't o' no use at all in making a boy come down, for it only sinds him to sleep, and that's wot he likes. Boys is wery obstinit, and wery lazy, Gen'l'men, and there's nothink like a good hot blaze to make 'em come down vith a run. It's humane too, gen'l'men, acause, even if they've stuck in the chimbley, roasting their feet makes 'em struggle to hextricate theirselves
saving of expenditure
have a printed report published
We have considered your proposition, and we don't approve of it
Not at all
Decidedly not
So you won't let me have him, gen'l'men
No
at least, as it's a nasty business, we think you ought to take something less than the premium we offered
What'll you give, gen'l'men? Come! Don't be too hard on a poor man. What'll you give
I should say, three pound ten was plenty
Ten shillings too much
Come
say four pound, gen'l'men. Say four pound, and you've got rid of him for good and all. There
Three pound ten
Come! I'll split the diff'erence, gen'l'men
Three pound fifteen
Not a farthing more
You're desperate hard upon me, gen'l'men
Pooh! pooh! nonsense
He'd be cheap with nothing at all, as a premium. Take him, you silly fellow! He's just the boy for you. He wants the stick, now and then: it'll do him good; and his board needn't come very expensive, for he hasn't been overfed since he was born. Ha! ha! ha
Don't make your eyes red, Oliver, but eat your food and be thankful
prentice of, Oliver
A prentice, sir
Yes, Oliver
prentice' you: and to set you up in life, and make a man of you: although the expense to the parish is three pound ten!-- three pound ten, Oliver!-- seventy shillins -- one hundred and forty sixpences!-- and all for a naughty orphan which nobody can't love
Come
Come, Oliver! Wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket, and don't cry into your gruel; that's a very foolish action, Oliver
Now, Oliver, my dear, come to the gentleman
Mind what I told you, you young rascal
This is the boy, your worship
Oh, is this the boy
This is him, sir
Bow to the magistrate, my dear
Well
I suppose he's fond of chimney-sweeping
He doats on it, your worship
And he _will_ be a sweep, will he
If we was to bind him to any other trade to-morrow, he'd run away simultaneous, your worship
And this man that's to be his master -- you, sir -- you'll treat him well, and feed him, and do all that sort of thing, will you
When I says I will, I means I will
You're a rough speaker, my friend, but you look an honest, open-hearted man
I hope I am, sir
I have no doubt you are, my friend
My boy
you look pale and alarmed. What is the matter
Stand a little away from him, Beadle
Now, boy, tell us what's the matter: don't be afraid
Well
Well! of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see, Oliver, you are one of the most bare-facedest
Hold your tongue, Beadle
I beg your worship's pardon
Did your worship speak to me
Yes. Hold your tongue
We refuse to sanction these indentures
I hope
I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct, on the unsupported testimony of a child
The magistrates are not called upon to pronounce any opinion on the matter
Take the boy back to the workhouse, and treat him kindly. He seems to want it
I have taken the measure of the two women that died last night, Mr. Bumble
You'll make your fortune, Mr. Sowerberry
I say you'll make your fortune, Mr. Sowerberry
Think so
The prices allowed by the board are very small, Mr. Bumble
So are the coffins
Well, well, Mr. Bumble
there's no denying that, since the new system of feeding has come in, the coffins are something narrower and more shallow than they used to be; but we must have some profit, Mr. Bumble. Well-seasoned timber is an expensive article, sir; and all the iron handles come, by canal, from Birmingham
Well, well
every trade has its drawbacks. A fair profit is, of course, allowable
Of course, of course
and if I don't get a profit upon this or that particular article, why, I make it up in the long-run, you see -- he! he! he
Just so
Though I must say
though I must say, Mr. Bumble, that I have to contend against one very great disadvantage: which is, that all the stout people go off the quickest. The people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years, are the first to sink when they come into the house; and let me tell you, Mr. Bumble, that three or four inches over one's calculation makes a great hole in one's profits: especially when one has a family to provide for, sir
By the bye
prentis, who is at present a dead-weight; a millstone, as I may say, round the porochial throat? Liberal terms, Mr. Sowerberry, liberal terms
Gadso
that's just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about. You know -- dear me, what a very elegant button this is, Mr. Bumble! I never noticed it before
Yes, I think it rather pretty
The die is the same as the porochial seal -- the Good Samaritan healing the sick and bruised man. The board presented it to me on Newyear's morning, Mr. Sowerberry. I put it on, I remember, for the first time, to attend the inquest on that reduced tradesman, who died in a doorway at midnight
I recollect
The jury brought it in, "Died from exposure to the cold, and want of the common necessaries of life," didn't they
And they made it a special verdict, I think
by adding some words to the effect, that if the relieving officer had
Tush! Foolery
If the board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurymen talk, they'd have enough to do
Very true
they would indeed
Juries
juries is ineddicated, vulgar, grovelling wretches
So they are
They haven't no more philosophy nor political economy about 'em than that
No more they have
I despise 'em
So do I
And I only wish we'd a jury of the independent sort, in the house for a week or two
the rules and regulations of the board would soon bring their spirit down for 'em
Let 'em alone for that
Well; what about the boy
Oh
why, you know, Mr. Bumble, I pay a good deal towards the poor's rates
Hem
Well
Well
I was thinking that if I pay so much towards 'em, I've a right to get as much out of 'em as I can, Mr. Bumble; and so -- I think I'll take the boy myself
upon liking
Oliver
Yes, sir
Pull that cap off your eyes, and hold up your head, sir
Well
Well! Of _all_ the ungratefullest, and worst-disposed boys as ever I see, Oliver, you are the
No, no, sir
no, no, sir; I will be good indeed; indeed, indeed I will, sir! I am a very little boy, sir; and it is so -- so
So what
So lonely, sir! So very lonely
Everybody hates me. Oh! sir, don't, don't pray be cross to me
that troublesome cough
Aha
is that you, Bumble
No one else, Mr. Sowerberry
Here! I've brought the boy
Oh! that's the boy, is it
Mrs. Sowerberry, will you have the goodness to come here a moment, my dear
My dear
this is the boy from the workhouse that I told you of
Dear me
he's very small
Why, he _is_ rather small
he is small. There's no denying it. But he'll grow, Mrs. Sowerberry -- he'll grow
Ah! I dare say he will
on our victuals and our drink. I see no saving in parish children, not I; for they always cost more to keep, than they're worth. However, men always think they know best. There! Get downstairs, little bag o' bones
Here, Charlotte
give this boy some of the cold bits that were put by for Trip. He hasn't come home since the morning, so he may go without 'em. I dare say the boy isn't too dainty to eat 'em -- are you, boy
Well
have you done
Then come with me
your bed's under the counter. You don't mind sleeping among the coffins, I suppose? But it doesn't much matter whether you do or don't, for you can't sleep anywhere else. Come; don't keep me here all night
Open the door, will yer
I will, directly, sir
I suppose yer the new boy, ain't yer
Yes, sir
How old are yer
Ten, sir
Then I'll whop yer when I get in
I beg your pardon, sir
did you knock
I kicked
Did you want a coffin, sir
No, sir
I'm Mister Noah Claypole
and you're under me. Take down the shutters, yer idle young ruffian
he'd catch it
caught it
Come near the fire, Noah
I saved a nice little bit of bacon for you from master's breakfast. Oliver, shut that door at Mister Noah's back, and take them bits that I've put out on the cover of the bread-pan. There's your tea; take it away to that box, and drink it there, and make haste, for they'll want you to mind the shop. D'ye hear
Lor, Noah
what a rum creature you are! Why don't you let the boy alone
Let him alone
Why everybody lets him alone enough, for the matter of that. Neither his father nor his mother will ever interfere with him. All his relations let him have his own way pretty well. Eh, Charlotte? He! he! he
Oh, you queer soul
leathers
My dear
Well
Nothing, my dear, nothing
Ugh, you brute
Not at all, my dear
I thought you didn't want to hear, my dear. I was only going to say
Oh, don't tell me what you were going to say
I am nobody; don't consult me, pray. _I_ don't want to intrude upon your secrets
But, my dear
I want to ask your advice
No, no, don't ask mine
ask somebody else's
It's only about young Twist, my dear
A very good-looking boy, that, my dear
He need be, for he eats enough
There's an expression of melancholy in his face, my dear
which is very interesting. He would make a delightful mute, my love
I don't mean a regular mute to attend grown-up people, my dear, but only for children's practice. It would be very new to have a mute in proportion, my dear. You may depend upon it, it would have a superb effect
Aha
an order for a coffin, eh
For a coffin first, and a porochial funeral afterwards
Bayton
I never heard the name before
Obstinate people, Mr. Sowerberry; very obstinate. Proud, too, I'm afraid, sir
Proud, eh
Come, that's too much
Oh, it's sickening
Antimonial, Mr. Sowerberry
So it is
We only heard of the family the night before last
prentice (which is a very clever lad) sent 'em some medicine in a blacking-bottle, offhand
Ah, there's promptness
Promptness, indeed
Well
I ne -- ver -- did
Never did, sir
No, nor nobody never did; but now she's dead, we've got to bury her; and that's the direction; and the sooner it's done, the better
Why, he was so angry, Oliver, that he forgot even to ask after you
Yes, sir
Well
the sooner this job is done, the better. Noah, look after the shop. Oliver, put on your cap, and come with me
Nobody shall go near her
Keep back! Damn you, keep back, if you've a life to lose
Nonsense, my good man
Nonsense
I tell you
I tell you I won't have her put into the ground. She couldn't rest there. The worms would worry her -- not eat her -- she is so worn away
Ah
kneel down, kneel down -- kneel round her, every one of you, and mark my words! I say she was starved to death. I never knew how bad she was, till the fever came upon her; and then her bones were starting through the skin. There was neither fire nor candle; she died in the dark -- in the dark! She couldn't even see her children's faces, though we heard her gasping out their names. I begged for her in the streets: and they sent me to prison. When I came back, she was dying; and all the blood in my heart has dried up, for they starved her to death. I swear it before the God that saw it! They starved her
She was my daughter
Lord, Lord! Well, it _is_ strange that I who gave birth to her, and was a woman then, should be alive and merry now, and she lying there: so cold and stiff! Lord, Lord!-- to think of it; it's as good as a play -- as good as a play
Stop, stop
Will she be buried to-morrow, or next day, or to-night? I laid her out; and I must walk, you know. Send me a large cloak: a good warm one: for it is bitter cold. We should have cake and wine, too, before we go! Never mind; send some bread -- only a loaf of bread and a cup of water. Shall we have some bread, dear
Yes, yes
of course. Anything you like
Now, you must put your best leg foremost, old lady
we are rather late; and it won't do, to keep the clergyman waiting. Move on, my men,-- as quick as you like
Now, Bill
Fill up
Come, my good fellow
They want to shut up the yard
Well, Oliver
how do you like it
Not very much, sir
Ah, you'll get used to it in time, Oliver
Nothing when you _are_ used to it, my boy
how's your mother
She's dead
don't you say anything about her to me
Of a broken heart, some of our old nurses told me
I think I know what it must be to die of that
What's set you a snivelling now
Not _you_
There; that's enough. Don't say anything more to me about her; you'd better not
Better not
un she was. Oh, Lor
un
What did you say
He'll murder me
Charlotte! missis! Here's the new boy a murdering of me! Help! help! Oliver's gone mad! Char -- lotte
Oh, you little wretch
Oh, you little un-grate-ful, mur-de-rous, hor-rid villain
Bless her, she's going off
A glass of water, Noah, dear. Make haste
Oh! Charlotte
Oh! Charlotte, what a mercy we have not all been murdered in our beds
Ah! mercy indeed, ma'am
Poor fellow
What's to be done
Your master's not at home; there's not a man in the house, and he'll kick that door down in ten minutes
Dear, dear! I don't know, ma'am
unless we send for the police-officers
Or the millingtary
No, no
Run to Mr. Bumble, Noah, and tell him to come here directly, and not to lose a minute; never mind your cap! Make haste! You can hold a knife to that black eye, as you run along. It'll keep the swelling down
Why, what's the matter with the boy
Mr. Bumble! Mr. Bumble
Oh, Mr. Bumble, sir
Oliver, sir,-- Oliver has
What? What
Not run away; he hasn't run away, has he, Noah
No, sir, no. Not run away, sir, but he's turned wicious
It's a poor boy from the free-school, sir
who has been nearly murdered -- all but murdered, sir,-- by young Twist
By Jove
I knew it! I felt a strange presentiment from the very first, that that audacious young savage would come to be hung
He has likewise attempted, sir, to murder the female servant
And his missis
And his master, too, I think you said, Noah
No! he's out, or he would have murdered him
He said he wanted to
Ah! Said he wanted to, did he, my boy
Yes, sir
And please, sir, missis wants to know whether Mr. Bumble can spare time to step up there, directly, and flog him
Certainly, my boy; certainly
You're a good boy -- a very good boy. Here's a penny for you. Bumble, just step up to Sowerberry's with your cane, and see what's best to be done. Don't spare him, Bumble
No, I will not, sir
Oliver
Come; you let me out
Do you know this here voice, Oliver
Yes
Ain't you afraid of it, sir? Ain't you a-trembling while I speak, sir
No
Oh, you know, Mr. Bumble, he must be mad
No boy in half his senses could venture to speak so to you
It's not Madness, ma'am
It's Meat
What
Meat, ma'am, meat
You've over-fed him, ma'am. You've raised a artificial soul and spirit in him, ma'am unbecoming a person of his condition: as the board, Mrs. Sowerberry, who are practical philosophers, will tell you. What have paupers to do with soul or spirit? It's quite enough that we let 'em have live bodies. If you had kept the boy on gruel, ma'am, this would never have happened
Dear, dear
this comes of being liberal
Ah
the only thing that can be done now, that I know of, is to leave him in the cellar for a day or so, till he's a little starved down; and then to take him out, and keep him on gruel all through the apprenticeship. He comes of a bad family. Excitable natures, Mrs. Sowerberry! Both the nurse and doctor said, that that mother of his made her way here, against difficulties and pain that would have killed any well-disposed woman, weeks before
Now, you are a nice young fellow, ain't you
He called my mother names
Well, and what if he did, you little ungrateful wretch
She deserved what he said, and worse
She did
It's a lie
Hush, Dick
Is any one up
Nobody but me
You musn't say you saw me, Dick
I am running away. They beat and ill-use me, Dick; and I am going to seek my fortune, some long way off. I don't know where. How pale you are
I heard the doctor tell them I was dying
I am very glad to see you, dear; but don't stop, don't stop
Yes, yes, I will, to say good-b'ye to you
I shall see you again, Dick. I know I shall! You will be well and happy
I hope so
After I am dead, but not before. I know the doctor must be right, Oliver, because I dream so much of Heaven, and Angels, and kind faces that I never see when I am awake. Kiss me
Good-b'ye, dear! God bless you
A clean shirt
is a very comfortable thing; and so are two pairs of darned stockings; and so is a penny; but they are small helps to a sixty-five miles' walk in winter time
Hullo, my covey! What's the row
Hullo, my covey! What's the row
I am very hungry and tired
I have walked a long way. I have been walking these seven days
Walking for sivin days
Oh, I see. Beak's order, eh? But
I suppose you don't know what a beak is, my flash com-pan-i-on
My eyes, how green
Why, a beak's a madgst'rate; and when you walk by a beak's order, it's not straight forerd, but always agoing up, and niver a coming down agin. Was you never on the mill
What mill
What mill! Why, _the_ mill -- the mill as takes up so little room that it'll work inside a Stone Jug; and always goes better when the wind's low with people, than when it's high; acos then they can't get workmen. But come
you want grub, and you shall have it. I'm at low-water-mark myself -- only one bob and a magpie; but, as far as it goes, I'll fork out and stump. Up with you on your pins. There! Now then! 'Morrice
a fourpenny bran
Going to London
Yes
Got any lodgings
No
Money
No
Do you live in London
Yes. I do, when I'm at home
I suppose you want some place to sleep in to-night, don't you
I do, indeed
I have not slept under a roof since I left the country
Don't fret your eyelids on that score
I've got to be in London to-night; and I know a 'spectable old gentleman as lives there, wot'll give you lodgings for nothink, and never ask for the change -- that is, if any genelman he knows interduces you. And don't he know me? Oh, no! Not in the least! By no means. Certainly not
The Artful Dodger
Now, then
Plummy and slam
There's two on you
Who's the t'other one
A new pal
Where did he come from
Greenland. Is Fagin upstairs
Yes, he's a sortin' the wipes. Up with you
This is him, Fagin
We are very glad to see you, Oliver, very
Dodger, take off the sausages; and draw a tub near the fire for Oliver. Ah, you're a-staring at the pocket-handkerchiefs! eh, my dear. There are a good many of 'em, ain't there? We've just looked 'em out, ready for the wash; that's all, Oliver; that's all. Ha! ha! ha
Aha
Clever dogs! Clever dogs! Staunch to the last! Never told the old parson where they were. Never poached upon old Fagin! And why should they? It wouldn't have loosened the knot, or kept the drop up, a minute longer. No, no, no! Fine fellows! Fine fellows
What a fine thing capital punishment is! Dead men never repent; dead men never bring awkward stories to light. Ah, it's a fine thing for the trade! Five of 'em strung up in a row, and none left to play booty, or turn white-livered
What's that
I wasn't able to sleep any longer, sir
I am very sorry if I have disturbed you, sir
You were not awake an hour ago
No! No, indeed
Are you sure
Upon my word I was not, sir
I was not, indeed, sir
Tush, tush, my dear
Of course I know that, my dear. I only tried to frighten you. You're a brave boy. Ha! ha! you're a brave boy, Oliver
Did you see any of these pretty things, my dear
Yes, sir
Ah
They -- they're mine, Oliver; my little property. All I have to live upon, in my old age. The folks call me a miser, my dear. Only a miser; that's all
Certainly, my dear, certainly
Stay. There's a pitcher of water in the corner by the door. Bring it here; and I'll give you a basin to wash in, my dear
Well
I hope you've been at work this morning, my dears
Hard
As nails
Good boys, good boys
What have you got, Dodger
A couple of pocket-books
Lined
Pretty well
Not so heavy as they might be
but very neat and nicely made. Ingenious workman, ain't he, Oliver
Very indeed, sir
And what have you got, my dear
Wipes
Well
they're very good ones, very. You haven't marked them well, though, Charley; so the marks shall be picked out with a needle, and we'll teach Oliver how to do it. Shall us, Oliver, eh? Ha! ha! ha
If you please, sir
You'd like to be able to make pocket-handkerchiefs as easy as Charley Bates, wouldn't you, my dear
Very much, indeed, if you'll teach me, sir
He is so jolly green
There, my dear
That's a pleasant life, isn't it? They have gone out for the day
Have they done work, sir
Yes
that is, unless they should unexpectedly come across any, when they are out; and they won't neglect it, if they do, my dear, depend upon it. Make 'em your models, my dear. Make 'em your models
do everything they bid you, and take their advice in all matters -- especially the Dodger's, my dear. He'll be a great man himself, and will make you one too, if you take pattern by him.-- Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket, my dear
Yes, sir
See if you can take it out, without my feeling it; as you saw them do, when we were at play this morning
Is it gone
Here it is, sir
You're a clever boy, my dear
I never saw a sharper lad. Here's a shilling for you. If you go on, in this way, you'll be the greatest man of the time. And now come here, and I'll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs
What's the matter
Hush
Do you see that old cove at the book-stall
The old gentleman over the way
Yes, I see him
He'll do
A prime plant
Stop thief
Stop thief
Stop thief! Stop thief
Stop thief! Stop thief
Stop thief! Stop thief
Stop thief! Stop thief
Stop thief
Stand aside
Give him a little air
Nonsense! he don't deserve it
Where's the gentleman
Here his is, coming down the street
Make room there for the gentleman
Is this the boy, sir
Yes
Yes
I am afraid it is the boy
Afraid
un
Poor fellow
he has hurt himself
_I_ did that, sir
and preciously I cut my knuckle agin' his mouth. I stopped him, sir
Come, get up
It wasn't me indeed, sir. Indeed, indeed, it was two other boys
They are here somewhere
Oh no, they ain't
Come, get up
Don't hurt him
Oh no, I won't hurt him
Come, I know you; it won't do. Will you stand upon your legs, you young devil
What's the matter now
A young fogle-hunter
Are you the party that's been robbed, sir
Yes, I am
but I am not sure that this boy actually took the handkerchief. I -- I would rather not press the case
Must go before the magistrate now, sir
His worship will be disengaged in half a minute. Now, young gallows
There is something in that boy's face
something that touches and interests me. _Can_ he be innocent? He looked like -- Bye the bye
Bless my soul!-- where have I seen something like that look before
No
That is my name and address, sir
Who are you
Officer
Who is this fellow
My name, sir
my name, sir, is Brownlow. Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person, under the protection of the bench
Officer
what's this fellow charged with
He's not charged at all, your worship
He appears against this boy, your worship
Appears against the boy, does he
Swear him
Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word
and that is, that I really never, without actual experience, could have believed
Hold your tongue, sir
I will not, sir
Hold your tongue this instant, or I'll have you turned out of the office
You're an insolent impertinent fellow. How dare you bully a magistrate
What
Swear this person
I'll not hear another word. Swear him
Now
what's the charge against this boy? What have you got to say, sir
I was standing at a bookstall
Hold your tongue, sir
Policeman! Where's the policeman? Here, swear this policeman. Now, policeman, what is this
Are there any witnesses
None, your worship
Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is, man, or do you not? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refusing to give evidence, I'll punish you for disrespect to the bench; I will, by
He has been hurt already
And I fear
I really fear that he is ill
Oh! yes, I dare say
Come, none of your tricks here, you young vagabond; they won't do. What's your name
What's your name, you hardened scoundrel
Officer, what's his name
He says his name's Tom White, your worship
Oh, he won't speak out, won't he
Very well, very well. Where does he live
Where he can, your worship
Has he any parents
He says they died in his infancy, your worship
Stuff and nonsense
don't try to make a fool of me
I think he really is ill, your worship
I know better
Take care of him, officer
he'll fall down
Stand away, officer
let him, if he likes
I knew he was shamming
Let him lie there; he'll soon be tired of that
How do you propose to deal with the case, sir
Summarily
He stands committed for three months -- hard labour of course. Clear the office
Stop, stop! don't take him away! For Heaven's sake stop a moment
What is this? Who is this? Turn this man out. Clear the office
I _will_ speak
I will not be turned out. I saw it all. I keep the book-stall. I demand to be sworn. I will not be put down. Mr. Fang, you must hear me. You must not refuse, sir
Swear the man
Now, man, what have you got to say
This
I saw three boys: two others and the prisoner here: loitering on the opposite side of the way, when this gentleman was reading. The robbery was committed by another boy. I saw it done; and I saw that this boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by it
Why didn't you come here before
I hadn't a soul to mind the shop
Everybody who could have helped me, had joined in the pursuit. I could get nobody till five minutes ago; and I've run here all the way
The prosecutor was reading, was he
Yes
The very book he has in his hand
Oh, that book, eh
Is it paid for
No, it is not
Dear me, I forgot all about it
A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor boy
I consider, sir, that you have obtained possession of that book, under very suspicious and disreputable circumstances; and you may think yourself very fortunate that the owner of the property declines to prosecute. Let this be a lesson to you, my man, or the law will overtake you yet. The boy is discharged. Clear the office
D -- n me
d -- n me! I'll
Clear the office
Officers, do you hear? Clear the office
Poor boy, poor boy
Call a coach, somebody, pray. Directly
May I accompany you
Bless me, yes, my dear sir
I forgot you. Dear, dear! I have this unhappy book still! Jump in. Poor fellow! There's no time to lose
What room is this? Where have I been brought to
This is not the place I went to sleep in
Hush, my dear
You must be very quiet, or you will be ill again; and you have been very bad,-- as bad as bad could be, pretty nigh. Lie down again; there's a dear
Save us
What a grateful little dear it is. Pretty creetur! What would his mother feel if she had sat by him as I have, and could see him now
Perhaps she does see me
perhaps she has sat by me. I almost feel as if she had
That was the fever, my dear
I suppose it was
because heaven is a long way off; and they are too happy there, to come down to the bedside of a poor boy. But if she knew I was ill, she must have pitied me, even there; for she was very ill herself before she died. She can't know anything about me though
If she had seen me hurt, it would have made her sorrowful; and her face has always looked sweet and happy, when I have dreamed of her
You _are_ a great deal better, are you not, my dear
Yes, thank you, sir
Yes, I know you are
You're hungry too, an't you
No, sir
Hem
No, I know you're not. He is not hungry, Mrs. Bedwin
You feel sleepy, don't you, my dear
No, sir
No
You're not sleepy. Nor thirsty. Are you
Yes, sir, rather thirsty
Just as I expected, Mrs. Bedwin
It's very natural that he should be thirsty. You may give him a little tea, ma'am, and some dry toast without any butter. Don't keep him too warm, ma'am; but be careful that you don't let him be too cold; will you have the goodness
Never mind me, my dear
I'm only having a regular good cry. There; it's all over now; and I'm quite comfortable
You're very, very kind to me, ma'am
Well, never you mind that, my dear
that's got nothing to do with your broth; and it's full time you had it; for the doctor says Mr. Brownlow may come in to see you this morning; and we must get up our best looks, because the better we look, the more he'll be pleased
Are you fond of pictures, dear
I don't quite know, ma'am
I have seen so few that I hardly know. What a beautiful, mild face that lady's is
Ah
painters always make ladies out prettier than they are, or they wouldn't get any custom, child. The man that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed; it's a deal too honest. A deal
Is -- is that a likeness, ma'am
Yes
that's a portrait
Whose, ma'am
Why, really, my dear, I don't know
It's not a likeness of anybody that you or I know, I expect. It seems to strike your fancy, dear
It is so pretty
Why, sure you're not afraid of it
Oh no, no
but the eyes look so sorrowful; and where I sit, they seem fixed upon me. It makes my heart beat
as if it was alive, and wanted to speak to me, but couldn't
Lord save us
don't talk in that way, child. You're weak and nervous after your illness. Let me wheel your chair round to the other side; and then you won't see it. There
you don't see it now, at all events
Come in
Poor boy, poor boy
I'm rather hoarse this morning, Mrs. Bedwin. I'm afraid I have caught cold
I hope not, sir
Everything you have had, has been well aired, sir
I don't know, Bedwin. I don't know
I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner-time yesterday; but never mind that. How do you feel, my dear
Very happy, sir
And very grateful indeed, sir, for your goodness to me
Good by
Have you given him any nourishment, Bedwin? Any slops, eh
He has just had a basin of beautiful strong broth, sir
Ugh
a couple of glasses of port wine would have done him a great deal more good. Wouldn't they, Tom White, eh
My name is Oliver, sir
Oliver
Oliver what? Oliver White, eh
No, sir, Twist, Oliver Twist
Queer name
What made you tell the magistrate your name was White
I never told him so, sir
Some mistake
I hope you are not angry with me, sir
No, no
Why! what's this? Bedwin, look there
What's the matter
Ha! ha! ha
Hold your noise
Do you want to be grabbed, stupid
I can't help it
I can't help it! To see him splitting away at that pace, and cutting round the corners, and knocking up again' the posts, and starting on again as if he was made of iron as well as them, and me with the wipe in my pocket, singing out arter him -- oh, my eye
What'll Fagin say
What
Ah, what
Why, what should he say
What should he say
What do you mean
Toor rul lol loo, gammon and spinnage, the frog he wouldn't, and high cockolorum
What do you mean
Why, how's this
only two of 'em? Where's the third? They can't have got into trouble. Hark
Where's Oliver
Where's the boy
What's become of the boy
Speak out, or I'll throttle you
Will you speak
Why, the traps have got him, and that's all about it
Come, let go o' me, will you
Why, what the blazes is in the wind now
Who pitched that 'ere at me? It's well it's the beer, and not the pot, as hit me, or I'd have settled somebody. I might have know'd, as nobody but an infernal, rich, plundering, thundering old Jew could afford to throw away any drink but water -- and not that, unless he done the River Company every quarter. Wot's it all about, Fagin? D -- me, if my neck-handkercher an't lined with beer! Come in, you sneaking warmint; wot are you stopping outside for, as if you was ashamed of your master! Come in
Come in, d'ye hear
Why didn't you come in afore
You're getting too proud to own me afore company, are you? Lie down
What are you up to? Ill-treating the boys, you covetous, avaricious, in-sa-ti-a-ble old fence
prentice, I'd have done it long ago, and -- no, I couldn't have sold you afterwards, for you're fit for nothing but keeping as a curiousity of ugliness in a glass bottle, and I suppose they don't blow glass bottles large enough
Hush! hush! Mr. Sikes
don't speak so loud
None of your mistering
you always mean mischief when you come that. You know my name: out with it! I shan't disgrace it when the time comes
Well, well, then -- Bill Sikes
You seem out of humour, Bill
Perhaps I am
I should think you was rather out of sorts too, unless you mean as little harm when you throw pewter pots about, as you do when you blab and
Are you mad
And mind you don't poison it
I'm afraid
that he may say something which will get us into trouble
That's very likely
You're blowed upon, Fagin
And I'm afraid, you see
I'm afraid that, if the game was up with us, it might be up with a good many more, and that it would come out rather worse for you than it would for me, my dear
Somebody must find out wot's been done at the office
If he hasn't peached, and is committed, there's no fear till he comes out again
and then he must be taken care on. You must get hold of him somehow
The very thing
Bet will go; won't you, my dear
Wheres
Only just up to the office, my dear
Nancy, my dear
what do YOU say
That it won't do; so it's no use a-trying it on, Fagin
What do you mean by that
What I say, Bill
Why, you're just the very person for it
nobody about here knows anything of you
And as I don't want 'em to, neither
it's rather more no than yes with me, Bill
She'll go, Fagin
No, she won't, Fagin
Yes, she will, Fagin
Stop a minute, my dear
Carry that in one hand. It looks more respectable, my dear
Give her a door-key to carry in her t'other one, Fagin
it looks real and genivine like
Yes, yes, my dear, so it does
There; very good! Very good indeed, my dear
Oh, my brother! My poor, dear, sweet, innocent little brother
What has become of him! Where have they taken him to! Oh, do have pity, and tell me what's been done with the dear boy, gentlemen; do, gentlemen, if you please, gentlemen
Ah, she's a clever girl, my dears
She's a honour to her sex
Here's her health, and wishing they was all like her
Nolly, dear
Nolly
Well
Is there a little boy here
No
God forbid
I haven't got him, my dear
Where is he
Why, the gentleman's got him
What gentleman! Oh, gracious heavens! What gentleman
We must know where he is, my dears; he must be found
Charley, do nothing but skulk about, till you bring home some news of him! Nancy, my dear, I must have him found. I trust to you, my dear,-- to you and the Artful for everything! Stay, stay
there's money, my dears. I shall shut up this shop to-night. You'll know where to find me! Don't stop here a minute. Not an instant, my dears
Who's there
Me
What now
Is he to be kidnapped to the other ken, Nancy says
Yes
wherever she lays hands on him. Find him, find him out, that's all. I shall know what to do next; never fear
He has not peached so far
If he means to blab us among his new friends, we may stop his mouth yet
Ah
It is gone, you see
I see it is ma'am
Why have they taken it away
It has been taken down, child, because Mr. Brownlow said, that as it seemed to worry you, perhaps it might prevent your getting well, you know
Oh, no, indeed. It didn't worry me, ma'am
I liked to see it. I quite loved it
Well, well
you get well as fast as ever you can, dear, and it shall be hung up again. There! I promise you that! Now, let us talk about something else
Bless us, and save us! Wash your hands, and let me part your hair nicely for you, child
Dear heart alive! If we had known he would have asked for you, we would have put you a clean collar on, and made you as smart as sixpence
There are a good many books, are there not, my boy
A great number, sir
I never saw so many
You shall read them, if you behave well
and you will like that, better than looking at the outsides,-- that is, some cases; because there are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts
I suppose they are those heavy ones, sir
Not always those
there are other equally heavy ones, though of a much smaller size. How should you like to grow up a clever man, and write books, eh
I think I would rather read them, sir
What! wouldn't you like to be a book-writer
Well, well
Don't be afraid! We won't make an author of you, while there's an honest trade to be learnt, or brick-making to turn to
Thank you, sir
Now
I want you to pay great attention, my boy, to what I am going to say. I shall talk to you without any reserve; because I am sure you are well able to understand me, as many older persons would be
Oh, don't tell you are going to send me away, sir, pray
Don't turn me out of doors to wander in the streets again. Let me stay here, and be a servant. Don't send me back to the wretched place I came from. Have mercy upon a poor boy, sir
My dear child
you need not be afraid of my deserting you, unless you give me cause
I never, never will, sir
I hope not
I do not think you ever will. I have been deceived, before, in the objects whom I have endeavoured to benefit; but I feel strongly disposed to trust you, nevertheless; and I am more interested in your behalf than I can well account for, even to myself. The persons on whom I have bestowed my dearest love, lie deep in their graves; but, although the happiness and delight of my life lie buried there too, I have not made a coffin of my heart, and sealed it up, forever, on my best affections. Deep affliction has but strengthened and refined them
Well, well
I only say this, because you have a young heart; and knowing that I have suffered great pain and sorrow, you will be more careful, perhaps, not to wound me again. You say you are an orphan, without a friend in the world; all the inquiries I have been able to make, confirm the statement. Let me hear your story; where you come from; who brought you up; and how you got into the company in which I found you. Speak the truth, and you shall not be friendless while I live
Is he coming up
Yes, sir
He asked if there were any muffins in the house; and, when I told him yes, he said he had come to tea
Shall I go downstairs, sir
No
I would rather you remained here
Look here! do you see this! Isn't it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that I can't call at a man's house but I find a piece of this poor surgeon's friend on the staircase? I've been lamed with orange-peel once, and I know orange-peel will be my death, or I'll be content to eat my own head, sir
I'll eat my head, sir
Hallo! what's that
This is young Oliver Twist, whom we were speaking about
You don't mean to say that's the boy who had the fever, I hope
Wait a minute! Don't speak! Stop --' continued Mr. Grimwig, abruptly, losing all dread of the fever in his triumph at the discovery; 'that's the boy who had the orange! If that's not the boy, sir, who had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I'll eat my head, and his too
No, no, he has not had one
Come! Put down your hat; and speak to my young friend
I feel strongly on this subject, sir
There's always more or less orange-peel on the pavement in our street; and I _know_ it's put there by the surgeon's boy at the corner. A young woman stumbled over a bit last night, and fell against my garden-railings; directly she got up I saw her look towards his infernal red lamp with the pantomime-light. "Don't go to him," I called out of the window, "he's an assassin! A man-trap!" So he is. If he is not
That's the boy, is it
That's the boy
How are you, boy
A great deal better, thank you, sir
He is a nice-looking boy, is he not
I don't know
Don't know
No. I don't know. I never see any difference in boys. I only knew two sort of boys. Mealy boys, and beef-faced boys
And which is Oliver
Mealy. I know a friend who has a beef-faced boy; a fine boy, they call him; with a round head, and red cheeks, and glaring eyes; a horrid boy; with a body and limbs that appear to be swelling out of the seams of his blue clothes; with the voice of a pilot, and the appetite of a wolf. I know him! The wretch
Come
these are not the characteristics of young Oliver Twist; so he needn't excite your wrath
They are not
He may have worse
He may have worse, I say
Where does he come from! Who is he? What is he? He has had a fever. What of that? Fevers are not peculiar to good people; are they? Bad people have fevers sometimes; haven't they, eh? I knew a man who was hung in Jamaica for murdering his master. He had had a fever six times; he wasn't recommended to mercy on that account. Pooh! nonsense
And when are you going to hear a full, true, and particular account of the life and adventures of Oliver Twist
To-morrow morning
Yes, sir
I'll tell you what
he won't come up to you to-morrow morning. I saw him hesitate. He is deceiving you, my good friend
I'll swear he is not
If he is not
I'll
I'll answer for that boy's truth with my life
And I for his falsehood with my head
We shall see
We will
we will
Stop the boy, Mrs. Bedwin
there is something to go back
He has gone, sir
Call after him
it's particular. He is a poor man, and they are not paid for. There are some books to be taken back, too
Dear me, I am very sorry for that
I particularly wished those books to be returned to-night
Send Oliver with them
he will be sure to deliver them safely, you know
Yes; do let me take them, if you please, sir
I'll run all the way, sir
You _shall_ go, my dear
The books are on a chair by my table. Fetch them down
You are to say
you are to say that you have brought those books back; and that you have come to pay the four pound ten I owe him. This is a five-pound note, so you will have to bring me back, ten shillings change
I won't be ten minutes, sir
Bless his sweet face
I can't bear, somehow, to let him go out of my sight
Let me see; he'll be back in twenty minutes, at the longest
It will be dark by that time
Oh! you really expect him to come back, do you
Don't you
No
I do not. The boy has a new suit of clothes on his back, a set of valuable books under his arm, and a five-pound note in his pocket. He'll join his old friends the thieves, and laugh at you. If ever that boy returns to this house, sir, I'll eat my head
Keep quiet, you warmint! Keep quiet
You would, would you
Come here, you born devil! Come here! D'ye hear
What the devil do you come in between me and my dog for
I didn't know, my dear, I didn't know
Didn't know, you white-livered thief
Couldn't you hear the noise
Not a sound of it, as I'm a living man, Bill
Oh no! You hear nothing, you don't
Sneaking in and out, so as nobody hears how you come or go! I wish you had been the dog, Fagin, half a minute ago
Why
Cause the government, as cares for the lives of such men as you, as haven't half the pluck of curs, lets a man kill a dog how he likes
that's why
Grin away
grin away. You'll never have the laugh at me, though, unless it's behind a nightcap. I've got the upper hand over you, Fagin; and, d -- me, I'll keep it. There! If I go, you go; so take care of me
Well, well, my dear
I know all that; we -- we -- have a mutual interest, Bill,-- a mutual interest
Humph
Well, what have you got to say to me
It's all passed safe through the melting-pot
and this is your share. It's rather more than it ought to be, my dear; but as I know you'll do me a good turn another time, and
Stow that gammon
Where is it? Hand over
Yes, yes, Bill; give me time, give me time
Here it is! All safe
This is all, is it
All
You haven't opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along, have you
Don't put on an injured look at the question; you've done it many a time. Jerk the tinkler
Is anybody here, Barney
Dot a shoul
Nobody
Dobody but Biss Dadsy
Nancy
Where? Strike me blind, if I don't honour that 'ere girl, for her native talents
She's bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar
Send her here
Send her here
You are on the scent, are you, Nancy
Yes, I am, Bill
and tired enough of it I am, too. The young brat's been ill and confined to the crib; and
Ah, Nancy, dear
Oh, my dear brother
Don't
Let go of me. Who is it? What are you stopping me for
Oh my gracious
I have found him! Oh! Oliver! Oliver! Oh you naughty boy, to make me suffer such distress on your account! Come home, dear, come. Oh, I've found him. Thank gracious goodness heavins, I've found him
Oh, no, no, never mind
I'm better now. Come home directly, you cruel boy! Come
Oh, ma'am
he ran away, near a month ago, from his parents, who are hard-working and respectable people; and went and joined a set of thieves and bad characters; and almost broke his mother's heart
Young wretch
Go home, do, you little brute
I am not
I don't know her. I haven't any sister, or father and mother either. I'm an orphan; I live at Pentonville
Only hear him, how he braves it out
Why, it's Nancy
You see he knows me
He can't help himself. Make him come home, there's good people, or he'll kill his dear mother and father, and break my heart
What the devil's this
young Oliver! Come home to your poor mother, you young dog! Come home directly
I don't belong to them. I don't know them. Help! help
Help
'em, have you? Give 'em here
That's right
That's the only way of bringing him to his senses
To be sure
It'll do him good
And he shall have it, too
Come on, you young villain! Here, Bull's-eye, mind him, boy! Mind him
Do you hear
Give me the other
Here, Bull's-Eye
See here, boy
if he speaks ever so soft a word, hold him! D'ye mind
He's as willing as a Christian, strike me blind if he isn't
Eight o' clock, Bill
What's the good of telling me that; I can hear it, can't I
I wonder whether THEY can hear it
Of course they can
It was Bartlemy time when I was shopped; and there warn't a penny trumpet in the fair, as I couldn't hear the squeaking on. Arter I was locked up for the night, the row and din outside made the thundering old jail so silent, that I could almost have beat my brains out against the iron plates of the door
Poor fellow
Oh, Bill, such fine young chaps as them
Yes; that's all you women think of
Fine young chaps! Well, they're as good as dead, so it don't much matter
Wait a minute
And what good would that do
Unless you could pitch over a file and twenty yards of good stout rope, you might as well be walking fifty mile off, or not walking at all, for all the good it would do me. Come on, and don't stand preaching there
All right
Anybody here
No
un here
Yes
and precious down in the mouth he has been. Won't he be glad to see you? Oh, no
Let's have a glim
or we shall go breaking our necks, or treading on the dog. Look after your legs if you do
Stand still a moment, and I'll get you one
Oh, my wig, my wig
here he is! oh, cry, here he is! Oh, Fagin, look at him! Fagin, do look at him! I can't bear it; it is such a jolly game, I cant' bear it. Hold me, somebody, while I laugh it out
Look at his togs, Fagin
Look at his togs! Superfine cloth, and the heavy swell cut! Oh, my eye, what a game! And his books, too! Nothing but a gentleman, Fagin
Delighted to see you looking so well, my dear
The Artful shall give you another suit, my dear, for fear you should spoil that Sunday one. Why didn't you write, my dear, and say you were coming? We'd have got something warm for supper
Hallo, what's that
That's mine, Fagin
No, no, my dear
Mine, Bill, mine. You shall have the books
If that ain't mine
mine and Nancy's that is; I'll take the boy back again
Come! Hand over, will you
This is hardly fair, Bill; hardly fair, is it, Nancy
Fair, or not fair
hand over, I tell you! Do you think Nancy and me has got nothing else to do with our precious time but to spend it in scouting arter, and kidnapping, every young boy as gets grabbed through you? Give it here, you avaricious old skeleton, give it here
That's for our share of the trouble
and not half enough, neither. You may keep the books, if you're fond of reading. If you ain't, sell 'em
They're very pretty
beautiful writing, isn't is, Oliver
They belong to the old gentleman
to the good, kind, old gentleman who took me into his house, and had me nursed, when I was near dying of the fever. Oh, pray send them back; send him back the books and money. Keep me here all my life long; but pray, pray send them back. He'll think I stole them; the old lady: all of them who were so kind to me: will think I stole them. Oh, do have mercy upon me, and send them back
The boy's right
You're right, Oliver, you're right; they WILL think you have stolen 'em. Ha! ha
it couldn't have happened better, if we had chosen our time
Of course it couldn't
I know'd that, directly I see him coming through Clerkenwell, with the books under his arm. It's all right enough. They're soft-hearted psalm-singers, or they wouldn't have taken him in at all; and they'll ask no questions after him, fear they should be obliged to prosecute, and so get him lagged. He's safe enough
Keep back the dog, Bill
Keep back the dog; he'll tear the boy to pieces
Serve him right
Stand off from me, or I'll split your head against the wall
I don't care for that, Bill, I don't care for that
the child shan't be torn down by the dog, unless you kill me first
Shan't he
I'll soon do that, if you don't keep off
What's the matter here
The girl's gone mad, I think
No, she hasn't
no, she hasn't, Fagin; don't think it
Then keep quiet, will you
No, I won't do that, neither
Come! What do you think of that
So you wanted to get away, my dear, did you
eh
Wanted to get assistance; called for the police; did you
We'll cure you of that, my young master
I won't stand by and see it done, Fagin
You've got the boy, and what more would you have?-- Let him be -- let him be -- or I shall put that mark on some of you, that will bring me to the gallows before my time
Why, Nancy
you,-- you're more clever than ever to-night. Ha! ha! my dear, you are acting beautifully
Am I
Take care I don't overdo it. You will be the worse for it, Fagin, if I do; and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me
What do you mean by this
what do you mean by it? Burn my body! Do you know who you are, and what you are
Oh, yes, I know all about it
Well, then, keep quiet
or I'll quiet you for a good long time to come
You're a nice one
to take up the humane and gen -- teel side! A pretty subject for the child, as you call him, to make a friend of
God Almighty help me, I am
and I wish I had been struck dead in the street, or had changed places with them we passed so near to-night, before I had lent a hand in bringing him here. He's a thief, a liar, a devil, all that's bad, from this night forth. Isn't that enough for the old wretch, without blows
Come, come, Sikes
we must have civil words; civil words, Bill
Civil words
Civil words, you villain! Yes, you deserve 'em from me. I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this
I have been in the same trade, and in the same service, for twelve years since. Don't you know it? Speak out! Don't you know it
Well, well
and, if you have, it's your living
Aye, it is
It is my living; and the cold, wet, dirty streets are my home; and you're the wretch that drove me to them long ago, and that'll keep me there, day and night, day and night, till I die
I shall do you a mischief
a mischief worse than that, if you say much more
She's all right now
She's uncommon strong in the arms, when she's up in this way
It's the worst of having to do with women
but they're clever, and we can't get on, in our line, without 'em. Charley, show Oliver to bed
I suppose he'd better not wear his best clothes tomorrow, Fagin, had he
Certainly not
Put off the smart ones
and I'll give 'em to Fagin to take care of. What fun it is
Drat that beadle
If it isn't him at this time in the morning! Lauk, Mr. Bumble, only think of its being you! Well, dear me, it IS a pleasure, this is! Come into the parlour, sir, please
Mrs. Mann
Mrs. Mann, ma'am, good morning
Well, and good morning to _you_, sir
and hoping you find yourself well, sir
So-so, Mrs. Mann
A porochial life is not a bed of roses, Mrs. Mann
Ah, that it isn't indeed, Mr. Bumble
A porochial life, ma'am
is a life of worrit, and vexation, and hardihood; but all public characters, as I may say, must suffer prosecution
Ah! You may well sigh, Mrs. Mann
Mrs. Mann, I am going to London
Lauk, Mr. Bumble
To London, ma'am
whether the Clerkinwell Sessions will not find themselves in the wrong box before they have done with me
Oh! you mustn't be too hard upon them, sir
The Clerkinwell Sessions have brought it upon themselves, ma'am
and if the Clerkinwell Sessions find that they come off rather worse than they expected, the Clerkinwell Sessions have only themselves to thank
You're going by coach, sir? I thought it was always usual to send them paupers in carts
That's when they're ill, Mrs. Mann
We put the sick paupers into open carts in the rainy weather, to prevent their taking cold
Oh
The opposition coach contracts for these two; and takes them cheap
They are both in a very low state, and we find it would come two pound cheaper to move 'em than to bury 'em -- that is, if we can throw 'em upon another parish, which I think we shall be able to do, if they don't die upon the road to spite us. Ha! ha! ha
We are forgetting business, ma'am
here is your porochial stipend for the month
It's very much blotted, sir
but it's formal enough, I dare say. Thank you, Mr. Bumble, sir, I am very much obliged to you, I'm sure
Bless their dear little hearts
they're as well as can be, the dears! Of course, except the two that died last week. And little Dick
Isn't that boy no better
He's a ill-conditioned, wicious, bad-disposed porochial child that
Where is he
I'll bring him to you in one minute, sir
Here, you Dick
Can't you look at the gentleman, you obstinate boy
What's the matter with you, porochial Dick
Nothing, sir
I should think not
You want for nothing, I'm sure
I should like
Hey-day
I suppose you're going to say that you DO want for something, now? Why, you little wretch
Stop, Mrs. Mann, stop
Like what, sir, eh
I should like
if somebody that can write, would put a few words down for me on a piece of paper, and fold it up and seal it, and keep it for me, after I am laid in the ground
Why, what does the boy mean
What do you mean, sir
I should like
to leave my dear love to poor Oliver Twist; and to let him know how often I have sat by myself and cried to think of his wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help him. And I should like to tell him
that I was glad to die when I was very young; for, perhaps, if I had lived to be a man, and had grown old, my little sister who is in Heaven, might forget me, or be unlike me; and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together
They're all in one story, Mrs. Mann. That out-dacious Oliver had demogalized them all
I never see such a hardened little wretch
Take him away, ma'am
I hope the gentleman will understand that it isn't my fault, sir
They shall understand that, ma'am; they shall be acquainted with the true state of the case
There; take him away, I can't bear the sight on him
FIVE GUINEAS REWARD 'Whereas a young boy, named Oliver Twist, absconded, or was enticed, on Thursday evening last, from his home, at Pentonville; and has not since been heard of. The above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said Oliver Twist, or tend to throw any light upon his previous history, in which the advertiser is, for many reasons, warmly interested
Is Mr. Brownlow at home
I don't know; where do you come from
Come in, come in
I knew we should hear of him. Poor dear! I knew we should! I was certain of it. Bless his heart! I said so all along
A beadle. A parish beadle, or I'll eat my head
Pray don't interrupt just now
Take a seat, will you
Now, sir, you come in consequence of having seen the advertisement
Yes, sir
And you ARE a beadle, are you not
I am a porochial beadle, gentlemen
Of course
I knew he was. A beadle all over
Do you know where this poor boy is now
No more than nobody
Well, what DO you know of him
Speak out, my friend, if you have anything to say. What DO you know of him
You don't happen to know any good of him, do you
You see
I fear it is all too true
This is not much for your intelligence; but I would gladly have given you treble the money, if it had been favourable to the boy
Mrs. Bedwin
that boy, Oliver, is an imposter
It can't be, sir. It cannot be
I tell you he is
What do you mean by can't be? We have just heard a full account of him from his birth; and he has been a thorough-paced little villain, all his life
I never will believe it, sir
Never
You old women never believe anything but quack-doctors, and lying story-books
I knew it all along. Why didn't you take my advise in the beginning; you would if he hadn't had a fever, I suppose, eh? He was interesting, wasn't he? Interesting! Bah
He was a dear, grateful, gentle child, sir
I know what children are, sir; and have done these forty years; and people who can't say the same, shouldn't say anything about them. That's my opinion
Silence
Never let me hear the boy's name again. I rang to tell you that. Never. Never, on any pretence, mind! You may leave the room, Mrs. Bedwin. Remember! I am in earnest
japanning his trotter-cases
What a pity it is he isn't a prig
Ah
he don't know what's good for him
I suppose you don't even know what a prig is
I think I know that
It's a the --; you're one, are you not
I am
I'd scorn to be anything else
I am
So's Charley. So's Fagin. So's Sikes. So's Nancy. So's Bet. So we all are, down to the dog. And he's the downiest one of the lot
And the least given to peaching
He wouldn't so much as bark in a witness-box, for fear of committing himself; no, not if you tied him up in one, and left him there without wittles for a fortnight
Not a bit of it
He's a rum dog. Don't he look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when he's in company
Won't he growl at all, when he hears a fiddle playing! And don't he hate other dogs as ain't of his breed! Oh, no
He's an out-and-out Christian
Well, well
This hasn't go anything to do with young Green here
No more it has
Why don't you put yourself under Fagin, Oliver
And make your fortun' out of hand
And so be able to retire on your property, and do the gen-teel: as I mean to, in the very next leap-year but four that ever comes, and the forty-second Tuesday in Trinity-week
I don't like it
I wish they would let me go. I -- I -- would rather go
And Fagin would RATHER not
Go
Why, where's your spirit
Oh, blow that
that's too mean; that is
_I_ couldn't do it
You can leave your friends, though
and let them be punished for what you did
That
cause the traps know that we work together, and he might have got into trouble if we hadn't made our lucky; that was the move, wasn't it, Charley
Look here
Here's a jolly life! What's the odds where it comes from? Here, catch hold; there's plenty more where they were took from. You won't, won't you? Oh, you precious flat
It's naughty, ain't it, Oliver
He'll come to be scragged, won't he
I don't know what that means
Something in this way, old feller
That's what it means
ere boy; he'll be the death of me, I know he will
You've been brought up bad
Fagin will make something of you, though, or you'll be the first he ever had that turned out unprofitable. You'd better begin at once; for you'll come to the trade long before you think of it; and you're only losing time, Oliver
And always put this in your pipe, Nolly
if you don't take fogels and tickers
What's the good of talking in that way
he don't know what you mean
If you don't take pocket-handkechers and watches
To be sure, to be sure
It all lies in a nutshell my dear; in a nutshell, take the Dodger's word for it. Ha! ha! ha! He understands the catechism of his trade
wished he might be busted if he warn't as dry as a lime-basket
Where do you think the gentleman has come from, Oliver
I -- I -- don't know, sir
Who's that
A young friend of mine, my dear
He's in luck, then
un; you'll find your way there, soon enough, I'll bet a crown
Only me, Bill; only me, my dear
Bring in your body then
Lie down, you stupid brute! Don't you know the devil when he's got a great-coat on
Well
Well, my dear
Ah! Nancy
It is cold, Nancy dear
It seems to go right through one
It must be a piercer, if it finds its way through your heart
Give him something to drink, Nancy. Burn my body, make haste! It's enough to turn a man ill, to see his lean old carcase shivering in that way, like a ugly ghost just rose from the grave
Quite enough, quite, thankye, Bill
What! You're afraid of our getting the better of you, are you
Ugh
There
Now I'm ready
For business
For business
so say what you've got to say
About the crib at Chertsey, Bill
Yes. Wot about it
Ah! you know what I mean, my dear
He knows what I mean, Nancy; don't he
No, he don't
Or he won't, and that's the same thing. Speak out, and call things by their right names; don't sit there, winking and blinking, and talking to me in hints, as if you warn't the very first that thought about the robbery. Wot d'ye mean
Hush, Bill, hush
somebody will hear us, my dear. Somebody will hear us
Let 'em hear
I don't care
There, there
It was only my caution, nothing more. Now, my dear, about that crib at Chertsey; when is it to be done, Bill, eh? When is it to be done? Such plate, my dear, such plate
Not at all
Not to be done at all
No, not at all
At least it can't be a put-up job, as we expected
Then it hasn't been properly gone about
Don't tell me
But I will tell you
Who are you that's not to be told? I tell you that Toby Crackit has been hanging about the place for a fortnight, and he can't get one of the servants in line
Do you mean to tell me, Bill
that neither of the two men in the house can be got over
Yes, I do mean to tell you so
The old lady has had 'em these twenty years; and if you were to give 'em five hundred pound, they wouldn't be in it
But do you mean to say, my dear
that the women can't be got over
Not a bit of it
Not by flash Toby Crackit
Think what women are, Bill
No; not even by flash Toby Crackit
He says he's worn sham whiskers, and a canary waistcoat, the whole blessed time he's been loitering down there, and it's all of no use
He should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers, my dear
So he did
and they warn't of no more use than the other plant
And yet
it's a sad thing, my dear, to lose so much when we had set our hearts upon it
So it is
Worse luck
Fagin
is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it's safely done from the outside
Yes
Is it a bargain
Yes, my dear, yes
Then
let it come off as soon as you like. Toby and me were over the garden-wall the night afore last, sounding the panels of the door and shutters. The crib's barred up at night like a jail; but there's one part we can crack, safe and softly
Which is that, Bill
Why
as you cross the lawn
Yes
Umph
Never mind which part it is. You can't do it without me, I know; but it's best to be on the safe side when one deals with you
Is there no help wanted, but yours and Toby's
None
Cept a centre-bit and a boy. The first we've both got; the second you must find us
A boy
Oh! then it's a panel, eh
Never mind wot it is
un. Lord
prentice of him. And so they go on
so they go on; and, if they'd got money enough (which it's a Providence they haven't,) we shouldn't have half a dozen boys left in the whole trade, in a year or two
No more we should
Bill
What now
You don't want any beer
I tell you I do
Nonsense
Go on, Fagin. I know what he's going to say, Bill; he needn't mind me
Why, you don't mind the old girl, do you, Fagin
You've known her long enough to trust her, or the Devil's in it. She ain't one to blab. Are you Nancy
_I_ should think not
No, no, my dear, I know you're not
but
But wot
I didn't know whether she mightn't p'r'aps be out of sorts, you know, my dear, as she was the other night
Keep the game a-going
Never say die
Now, Fagin
Tell Bill at once, about Oliver
Ha! you're a clever one, my dear: the sharpest girl I ever saw
It WAS about Oliver I was going to speak, sure enough. Ha! ha! ha
What about him
He's the boy for you, my dear
He
Have him, Bill
I would, if I was in your place. He mayn't be so much up, as any of the others; but that's not what you want, if he's only to open a door for you. Depend upon it he's a safe one, Bill
I know he is
He's been in good training these last few weeks, and it's time he began to work for his bread. Besides, the others are all too big
Well, he is just the size I want
And will do everything you want, Bill, my dear
he can't help himself. That is, if you frighten him enough
Frighten him
It'll be no sham frightening, mind you. If there's anything queer about him when we once get into the work; in for a penny, in for a pound. You won't see him alive again, Fagin. Think of that, before you send him. Mark my words
I've thought of it all
Ours
Yours, you mean
Perhaps I do, my dear
Mine, if you like, Bill
And wot
wot makes you take so much pains about one chalk-faced kid, when you know there are fifty boys snoozing about Common Garden every night, as you might pick and choose from
Because they're of no use to me, my dear
not worth the taking. Their looks convict 'em when they get into trouble, and I lose 'em all. With this boy, properly managed, my dears, I could do what I couldn't with twenty of them. Besides
he has us now if he could only give us leg-bail again; and he must be in the same boat with us. Never mind how he came there; it's quite enough for my power over him that he was in a robbery; that's all I want. Now, how much better this is, than being obliged to put the poor leetle boy out of the way -- which would be dangerous, and we should lose by it besides
When is it to be done
Ah, to be sure
when is it to be done, Bill
I planned with Toby, the night arter to-morrow
if he heerd nothing from me to the contrairy
Good
there's no moon
No
It's all arranged about bringing off the swag, is it
And about
Oh, ah, it's all planned
Never mind particulars. You'd better bring the boy here to-morrow night. I shall get off the stone an hour arter daybreak. Then you hold your tongue, and keep the melting-pot ready, and that's all you'll have to do
Good-night, Nancy
Good-night
Always the way
The worst of these women is, that a very little thing serves to call up some long-forgotten feeling; and, the best of them is, that it never lasts. Ha! ha! The man against the child, for a bag of gold
Is Oliver a-bed? I want to speak to him
Hours ago
Here he is
Not now
To-morrow. To-morrow
To -- to -- stop there, sir
No, no, my dear. Not to stop there
We shouldn't like to lose you. Don't be afraid, Oliver, you shall come back to us again. Ha! ha! ha! We won't be so cruel as to send you away, my dear. Oh no, no
I suppose
you want to know what you're going to Bill's for --- eh, my dear
Why, do you think
Indeed I don't know, sir
Bah
Wait till Bill tells you, then
You may burn a candle
And here's a book for you to read, till they come to fetch you. Good-night
Good-night
Take heed, Oliver! take heed
He's a rough man, and thinks nothing of blood when his own is up. Whatever falls out, say nothing; and do what he bids you. Mind
What's that
Who's there
Me. Only me
Put down the light
It hurts my eyes
God forgive me
I never thought of this
Has anything happened
Can I help you? I will if I can. I will, indeed
Nancy
What is it
I don't know what comes over me sometimes
it's this damp dirty room, I think. Now, Nolly, dear, are you ready
Am I to go with you
Yes. I have come from Bill
You are to go with me
What for
What for
Oh! For no harm
I don't believe it
Have it your own way
For no good, then
Hush
You can't help yourself. I have tried hard for you, but all to no purpose. You are hedged round and round. If ever you are to get loose from here, this is not the time
I have saved you from being ill-used once, and I will again, and I do now
for those who would have fetched you, if I had not, would have been far more rough than me. I have promised for your being quiet and silent; if you are not, you will only do harm to yourself and me too, and perhaps be my death. See here! I have borne all this for you already, as true as God sees me show it
Remember this! And don't let me suffer more for you, just now. If I could help you, I would; but I have not the power. They don't mean to harm you; whatever they make you do, is no fault of yours. Hush! Every word from you is a blow for me. Give me your hand. Make haste! Your hand
This way
Bill
Hallo
Oh! That's the time of day. Come on
Bull's-eye's gone home with Tom
He'd have been in the way
That's right
So you've got the kid
Yes, here he is
Did he come quiet
Like a lamb
I'm glad to hear it
Now, first: do you know wot this is
Well, then, look here
Now it's loaded
Yes, I see it is, sir
Well
if you speak a word when you're out o'doors with me, except when I speak to you, that loading will be in your head without notice. So, if you _do_ make up your mind to speak without leave, say your prayers first
As near as I know, there isn't anybody as would be asking very partickler arter you, if you _was_ disposed of; so I needn't take this devil-and-all of trouble to explain matters to you, if it warn't for your own good. D'ye hear me
The short and the long of what you mean
is, that if you're crossed by him in this job you have on hand, you'll prevent his ever telling tales afterwards, by shooting him through the head, and will take your chance of swinging for it, as you do for a great many other things in the way of business, every month of your life
That's it
women can always put things in fewest words.-- Except when it's blowing up; and then they lengthens it out. And now that he's thoroughly up to it, let's have some supper, and get a snooze before starting
Now, then
half-past five! Look sharp, or you'll get no breakfast; for it's late as it is
un
hard upon seven! you must step out. Come, don't lag behind already, Lazy-legs
Jump up
Is that your boy
Yes; he's my boy
Your father walks rather too quick for you, don't he, my man
Not a bit of it
Good-bye, boy
He's sulky
he's sulky. A young dog! Don't mind him
Not I
It's a fine day, after all
Hampton
So, you're going on to Lower Halliford, are you
Yes, I am
un
Could you give my boy and me a lift as far as there
If you're going directly, I can
Are you going to Halliford
Going on to Shepperton
I'm your man, as far as I go
Is all paid, Becky
Yes, the other gentleman's paid
I say
that won't do, you know
Why not
You're a-going to accommodate us, and wot's to prevent my standing treat for a pint or so, in return
to bear him up
The water
He has brought me to this lonely place to murder me
Hallo
Don't make such a row
Show a glim, Toby
Aha! my pal
A glim, Barney, a glim! Show the gentleman in, Barney; wake up first, if convenient
Do you hear
There's Bill Sikes in the passage with nobody to do the civil to him; and you sleeping there, as if you took laudanum with your meals, and nothing stronger. Are you any fresher now, or do you want the iron candlestick to wake you thoroughly
Bister Sikes
cub id, sir; cub id
Here! you get on first
Quicker! or I shall tread upon your heels
Bill, my boy
I'm glad to see you. I was almost afraid you'd given it up: in which case I should have made a personal wentur. Hallo
The boy. Only the boy
Wud of Bister Fagid's lads
Fagin's, eh
Wot an inwalable boy that'll make, for the old ladies' pockets in chapels! His mug is a fortin' to him
There -- there's enough of that
Now
if you'll give us something to eat and drink while we're waiting, you'll put some heart in us; or in me, at all events. Sit down by the fire, younker, and rest yourself; for you'll have to go out with us again to-night, though not very far off
Here
Success to the crack
A drain for the boy
Down with it, innocence
Indeed
indeed, I
Down with it
Do you think I don't know what's good for you? Tell him to drink it, Bill
He had better
Burn my body, if he isn't more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers. Drink it, you perwerse imp; drink it
Barkers for me, Barney
Here they are
You loaded them yourself
All right
The persuaders
I've got 'em
Crape, keys, centre-bits, darkies -- nothing forgotten
All right
Bring them bits of timber, Barney. That's the time of day
Now then
Take his other hand, Toby
Look out, Barney
Slap through the town
there'll be nobody in the way, to-night, to see us
The boy next
Hoist him up; I'll catch hold of him
Get up
Get up, or I'll strew your brains upon the grass
Oh! for God's sake let me go
let me run away and die in the fields. I will never come near London; never, never! Oh! pray have mercy on me, and do not make me steal. For the love of all the bright Angels that rest in Heaven, have mercy upon me
Hush
it won't answer here. Say another word, and I'll do your business myself with a crack on the head. That makes no noise, and is quite as certain, and more genteel. Here, Bill, wrench the shutter open. He's game enough now, I'll engage. I've seen older hands of his age took the same way, for a minute or two, on a cold night
Now listen, you young limb
I'm a going to put you through there. Take this light; go softly up the steps straight afore you, and along the little hall, to the street door; unfasten it, and let us in
There's a bolt at the top, you won't be able to reach
Stand upon one of the hall chairs. There are three there, Bill, with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on 'em: which is the old lady's arms
Keep quiet, can't you
The room-door is open, is it
Wide
The game of that is, that they always leave it open with a catch, so that the dog, who's got a bed in here, may walk up and down the passage when he feels wakeful. Ha! ha! Barney 'ticed him away to-night. So neat
Take this lantern
You see the stairs afore you
Yes
It's done in a minute
Directly I leave go of you, do your work. Hark
What's that
Nothing
Now
Come back
Back! back
Clasp your arm tighter
Give me a shawl here. They've hit him. Quick! How the boy bleeds
Well
I'm sure we have all on us a great deal to be grateful for! A great deal, if we did but know it. Ah
Drat the pot
a little stupid thing, that only holds a couple of cups! What use is it of, to anybody! Except
except to a poor desolate creature like me. Oh dear
I shall never get another
I shall never get another -- like him
Oh, come in with you
Some of the old women dying, I suppose. They always die when I'm at meals. Don't stand there, letting the cold air in, don't. What's amiss now, eh
Nothing, ma'am, nothing
Dear me
is that Mr. Bumble
At your service, ma'am
Shall I shut the door, ma'am
Hard weather, Mr. Bumble
Hard, indeed, ma'am
Anti-porochial weather this, ma'am. We have given away, Mrs. Corney, we have given away a matter of twenty quartern loaves and a cheese and a half, this very blessed afternoon; and yet them paupers are not contented
Of course not. When would they be, Mr. Bumble
When, indeed, ma'am
Why here's one man that, in consideration of his wife and large family, has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese, full weight. Is he grateful, ma'am? Is he grateful? Not a copper farthing's worth of it! What does he do, ma'am, but ask for a few coals; if it's only a pocket handkerchief full, he says! Coals! What would he do with coals? Toast his cheese with 'em and then come back for more. That's the way with these people, ma'am; give 'em a apron full of coals to-day, and they'll come back for another, the day after to-morrow, as brazen as alabaster
I never
see anything like the pitch it's got to. The day afore yesterday, a man -- you have been a married woman, ma'am, and I may mention it to you -- a man, with hardly a rag upon his back (here Mrs. Corney looked at the floor), goes to our overseer's door when he has got company coming to dinner; and says, he must be relieved, Mrs. Corney. As he wouldn't go away, and shocked the company very much, our overseer sent him out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal. "My heart!" says the ungrateful villain, "what's the use of _this_ to me? You might as well give me a pair of iron spectacles!" "Very good," says our overseer, taking 'em away again, "you won't get anything else here." "Then I'll die in the streets!" says the vagrant. "Oh no, you won't," says our overseer
Ha! ha! That was very good! So like Mr. Grannett, wasn't it
Well, Mr. Bumble
Well, ma'am
he went away; and he _did_ die in the streets. There's a obstinate pauper for you
It beats anything I could have believed
But don't you think out-of-door relief a very bad thing, any way, Mr. Bumble? You're a gentleman of experience, and ought to know. Come
Mrs. Corney
out-of-door relief, properly managed: properly managed, ma'am: is the porochial safeguard. The great principle of out-of-door relief is, to give the paupers exactly what they don't want; and then they get tired of coming
Dear me
Well, that is a good one, too
Yes. Betwixt you and me, ma'am
that's the great principle; and that's the reason why, if you look at any cases that get into them owdacious newspapers, you'll always observe that sick families have been relieved with slices of cheese. That's the rule now, Mrs. Corney, all over the country. But, however
these are official secrets, ma'am; not to be spoken of; except, as I may say, among the porochial officers, such as ourselves. This is the port wine, ma'am, that the board ordered for the infirmary; real, fresh, genuine port wine; only out of the cask this forenoon; clear as a bell, and no sediment
You'll have a very cold walk, Mr. Bumble
It blows, ma'am
enough to cut one's ears off
Sweet? Mr. Bumble
Very sweet, indeed, ma'am
You have a cat, ma'am, I see
and kittens too, I declare
I am so fond of them, Mr. Bumble, you can't think
They're _so_ happy, _so_ frolicsome, and _so_ cheerful, that they are quite companions for me
Very nice animals, ma'am
so very domestic
Oh, yes
so fond of their home too, that it's quite a pleasure, I'm sure
Mrs. Corney, ma'am
I mean to say this, ma'am; that any cat, or kitten, that could live with you, ma'am, and _not_ be fond of its home, must be a ass, ma'am
Oh, Mr. Bumble
It's of no use disguising facts, ma'am
I would drown it myself, with pleasure
Then you're a cruel man
and a very hard-hearted man besides
Hard-hearted, ma'am
Hard
Hard-hearted, Mrs. Corney
are _you_ hard-hearted, Mrs. Corney
Dear me
what a very curious question from a single man. What can you want to know for, Mr. Bumble
Mr. Bumble
Mr. Bumble, I shall scream
If you please, mistress
Old Sally is a-going fast
Well, what's that to me
I can't keep her alive, can I
No, no, mistress
nobody can; she's far beyond the reach of help. I've seen a many people die; little babes and great strong men; and I know when death's a-coming, well enough. But she's troubled in her mind: and when the fits are not on her,-- and that's not often, for she is dying very hard,-- she says she has got something to tell, which you must hear. She'll never die quiet till you come, mistress
Cold night, Mrs. Corney
Very cold, indeed, sir
You should get better coals out of your contractors
these are not at all the sort of thing for a cold night
They're the board's choosing, sir
The least they could do, would be to keep us pretty warm: for our places are hard enough
Oh
it's all U.P. there, Mrs. Corney
It is, is it, sir
If she lasts a couple of hours, I shall be surprised
It's a break-up of the system altogether. Is she dozing, old lady
Then perhaps she'll go off in that way, if you don't make a row
Put the light on the floor. She won't see it there
Did she say any more, Anny dear, while I was gone
Not a word
She plucked and tore at her arms for a little time; but I held her hands, and she soon dropped off. She hasn't much strength in her, so I easily kept her quiet. I ain't so weak for an old woman, although I am on parish allowance; no, no
Did she drink the hot wine the doctor said she was to have
I tried to get it down
But her teeth were tight set, and she clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again. So I drank it; and it did me good
I mind the time
when she would have done the same, and made rare fun of it afterwards
Ay, that she would
she had a merry heart. 'A many, many, beautiful corpses she laid out, as nice and neat as waxwork. My old eyes have seen them -- ay, and those old hands touched them too; for I have helped her, scores of times
Not long, mistress
We have none of us long to wait for Death. Patience, patience! He'll be here soon enough for us all
Hold your tongue, you doting idiot
You, Martha, tell me; has she been in this way before
Often
But will never be again
that is, she'll never wake again but once -- and mind, mistress, that won't be for long
Long or short
she won't find me here when she does wake; take care, both of you, how you worry me again for nothing. It's no part of my duty to see all the old women in the house die, and I won't -- that's more. Mind that, you impudent old harridans. If you make a fool of me again, I'll soon cure you, I warrant you
Who's that
Hush, hush
Lie down, lie down
I'll never lie down again alive
I _will_ tell her! Come here! Nearer! Let me whisper in your ear
Turn them away
make haste! make haste
Now listen to me
Never mind the year
what about her
Ay
what about her?-- what about -- I know
I robbed her, so I did! She wasn't cold -- I tell you she wasn't cold, when I stole it
Stole what, for God's sake
_It_
The only thing she had. She wanted clothes to keep her warm, and food to eat; but she had kept it safe, and had it in her bosom. It was gold, I tell you! Rich gold, that might have saved her life
Gold
Go on, go on -- yes -- what of it? Who was the mother? When was it
She charge me to keep it safe
and trusted me as the only woman about her. I stole it in my heart when she first showed it me hanging round her neck; and the child's death, perhaps, is on me besides! They would have treated him better, if they had known it all
Known what
Speak
The boy grew so like his mother
that I could never forget it when I saw his face. Poor girl! poor girl! She was so young, too! Such a gentle lamb! Wait; there's more to tell. I have not told you all, have I
No, no
Be quick, or it may be too late
The mother
the mother, when the pains of death first came upon her, whispered in my ear that if her baby was born alive, and thrived, the day might come when it would not feel so much disgraced to hear its poor young mother named. "And oh, kind Heaven!" she said, folding her thin hands together, "whether it be boy or girl, raise up some friends for it in this troubled world, and take pity upon a lonely desolate child, abandoned to its mercy
The boy's name
They _called_ him Oliver
The gold I stole was
Yes, yes -- what
Stone dead
And nothing to tell, after all
blowed
That's two doubles and the rub
I never see such a feller as you, Jack; you win everything. Even when we've good cards, Charley and I can't make nothing of 'em
Matter, Fagin
I wish you had watched the play. Tommy Chitling hasn't won a point; and I went partners with him against the Artfull and dumb
Ay, ay
Try 'em again, Tom; try 'em again
No more of it for me, thank 'ee, Fagin
I've had enough. That 'ere Dodger has such a run of luck that there's no standing again' him
Ha! ha! my dear
you must get up very early in the morning, to win against the Dodger
Morning
you must put your boots on over-night, and have a telescope at each eye, and a opera-glass between your shoulders, if you want to come over him
How precious dull you are, Tommy
What do you think he's thinking of, Fagin
How should I know, my dear
About his losses, maybe; or the little retirement in the country that he's just left, eh? Ha! ha! Is that it, my dear
Not a bit of it
What do _you_ say, Charley
_I_ should say
that he was uncommon sweet upon Betsy. See how he's a-blushing! Oh, my eye! here's a merry-go-rounder! Tommy Chitling's in love! Oh, Fagin, Fagin! what a spree
Never mind him, my dear
Betsy's a fine girl. Stick up to her, Tom. Stick up to her
What I mean to say, Fagin
is, that that isn't anything to anybody here
No more it is
Charley will talk. Don't mind him, my dear; don't mind him. Betsy's a fine girl. Do as she bids you, Tom, and you will make your fortune
So I _do_ do as she bids me
I shouldn't have been milled, if it hadn't been for her advice. But it turned out a good job for you; didn't it, Fagin! And what's six weeks of it? It must come, some time or another, and why not in the winter time when you don't want to go out a-walking so much; eh, Fagin
Ah, to be sure, my dear
You wouldn't mind it again, Tom, would you
if Bet was all right
I mean to say that I shouldn't
There, now. Ah! Who'll say as much as that, I should like to know; eh, Fagin
Nobody, my dear
not a soul, Tom. I don't know one of 'em that would do it besides you; not one of 'em, my dear
I might have got clear off, if I'd split upon her; mightn't I, Fagin
A word from me would have done it; wouldn't it, Fagin
To be sure it would, my dear
But I didn't blab it; did I, Fagin
No, no, to be sure
you were too stout-hearted for that. A deal too stout, my dear
Perhaps I was
and if I was, what's to laugh at, in that; eh, Fagin
Hark
I heard the tinkler
What
alone
Where is he
Yes
bring him down. Hush! Quiet, Charley! Gently, Tom! Scarce, scarce
How are you, Faguey
Pop that shawl away in my castor, Dodger, so that I may know where to find it when I cut; that's the time of day! You'll be a fine young cracksman afore the old file now
See there, Faguey
not a drop of Day and Martin since you know when; not a bubble of blacking, by Jove! But don't look at me in that way, man. All in good time. I can't talk about business till I've eat and drank; so produce the sustainance, and let's have a quiet fill-out for the first time these three days
First and foremost, Faguey
Yes, yes
First and foremost, Faguey
how's Bill
What
Why, you don't mean to say
Mean
Where are they? Sikes and the boy! Where are they? Where have they been? Where are they hiding? Why have they not been here
The crack failed
I know it
What more
They fired and hit the boy. We cut over the fields at the back, with him between us -- straight as the crow flies -- through hedge and ditch. They gave chase. Damme! the whole country was awake, and the dogs upon us
The boy
Bill had him on his back, and scudded like the wind. We stopped to take him between us; his head hung down, and he was cold. They were close upon our heels; every man for himself, and each from the gallows! We parted company, and left the youngster lying in a ditch. Alive or dead, that's all I know about him
Why, the sight of you, Mr. Fagin, would cure the hoptalmy
The neighbourhood was a little too hot, Lively
Well, I've heerd that complaint of it, once or twice before
but it soon cools down again; don't you find it so
At the Cripples
Let me see
Yes, there's some half-dozen of 'em gone in, that I knows. I don't think your friend's there
Sikes is not, I suppose
_Non istwentus_, as the lawyers say
Have you got anything in my line to-night
Nothing to-night
Are you going up to the Cripples, Fagin
Stop! I don't mind if I have a drop there with you
What can I do for you, Mr. Fagin
Won't you join us? They'll be delighted, every one of 'em
Is _he_ here
No
And no news of Barney
None
He won't stir till it's all safe. Depend on it, they're on the scent down there; and that if he moved, he'd blow upon the thing at once. He's all right enough, Barney is, else I should have heard of him. I'll pound it, that Barney's managing properly. Let him alone for that
Will _he_ be here to-night
Monks, do you mean
Hush
Yes
Certain
I expected him here before now. If you'll wait ten minutes, he'll be
No, no
Tell him I came here to see him; and that he must come to me to-night. No, say to-morrow. As he is not here, to-morrow will be time enough
Good
Nothing more
Not a word now
I say
what a time this would be for a sell! I've got Phil Barker here: so drunk, that a boy might take him
Ah! But it's not Phil Barker's time
Phil has something more to do, before we can afford to part with him; so go back to the company, my dear, and tell them to lead merry lives -- _while they last_. Ha! ha! ha
Now
if there is any deep play here, I shall have it out of you, my girl, cunning as you are
She has been drinking
or perhaps she is only miserable
And where should you think Bill was now, my dear
And the boy, too
Poor leetle child! Left in a ditch, Nance; only think
The child
is better where he is, than among us; and if no harm comes to Bill from it, I hope he lies dead in the ditch and that his young bones may rot there
What
Ay, I do
I shall be glad to have him away from my eyes, and to know that the worst is over. I can't bear to have him about me. The sight of him turns me against myself, and all of you
Pooh
You're drunk
Am I
It's no fault of yours, if I am not! You'd never have me anything else, if you had your will, except now;-- the humour doesn't suit you, doesn't it
No
It does not
Change it, then
Change it
I _will_ change it! Listen to me, you drab. Listen to me, who with six words, can strangle Sikes as surely as if I had his bull's throat between my fingers now. If he comes back, and leaves the boy behind him; if he gets off free, and dead or alive, fails to restore him to me; murder him yourself if you would have him escape Jack Ketch. And do it the moment he sets foot in this room, or mind me, it will be too late
What is all this
What is it
When the boy's worth hundreds of pounds to me, am I to lose what chance threw me in the way of getting safely, through the whims of a drunken gang that I could whistle away the lives of! And me bound, too, to a born devil that only wants the will, and has the power to, to
Nancy, dear
Did you mind me, dear
Don't worry me now, Fagin
If Bill has not done it this time, he will another. He has done many a good job for you, and will do many more when he can; and when he can't he won't; so no more about that
Regarding this boy, my dear
The boy must take his chance with the rest
and I say again, I hope he is dead, and out of harm's way, and out of yours,-- that is, if Bill comes to no harm. And if Toby got clear off, Bill's pretty sure to be safe; for Bill's worth two of Toby any time
And about what I was saying, my dear
Your must say it all over again, if it's anything you want me to do
and if it is, you had better wait till to-morrow. You put me up for a minute; but now I'm stupid again
Never say die
Fagin
Ah
is that
Yes
I have been lingering here these two hours. Where the devil have you been
On your business, my dear
On your business all night
Oh, of course
Well; and what's come of it
Nothing good
Nothing bad, I hope
It's as dark as the grave
Make haste
Shut the door
That wasn't my doing
The wind blew it to, or it shut of its own accord: one or the other. Look sharp with the light, or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole
We can say the few words we've got to say in here, my dear
and as there are holes in the shutters, and we never show lights to our neighbours, we'll set the candle on the stairs. There
I tell you again, it was badly planned. Why not have kept him here among the rest, and made a sneaking, snivelling pickpocket of him at once
Only hear him
Why, do you mean to say you couldn't have done it, if you had chosen
Haven't you done it, with other boys, scores of times? If you had had patience for a twelvemonth, at most, couldn't you have got him convicted, and sent safely out of the kingdom; perhaps for life
Whose turn would that have served, my dear
Mine
But not mine
He might have become of use to me. When there are two parties to a bargain, it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted; is it, my good friend
What then
I saw it was not easy to train him to the business
he was not like other boys in the same circumstances
Curse him, no
or he would have been a thief, long ago
I had no hold upon him to make him worse
His hand was not in. I had nothing to frighten him with; which we always must have in the beginning, or we labour in vain. What could I do? Send him out with the Dodger and Charley? We had enough of that, at first, my dear; I trembled for us all
_That_ was not my doing
No, no, my dear
And I don't quarrel with it now; because, if it had never happened, you might never have clapped eyes on the boy to notice him, and so led to the discovery that it was him you were looking for. Well! I got him back for you by means of the girl; and then _she_ begins to favour him
Throttle the girl
Why, we can't afford to do that just now, my dear
and, besides, that sort of thing is not in our way; or, one of these days, I might be glad to have it done. I know what these girls are, Monks, well. As soon as the boy begins to harden, she'll care no more for him, than for a block of wood. You want him made a thief. If he is alive, I can make him one from this time; and, if -- if --' said the Jew, drawing nearer to the other
It's no fault of mine if he is
Mind that. Fagin! I had no hand in it. Anything but his death, I told you from the first. I won't shed blood; it's always found out, and haunts a man besides. If they shot him dead, I was not the cause; do you hear me? Fire this infernal den! What's that
What
Where
Yonder! replied the man, glaring at the opposite wall. 'The shadow! I saw the shadow of a woman, in a cloak and bonnet, pass along the wainscot like a breath
It's your fancy
I'll swear I saw it
It was bending forward when I saw it first; and when I spoke, it darted away
What do you think now
Besides ourselves, there's not a creature in the house except Toby and the boys; and they're safe enough. See here
I'll do it
Mrs. Corney
what is this, ma'am? Has anything happened, ma'am? Pray answer me: I'm on -- on --' Mr. Bumble, in his alarm, could not immediately think of the word 'tenterhooks
broken bottles
Oh, Mr. Bumble
I have been so dreadfully put out
Put out, ma'am
who has dared to --? I know
this is them wicious paupers
It's dreadful to think of
Then _don't_ think of it, ma'am
I can't help it
Then take something, ma'am
A little of the wine
Not for the world
I couldn't,-- oh! The top shelf in the right-hand corner -- oh
I'm better now
Peppermint
Try it! There's a little -- a little something else in it
It's very comforting
Very much so indeed, ma'am
Nothing
I am a foolish, excitable, weak creetur
Not weak, ma'am
Are you a weak creetur, Mrs. Corney
We are all weak creeturs
So we are
We are all weak creeturs
Don't sigh, Mrs. Corney
I can't help it
This is a very comfortable room, ma'am
Another room, and this, ma'am, would be a complete thing
It would be too much for one
But not for two, ma'am
Eh, Mrs. Corney
The board allows you coals, don't they, Mrs. Corney
And candles
Coals, candles, and house-rent free
Oh, Mrs. Corney, what an Angel you are
Such porochial perfection
You know that Mr. Slout is worse to-night, my fascinator
Yes
He can't live a week, the doctor says
He is the master of this establishment; his death will cause a wacancy; that wacancy must be filled up. Oh, Mrs. Corney, what a prospect this opens! What a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings
The little word
The one little, little, little word, my blessed Corney
Ye -- ye -- yes
One more
compose your darling feelings for only one more. When is it to come off
a irresistible duck
Very good
I'll call at Sowerberry's as I go home, and tell him to send to-morrow morning. Was it that as frightened you, love
It wasn't anything particular, dear
It must have been something, love
Won't you tell your own B
Not now
one of these days. After we're married, dear
After we're married
It wasn't any impudence from any of them male paupers as
No, no, love
If I thought it was
if I thought as any one of 'em had dared to lift his wulgar eyes to that lovely countenance
They wouldn't have dared to do it, love
They had better not
Let me see any man, porochial or extra-porochial, as would presume to do it; and I can tell him that he wouldn't do it a second time
Here's a delicious fat one, Noah, dear
try him, do; only this one
What a delicious thing is a oyster
What a pity it is, a number of 'em should ever make you feel uncomfortable; isn't it, Charlotte
It's quite a cruelty
So it is
An't yer fond of oysters
Not overmuch
I like to see you eat 'em, Noah dear, better than eating 'em myself
Lor
how queer
Have another
Here's one with such a beautiful, delicate beard
I can't manage any more
I'm very sorry. Come here, Charlotte, and I'll kiss yer
What
Say that again, sir
Say it again, you wile, owdacious fellow
How dare you mention such a thing, sir? And how dare you encourage him, you insolent minx? Kiss her
Faugh
I didn't mean to do it
She's always a-kissing of me, whether I like it, or not
Oh, Noah
Yer are; yer know yer are
She's always a-doin' of it, Mr. Bumble, sir; she chucks me under the chin, please, sir; and makes all manner of love
Silence
Take yourself downstairs, ma'am. Noah, you shut up the shop; say another word till your master comes home, at your peril; and, when he does come home, tell him that Mr. Bumble said he was to send a old woman's shell after breakfast to-morrow morning. Do you hear sir? Kissing
The sin and wickedness of the lower orders in this porochial district is frightful! If Parliament don't take their abominable courses under consideration, this country's ruined, and the character of the peasantry gone for ever
Wolves tear your throats
I wish I was among some of you; you'd howl the hoarser for it
Stop, you white-livered hound
Stop
Bear a hand with the boy
Come back
Quicker
Don't play booty with me
It's all up, Bill
drop the kid, and show 'em your heels
Ho, ho, there
Pincher! Neptune! Come here, come here
My advice, or, leastways, I should say, my _orders_, is
that we 'mediately go home again
I am agreeable to anything which is agreeable to Mr. Giles
I shouldn't wish to appear ill-mannered, gentlemen
Mr. Giles ought to know
Certainly
and whatever Mr. Giles says, it isn't our place to contradict him. No, no, I know my sitiwation! Thank my stars, I know my sitiwation
You are afraid, Brittles
I an't
You are
You're a falsehood, Mr. Giles
You're a lie, Brittles
I'll tell you what it is, gentlemen
we're all afraid
Speak for yourself, sir
So I do
It's natural and proper to be afraid, under such circumstances. I am
So am I
only there's no call to tell a man he is, so bounceably
But it's wonderful
what a man will do, when his blood is up. I should have committed murder -- I know I should -- if we'd caught one of them rascals
I know what it was
it was the gate
I shouldn't wonder if it was
You may depend upon it
that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement. I felt all mine suddenly going away, as I was climbing over it
It was about half-past two
or I wouldn't swear that it mightn't have been a little nearer three, when I woke up, and, turning round in my bed, as it might be so, (here Mr. Giles turned round in his chair, and pulled the corner of the table-cloth over him to imitate bed-clothes,) I fancied I heerd a noise
Heerd a noise
I says, at first, "This is illusion"; and was composing myself off to sleep, when I heerd the noise again, distinct
What sort of a noise
A kind of a busting noise
More like the noise of powdering a iron bar on a nutmeg-grater
It was, when _you_ heerd it, sir
sat up in bed; and listened
Lor
I heerd it now, quite apparent
Somebody," I says, "is forcing of a door, or window; what's to be done? I'll call up that poor lad, Brittles, and save him from being murdered in his bed; or his throat," I says, "may be cut from his right ear to his left, without his ever knowing it
I tossed off the clothes
got softly out of bed; drew on a pair of
Ladies present, Mr. Giles
Of _shoes_, sir
seized the loaded pistol that always goes upstairs with the plate-basket; and walked on tiptoes to his room. "Brittles," I says, when I had woke him, "don't be frightened
So you did
We're dead men, I think, Brittles," I says
but don't be frightened
_Was_ he frightened
Not a bit of it
He was as firm -- ah! pretty near as firm as I was
I should have died at once, I'm sure, if it had been me
You're a woman
Brittles is right
from a woman, nothing else was to be expected. We, being men, took a dark lantern that was standing on Brittle's hob, and groped our way downstairs in the pitch dark,-- as it might be so
It was a knock
Open the door, somebody
It seems a strange sort of a thing, a knock coming at such a time in the morning
but the door must be opened. Do you hear, somebody
If Brittles would rather open the door, in the presence of witnesses
I am ready to make one
So am I
A boy
What's the matter with the -- eh?-- Why -- Brittles -- look here -- don't you know
Here he is
here's one of the thieves, ma'am! Here's a thief, miss! Wounded, miss! I shot him, miss; and Brittles held the light
In a lantern, miss
Giles
I'm here, miss
Don't be frightened, miss; I ain't much injured. He didn't make a very desperate resistance, miss! I was soon too many for him
Hush
you frighten my aunt as much as the thieves did. Is the poor creature much hurt
Wounded desperate, miss
He looks as if he was a-going, miss
Wouldn't you like to come and look at him, miss, in case he should
Hush, pray; there's a good man
Wait quietly only one instant, while I speak to aunt
But won't you take one look at him, first, miss
Not one little peep, miss
Not now, for the world
Poor fellow! Oh! treat him kindly, Giles for my sake
And Brittles has been gone upwards of an hour, has he
An hour and twelve minutes, ma'am
He is always slow
Brittles always was a slow boy, ma'am
He gets worse instead of better, I think
It is very inexcusable in him if he stops to play with any other boys
I never heard of such a thing
My dear Mrs. Maylie -- bless my soul -- in the silence of the night, too -- I _never_ heard of such a thing
You ought to be dead; positively dead with the fright
Why didn't you send? Bless me, my man should have come in a minute; and so would I; and my assistant would have been delighted; or anybody, I'm sure, under such circumstances. Dear, dear! So unexpected! In the silence of the night, too
And you, Miss Rose
I
Oh! very much so, indeed
but there is a poor creature upstairs, whom aunt wishes you to see
Ah! to be sure
so there is. That was your handiwork, Giles, I understand
Honour, eh
well, I don't know; perhaps it's as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen, as to hit your man at twelve paces. Fancy that he fired in the air, and you've fought a duel, Giles
Gad, that's true
Where is he? Show me the way. I'll look in again, as I come down, Mrs. Maylie. That's the little window that he got in at, eh? Well, I couldn't have believed it
the doctor
This is a very extraordinary thing, Mrs. Maylie
He is not in danger, I hope
Why, that would _not_ be an extraordinary thing, under the circumstances
though I don't think he is. Have you seen the thief
No
Nor heard anything about him
No
but I was going to tell you about him when Doctor Losberne came in
Rose wished to see the man
but I wouldn't hear of it
Humph
There is nothing very alarming in his appearance. Have you any objection to see him in my presence
If it be necessary
certainly not
Then I think it is necessary
at all events, I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so, if you postponed it. He is perfectly quiet and comfortable now. Allow me -- Miss Rose, will you permit me? Not the slightest fear, I pledge you my honour
Now
let us hear what you think of him. He has not been shaved very recently, but he don't look at all ferocious notwithstanding. Stop, though! Let me first see that he is in visiting order
What can this mean
This poor child can never have been the pupil of robbers
Vice
takes up her abode in many temples; and who can say that a fair outside shell not enshrine her
But at so early an age
My dear young lady
crime, like death, is not confined to the old and withered alone. The youngest and fairest are too often its chosen victims
But, can you -- oh! can you really believe that this delicate boy has been the voluntary associate of the worst outcasts of society
But even if he has been wicked
think how young he is; think that he may never have known a mother's love, or the comfort of a home; that ill-usage and blows, or the want of bread, may have driven him to herd with men who have forced him to guilt. Aunt, dear aunt, for mercy's sake, think of this, before you let them drag this sick child to a prison, which in any case must be the grave of all his chances of amendment. Oh! as you love me, and know that I have never felt the want of parents in your goodness and affection, but that I might have done so, and might have been equally helpless and unprotected with this poor child, have pity upon him before it is too late
My dear love
do you think I would harm a hair of his head
Oh, no
No, surely
my days are drawing to their close: and may mercy be shown to me as I show it to others! What can I do to save him, sir
Let me think, ma'am
let me think
no, I haven't
I think if you give me a full and unlimited commission to bully Giles, and that little boy, Brittles, I can manage it. Giles is a faithful fellow and an old servant, I know; but you can make it up to him in a thousand ways, and reward him for being such a good shot besides. You don't object to that
Unless there is some other way of preserving the child
There is no other
No other, take my word for it
Then my aunt invests you with full power
but pray don't be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary
You seem to think
that everybody is disposed to be hard-hearted to-day, except yourself, Miss Rose. I only hope, for the sake of the rising male sex generally, that you may be found in as vulnerable and soft-hearted a mood by the first eligible young fellow who appeals to your compassion; and I wish I were a young fellow, that I might avail myself, on the spot, of such a favourable opportunity for doing so, as the present
You are as great a boy as poor Brittles himself
Well
that is no very difficult matter. But to return to this boy. The great point of our agreement is yet to come. He will wake in an hour or so, I dare say; and although I have told that thick-headed constable-fellow downstairs that he musn't be moved or spoken to, on peril of his life, I think we may converse with him without danger. Now I make this stipulation -- that I shall examine him in your presence, and that, if, from what he says, we judge, and I can show to the satisfaction of your cool reason, that he is a real and thorough bad one (which is more than possible), he shall be left to his fate, without any farther interference on my part, at all events
Oh no, aunt
Oh yes, aunt
Is is a bargain
He cannot be hardened in vice
It is impossible
Very good
then so much the more reason for acceding to my proposition
Sit still
Thank you, sir, said Mr. Giles. 'Misses wished some ale to be given out, sir; and as I felt no ways inclined for my own little room, sir, and was disposed for company, I am taking mine among 'em here
How is the patient to-night, sir
I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there, Mr. Giles
I hope you don't mean to say, sir
that he's going to die. If I thought it, I should never be happy again. I wouldn't cut a boy off: no, not even Brittles here; not for all the plate in the county, sir
That's not the point
Mr. Giles, are you a Protestant
Yes, sir, I hope so
And what are _you_, boy
Lord bless me, sir
I'm the same as Mr. Giles, sir
Then tell me this
both of you, both of you! Are you going to take upon yourselves to swear, that that boy upstairs is the boy that was put through the little window last night? Out with it! Come! We are prepared for you
Pay attention to the reply, constable, will you
Something may come of this before long
It's a simple question of identity, you will observe
That's what it is, sir
Here's the house broken into
and a couple of men catch one moment's glimpse of a boy, in the midst of gunpowder smoke, and in all the distraction of alarm and darkness. Here's a boy comes to that very same house, next morning, and because he happens to have his arm tied up, these men lay violent hands upon him -- by doing which, they place his life in great danger -- and swear he is the thief. Now, the question is, whether these men are justified by the fact; if not, in what situation do they place themselves
I ask you again
are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify that boy
It's the runners
The what
The Bow Street officers, sir
me and Mr. Giles sent for 'em this morning
What
Yes
I sent a message up by the coachman, and I only wonder they weren't here before, sir
You did, did you? Then confound your -- slow coaches down here; that's all
Who's that
Open the door
it's the officers from Bow Street, as was sent to to-day
Just send somebody out to relieve my mate, will you, young man
us here, that you could put it up in, for five or ten minutes
Tell your governor that Blathers and Duff is here, will you
Oh! Good-evening, master. Can I have a word or two with you in private, if you please
This is the lady of the house
Now, with regard to this here robbery, master
What are the circumstances
I can't say, for certain, till I see the work, of course
but my opinion at once is,-- I don't mind committing myself to that extent,-- that this wasn't done by a yokel; eh, Duff
Certainly not
And, translating the word yokel for the benefit of the ladies, I apprehend your meaning to be, that this attempt was not made by a countryman
That's it, master
This is all about the robbery, is it
All
Now, what is this, about this here boy that the servants are a-talking on
Nothing at all
One of the frightened servants chose to take it into his head, that he had something to do with this attempt to break into the house; but it's nonsense: sheer absurdity
Wery easy disposed of, if it is
What he says is quite correct
Who is the boy? What account does he give of himself? Where did he come from? He didn't drop out of the clouds, did he, master
Of course not
I know his whole history: but we can talk about that presently. You would like, first, to see the place where the thieves made their attempt, I suppose
Certainly
We had better inspect the premises first, and examine the servants afterwards. That's the usual way of doing business
Upon my word
I hardly know what to do
Surely
the poor child's story, faithfully repeated to these men, will be sufficient to exonerate him
I doubt it, my dear young lady
I don't think it would exonerate him, either with them, or with legal functionaries of a higher grade. What is he, after all, they would say? A runaway. Judged by mere worldly considerations and probabilities, his story is a very doubtful one
You believe it, surely
_I_ believe it, strange as it is; and perhaps I may be an old fool for doing so
but I don't think it is exactly the tale for a practical police-officer, nevertheless
Why not
Because, my pretty cross-examiner
because, viewed with their eyes, there are many ugly points about it; he can only prove the parts that look ill, and none of those that look well. Confound the fellows, they _will_ have the why and the wherefore, and will take nothing for granted. On his own showing, you see, he has been the companion of thieves for some time past; he has been carried to a police-officer, on a charge of picking a gentleman's pocket; he has been taken away, forcibly, from that gentleman's house, to a place which he cannot describe or point out, and of the situation of which he has not the remotest idea. He is brought down to Chertsey, by men who seem to have taken a violent fancy to him, whether he will or no; and is put through a window to rob a house; and then, just at the very moment when he is going to alarm the inmates, and so do the very thing that would set him all to rights, there rushes into the way, a blundering dog of a half-bred butler, and shoots him! As if on purpose to prevent his doing any good for himself! Don't you see all this
I see it, of course
but still I do not see anything in it, to criminate the poor child
No
of course not! Bless the bright eyes of your sex! They never see, whether for good or bad, more than one side of any question; and that is, always, the one which first presents itself to them
The more I think of it
the more I see that it will occasion endless trouble and difficulty if we put these men in possession of the boy's real story. I am certain it will not be believed; and even if they can do nothing to him in the end, still the dragging it forward, and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it, must interfere, materially, with your benevolent plan of rescuing him from misery
Oh! what is to be done
Dear, dear! why did they send for these people
Why, indeed
I would not have had them here, for the world
All I know is
that we must try and carry it off with a bold face. The object is a good one, and that must be our excuse. The boy has strong symptoms of fever upon him, and is in no condition to be talked to any more; that's one comfort. We must make the best of it; and if bad be the best, it is no fault of ours. Come in
Well, master
This warn't a put-up thing
And what the devil's a put-up thing
We call it a put-up robbery, ladies
when the servants is in it
Nobody suspected them, in this case
Wery likely not, ma'am
but they might have been in it, for all that
More likely on that wery account
We find it was a town hand
for the style of work is first-rate
Wery pretty indeed it is
There was two of 'em in it
and they had a boy with 'em; that's plain from the size of the window. That's all to be said at present. We'll see this lad that you've got upstairs at once, if you please
Perhaps they will take something to drink first, Mrs. Maylie
Oh! to be sure
You shall have it immediately, if you will
Why, thank you, miss
it's dry work, this sort of duty. Anythink that's handy, miss; don't put yourself out of the way, on our accounts
What shall it be
A little drop of spirits, master, if it's all the same
It's a cold ride from London, ma'am; and I always find that spirits comes home warmer to the feelings
Ah
I have seen a good many pieces of business like this, in my time, ladies
That crack down in the back lane at Edmonton, Blathers
That was something in this way, warn't it
that was done by Conkey Chickweed, that was
It was the Family Pet, I tell you. Conkey hadn't any more to do with it than I had
Get out
I know better. Do you mind that time when Conkey was robbed of his money, though? What a start that was! Better than any novel-book _I_ ever see
What was that
It was a robbery, miss, that hardly anybody would have been down upon
This here Conkey Chickweed
Conkey means Nosey, ma'am
Of course the lady knows that, don't she
'em, to ease 'em a minute; and the very moment he did so, he hears Chickweed a-roaring out, "Here he is!" Off he starts once more, with Chickweed half-way down the street ahead of him; and after twice as long a run as the yesterday's one, the man's lost again! This was done, once or twice more, till one-half the neighbours gave out that Mr. Chickweed had been robbed by the devil, who was playing tricks with him arterwards; and the other half, that poor Mr. Chickweed had gone mad with grief
What did Jem Spyers say
Jem Spyers
for a long time said nothing at all, and listened to everything without seeming to, which showed he understood his business. But, one morning, he walked into the bar, and taking out his snuffbox, says "Chickweed, I've found out who done this here robbery." "Have you?" said Chickweed. "Oh, my dear Spyers, only let me have wengeance, and I shall die contented! Oh, my dear Spyers, where is the villain!" "Come!" said Spyers, offering him a pinch of snuff, "none of that gammon! You did it yourself." So he had; and a good bit of money he had made by it, too; and nobody would never have found it out, if he hadn't been so precious anxious to keep up appearances
Very curious, indeed
Now, if you please, you can walk upstairs
If _you_ please, sir
This
this is the lad, who, being accidently wounded by a spring-gun in some boyish trespass on Mr. What-d' ye-call-him's grounds, at the back here, comes to the house for assistance this morning, and is immediately laid hold of and maltreated, by that ingenious gentleman with the candle in his hand: who has placed his life in considerable danger, as I can professionally certify
You don't mean to deny that, I suppose
It was all done for the -- for the best, sir
I am sure I thought it was the boy, or I wouldn't have meddled with him. I am not of an inhuman disposition, sir
Thought it was what boy
The housebreaker's boy, sir
They -- they certainly had a boy
Well? Do you think so now
Think what, now
Think it's the same boy, Stupid-head
I don't know; I really don't know
I couldn't swear to him
What do you think
I don't know what to think
I don't think it is the boy; indeed, I'm almost certain that it isn't. You know it can't be
Has this man been a-drinking, sir
What a precious muddle-headed chap you are
Poor fellow
you shall have many opportunities of serving us, if you will. We are going into the country, and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us. The quiet place, the pure air, and all the pleasure and beauties of spring, will restore you in a few days. We will employ you in a hundred ways, when you can bear the trouble
The trouble
Oh! dear lady, if I could but work for you; if I could only give you pleasure by watering your flowers, or watching your birds, or running up and down the whole day long, to make you happy; what would I give to do it
You shall give nothing at all
for, as I told you before, we shall employ you in a hundred ways; and if you only take half the trouble to please us, that you promise now, you will make me very happy indeed
Happy, ma'am
how kind of you to say so
You will make me happier than I can tell you
To think that my dear good aunt should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to us, would be an unspeakable pleasure to me; but to know that the object of her goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful and attached, in consequence, would delight me, more than you can well imagine. Do you understand me
Oh yes, ma'am, yes
but I was thinking that I am ungrateful now
To whom
To the kind gentleman, and the dear old nurse, who took so much care of me before
If they knew how happy I am, they would be pleased, I am sure
I am sure they would
and Mr. Losberne has already been kind enough to promise that when you are well enough to bear the journey, he will carry you to see them
Has he, ma'am
I don't know what I shall do for joy when I see their kind faces once again
What's the matter with the boy
Do you see anything -- hear anything -- feel anything -- eh
That, sir
That house
Yes; well, what of it? Stop coachman. Pull up here
What of the house, my man; eh
The thieves -- the house they took me to
The devil it is
Hallo, there! let me out
Halloa
What's the matter here
Matter
A good deal. Robbery is the matter
There'll be Murder the matter, too
if you don't take your hands off. Do you hear me
I hear you
Where's -- confound the fellow, what's his rascally name -- Sikes; that's it. Where's Sikes, you thief
Now
what do you mean by coming into my house, in this violent way? Do you want to rob me, or to murder me? Which is it
Did you ever know a man come out to do either, in a chariot and pair, you ridiculous old vampire
What do you want, then
Will you take yourself off, before I do you a mischief? Curse you
As soon as I think proper
I shall find you out, some day, my friend
Will you
If you ever want me, I'm here. I haven't lived here mad and all alone, for five-and-twenty years, to be scared by you. You shall pay for this; you shall pay for this
Stupid enough, this
the boy must have made a mistake. Here! Put that in your pocket, and shut yourself up again
I am an ass
Did you know that before, Oliver
No, sir
Then don't forget it another time
An ass
Even if it had been the right place, and the right fellows had been there, what could I have done, single-handed? And if I had had assistance, I see no good that I should have done, except leading to my own exposure, and an unavoidable statement of the manner in which I have hushed up this business. That would have served me right, though. I am always involving myself in some scrape or other, by acting on impulse. It might have done me good
Now, my boy, which house is it
That! That
The white house. Oh! make haste! Pray make haste! I feel as if I should die: it makes me tremble so
Come, come
You will see them directly, and they will be overjoyed to find you safe and well
Oh! I hope so
They were so good to me; so very, very good to me
To Let
Knock at the next door
What has become of Mr. Brownlow, who used to live in the adjoining house, do you know
Has his housekeeper gone too
The old gentleman, the housekeeper, and a gentleman who was a friend of Mr. Brownlow's, all went together
Then turn towards home again
and don't stop to bait the horses, till you get out of this confounded London
The book-stall keeper, sir
I know the way there. See him, pray, sir! Do see him
My poor boy, this is disappointment enough for one day
Quite enough for both of us. If we go to the book-stall keeper's, we shall certainly find that he is dead, or has set his house on fire, or run away. No; home again straight
Rose, my dear
Rose, my love
What is this? In tears! My dear child, what distresses you
Nothing, aunt; nothing
I don't know what it is; I can't describe it; but I feel
Not ill, my love
No, no! Oh, not ill
I shall be better presently. Close the window, pray
My child
I never saw you so before
I would not alarm you if I could avoid it
but indeed I have tried very hard, and cannot help this. I fear I _am_ ill, aunt
I hope
that nothing is the matter? She don't look well to-night, but
I hope not, Oliver. I have been very happy with her for some years: too happy, perhaps. It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune; but I hope it is not this
What
The heavy blow
of losing the dear girl who has so long been my comfort and happiness
Oh! God forbid
Amen to that, my child
Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful
Two hours ago, she was quite well
She is very ill now
and will be worse, I am sure. My dear, dear Rose! Oh, what shall I do without her
And consider, ma'am
Oh! consider how young and good she is, and what pleasure and comfort she gives to all about her. I am sure -- certain -- quite certain -- that, for your sake, who are so good yourself; and for her own; and for the sake of all she makes so happy; she will not die. Heaven will never let her die so young
Hush
You think like a child, poor boy. But you teach me my duty, notwithstanding. I had forgotten it for a moment, Oliver, but I hope I may be pardoned, for I am old, and have seen enough of illness and death to know the agony of separation from the objects of our love. I have seen enough, too, to know that it is not always the youngest and best who are spared to those that love them; but this should give us comfort in our sorrow; for Heaven is just; and such things teach us, impressively, that there is a brighter world than this; and that the passage to it is speedy. God's will be done! I love her; and He knows how well
We must be active, Oliver, and not give way to useless grief
this letter must be sent, with all possible expedition, to Mr. Losberne. It must be carried to the market-town: which is not more than four miles off, by the footpath across the field: and thence dispatched, by an express on horseback, straight to Chertsey. The people at the inn will undertake to do this: and I can trust to you to see it done, I know
Here is another letter
but whether to send it now, or wait until I see how Rose goes on, I scarcely know. I would not forward it, unless I feared the worst
Is it for Chertsey, too, ma'am
No
Shall it go, ma'am
I think not
I will wait until to-morrow
The George
Hah
What the devil's this
I beg your pardon, sir
I was in a great hurry to get home, and didn't see you were coming
Death
Who would have thought it! Grind him to ashes! He'd start up from a stone coffin, to come in my way
I am sorry
I hope I have not hurt you
Rot you
if I had only had the courage to say the word, I might have been free of you in a night. Curses on your head, and black death on your heart, you imp! What are you doing here
In fact
it would be little short of a miracle, if she recovered
It is hard
so young; so much beloved; but there is very little hope
What of Rose
Tell me at once! I can bear it; anything but suspense! Oh, tell me! in the name of Heaven
You must compose yourself
Be calm, my dear ma'am, pray
Let me go, in God's name! My dear child! She is dead! She is dying
No
As He is good and merciful, she will live to bless us all, for years to come
Here
Oliver, what's the news? Miss Rose! Master O-li-ver
Is is you, Giles
In a word
Better or worse
Better -- much better
Thank Heaven
You are sure
Quite, sir
The change took place only a few hours ago; and Mr. Losberne says, that all danger is at an end
You are quite certain? There is no possibility of any mistake on your part, my boy, is there
Do not deceive me, by awakening hopes that are not to be fulfilled
I would not for the world, sir
Indeed you may believe me. Mr. Losberne's words were, that she would live to bless us all for many years to come. I heard him say so
I think you had better go on to my mother's in the chaise, Giles
I would rather walk slowly on, so as to gain a little time before I see her. You can say I am coming
I beg your pardon, Mr. Harry
but if you would leave the postboy to say that, I should be very much obliged to you. It wouldn't be proper for the maids to see me in this state, sir; I should never have any more authority with them if they did
Well
you can do as you like. Let him go on with the luggage, if you wish it, and do you follow with us. Only first exchange that nightcap for some more appropriate covering, or we shall be taken for madmen
Mother
why did you not write before
I did
but, on reflection, I determined to keep back the letter until I had heard Mr. Losberne's opinion
But why
why run the chance of that occurring which so nearly happened? If Rose had -- I cannot utter that word now -- if this illness had terminated differently, how could you ever have forgiven yourself! How could I ever have know happiness again
If that _had_ been the case, Harry
I fear your happiness would have been effectually blighted, and that your arrival here, a day sooner or a day later, would have been of very, very little import
And who can wonder if it be so, mother
or why should I say, _if_?-- It is -- it is -- you know it, mother -- you must know it
I know that she deserves the best and purest love the heart of man can offer
I know that the devotion and affection of her nature require no ordinary return, but one that shall be deep and lasting. If I did not feel this, and know, besides, that a changed behaviour in one she loved would break her heart, I should not feel my task so difficult of performance, or have to encounter so many struggles in my own bosom, when I take what seems to me to be the strict line of duty
This is unkind, mother
Do you still suppose that I am a boy ignorant of my own mind, and mistaking the impulses of my own soul
I think, my dear son
that youth has many generous impulses which do not last; and that among them are some, which, being gratified, become only the more fleeting. Above all, I think' said the lady, fixing her eyes on her son's face, 'that if an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious man marry a wife on whose name there is a stain, which, though it originate in no fault of hers, may be visited by cold and sordid people upon her, and upon his children also: and, in exact proportion to his success in the world, be cast in his teeth, and made the subject of sneers against him: he may, no matter how generous and good his nature, one day repent of the connection he formed in early life. And she may have the pain of knowing that he does so
Mother
he would be a selfish brute, unworthy alike of the name of man and of the woman you describe, who acted thus
You think so now, Harry
And ever will
The mental agony I have suffered, during the last two days, wrings from me the avowal to you of a passion which, as you well know, is not one of yesterday, nor one I have lightly formed. On Rose, sweet, gentle girl! my heart is set, as firmly as ever heart of man was set on woman. I have no thought, no view, no hope in life, beyond her; and if you oppose me in this great stake, you take my peace and happiness in your hands, and cast them to the wind. Mother, think better of this, and of me, and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little
Harry
it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts, that I would spare them from being wounded. But we have said enough, and more than enough, on this matter, just now
Let it rest with Rose, then
You will not press these overstrained opinions of yours, so far, as to throw any obstacle in my way
I will not
but I would have you consider
I _have_ considered
Mother, I have considered, years and years. I have considered, ever since I have been capable of serious reflection. My feelings remain unchanged, as they ever will; and why should I suffer the pain of a delay in giving them vent, which can be productive of no earthly good? No! Before I leave this place, Rose shall hear me
She shall
There is something in your manner, which would almost imply that she will hear me coldly, mother
Not coldly
far from it
How then
She has formed no other attachment
No, indeed
you have, or I mistake, too strong a hold on her affections already. What I would say
is this. Before you stake your all on this chance; before you suffer yourself to be carried to the highest point of hope; reflect for a few moments, my dear child, on Rose's history, and consider what effect the knowledge of her doubtful birth may have on her decision: devoted as she is to us, with all the intensity of her noble mind, and with that perfect sacrifice of self which, in all matters, great or trifling, has always been her characteristic
What do you mean
That I leave you to discover
I must go back to her. God bless you
I shall see you again to-night
By and by
when I leave Rose
You will tell her I am here
Of course
And say how anxious I have been, and how much I have suffered, and how I long to see her. You will not refuse to do this, mother
No
I will tell her all
Have you shot anything particular, lately, Giles
Nothing particular, sir
Nor catching any thieves, nor identifying any house-breakers
None at all, sir
Well
I am sorry to hear it, because you do that sort of thing admirably. Pray, how is Brittles
The boy is very well, sir
and sends his respectful duty, sir
That's well
Seeing you here, reminds me, Mr. Giles, that on the day before that on which I was called away so hurriedly, I executed, at the request of your good mistress, a small commission in your favour. Just step into this corner a moment, will you
Hush, my dear
it is he, sure enough. Come away
He
could I mistake him, think you? If a crowd of ghosts were to put themselves into his exact shape, and he stood amongst them, there is something that would tell me how to point him out. If you buried him fifty feet deep, and took me across his grave, I fancy I should know, if there wasn't a mark above it, that he lay buried there
The Jew! the Jew
What direction did he take
That
I missed them in an instant
Then, they are in the ditch
Follow! And keep as near me, as you can
It must have been a dream, Oliver
Oh no, indeed, sir
I saw him too plainly for that. I saw them both, as plainly as I see you now
Who was the other
The very same man I told you of, who came so suddenly upon me at the inn
We had our eyes fixed full upon each other; and I could swear to him
They took this way
are you sure
As I am that the men were at the window
The tall man leaped over, just there; and the Jew, running a few paces to the right, crept through that gap
This is strange
Strange
Blathers and Duff, themselves, could make nothing of it
A few -- a very few -- will suffice, Rose
What I shall have to say, has already presented itself to your mind; the most cherished hopes of my heart are not unknown to you, though from my lips you have not heard them stated
I -- I -- ought to have left here, before
You should, indeed
Forgive me for saying so, but I wish you had
I was brought here, by the most dreadful and agonising of all apprehensions
the fear of losing the one dear being on whom my every wish and hope are fixed. You had been dying; trembling between earth and heaven. We know that when the young, the beautiful, and good, are visited with sickness, their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting rest; we know, Heaven help us! that the best and fairest of our kind, too often fade in blooming
A creature
a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of God's own angels, fluttered between life and death. Oh! who could hope, when the distant world to which she was akin, half opened to her view, that she would return to the sorrow and calamity of this! Rose, Rose, to know that you were passing away like some soft shadow, which a light from above, casts upon the earth; to have no hope that you would be spared to those who linger here; hardly to know a reason why you should be; to feel that you belonged to that bright sphere whither so many of the fairest and the best have winged their early flight; and yet to pray, amid all these consolations, that you might be restored to those who loved you -- these were distractions almost too great to bear. They were mine, by day and night; and with them, came such a rushing torrent of fears, and apprehensions, and selfish regrets, lest you should die, and never know how devotedly I loved you, as almost bore down sense and reason in its course. You recovered. Day by day, and almost hour by hour, some drop of health came back, and mingling with the spent and feeble stream of life which circulated languidly within you, swelled it again to a high and rushing tide. I have watched you change almost from death, to life, with eyes that turned blind with their eagerness and deep affection. Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this; for it has softened my heart to all mankind
I did not mean that
I only wish you had left here, that you might have turned to high and noble pursuits again; to pursuits well worthy of you
There is no pursuit more worthy of me: more worthy of the highest nature that exists: than the struggle to win such a heart as yours
Rose, my own dear Rose! For years -- for years -- I have loved you; hoping to win my way to fame, and then come proudly home and tell you it had been pursued only for you to share; thinking, in my daydreams, how I would remind you, in that happy moment, of the many silent tokens I had given of a boy's attachment, and claim your hand, as in redemption of some old mute contract that had been sealed between us! That time has not arrived; but here, with not fame won, and no young vision realised, I offer you the heart so long your own, and stake my all upon the words with which you greet the offer
Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble
As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful, so hear my answer
It is, that I may endeavour to deserve you; it is, dear Rose
It is
that you must endeavour to forget me; not as your old and dearly-attached companion, for that would wound me deeply; but, as the object of your love. Look into the world; think how many hearts you would be proud to gain, are there. Confide some other passion to me, if you will; I will be the truest, warmest, and most faithful friend you have
And your reasons, Rose
your reasons for this decision
You have a right to know them
You can say nothing to alter my resolution. It is a duty that I must perform. I owe it, alike to others, and to myself
To yourself
Yes, Harry. I owe it to myself, that I, a friendless, portionless, girl, with a blight upon my name, should not give your friends reason to suspect that I had sordidly yielded to your first passion, and fastened myself, a clog, on all your hopes and projects. I owe it to you and yours, to prevent you from opposing, in the warmth of your generous nature, this great obstacle to your progress in the world
If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty
They do not
Then you return my love
Say but that, dear Rose; say but that; and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment
If I could have done so, without doing heavy wrong to him I loved
I could have
Have received this declaration very differently
Do not conceal that from me, at least, Rose
I could
Stay
why should we prolong this painful interview? Most painful to me, and yet productive of lasting happiness, notwithstanding; for it _will_ be happiness to know that I once held the high place in your regard which I now occupy, and every triumph you achieve in life will animate me with new fortitude and firmness. Farewell, Harry! As we have met to-day, we meet no more; but in other relations than those in which this conversation have placed us, we may be long and happily entwined; and may every blessing that the prayers of a true and earnest heart can call down from the source of all truth and sincerity, cheer and prosper you
Another word, Rose
Your reason in your own words. From your own lips, let me hear it
The prospect before you
is a brilliant one. All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help men in public life, are in store for you. But those connections are proud; and I will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the mother who gave me life; nor bring disgrace or failure on the son of her who has so well supplied that mother's place. In a word
there is a stain upon my name, which the world visits on innocent heads. I will carry it into no blood but my own; and the reproach shall rest alone on me
One word more, Rose. Dearest Rose! one more
If I had been less -- less fortunate, the world would call it -- if some obscure and peaceful life had been my destiny -- if I had been poor, sick, helpless -- would you have turned from me then? Or has my probable advancement to riches and honour, given this scruple birth
Do not press me to reply
The question does not arise, and never will. It is unfair, almost unkind, to urge it
If your answer be what I almost dare to hope it is
it will shed a gleam of happiness upon my lonely way, and light the path before me. It is not an idle thing to do so much, by the utterance of a few brief words, for one who loves you beyond all else. Oh, Rose: in the name of my ardent and enduring attachment; in the name of all I have suffered for you, and all you doom me to undergo; answer me this one question
Then, if your lot had been differently cast
if you had been even a little, but not so far, above me; if I could have been a help and comfort to you in any humble scene of peace and retirement, and not a blot and drawback in ambitious and distinguished crowds; I should have been spared this trial. I have every reason to be happy, very happy, now; but then, Harry, I own I should have been happier
I cannot help this weakness, and it makes my purpose stronger
I must leave you now, indeed
I ask one promise
Once, and only once more,-- say within a year, but it may be much sooner,-- I may speak to you again on this subject, for the last time
Not to press me to alter my right determination
it will be useless
No
to hear you repeat it, if you will -- finally repeat it! I will lay at your feet, whatever of station of fortune I may possess; and if you still adhere to your present resolution, will not seek, by word or act, to change it
Then let it be so
it is but one pang the more, and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better
And so you are resolved to be my travelling companion this morning; eh
Why, you are not in the same mind or intention two half-hours together
You will tell me a different tale one of these days
I hope I may have good cause to do so
though I confess I don't think I shall. But yesterday morning you had made up your mind, in a great hurry, to stay here, and to accompany your mother, like a dutiful son, to the sea-side. Before noon, you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go, on your road to London. And at night, you urge me, with great mystery, to start before the ladies are stirring; the consequence of which is, that young Oliver here is pinned down to his breakfast when he ought to be ranging the meadows after botanical phenomena of all kinds. Too bad, isn't it, Oliver
I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and Mr. Maylie went away, sir
That's a fine fellow
you shall come and see me when you return. But, to speak seriously, Harry; has any communication from the great nobs produced this sudden anxiety on your part to be gone
The great nobs
under which designation, I presume, you include my most stately uncle, have not communicated with me at all, since I have been here; nor, at this time of the year, is it likely that anything would occur to render necessary my immediate attendance among them
Well
you are a queer fellow. But of course they will get you into parliament at the election before Christmas, and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life. There's something in that. Good training is always desirable, whether the race be for place, cup, or sweepstakes
We shall see
Oliver
let me speak a word with you
You can write well now
I hope so, sir
I shall not be at home again, perhaps for some time; I wish you would write to me -- say once a fort-night: every alternate Monday: to the General Post Office in London. Will you
Oh! certainly, sir; I shall be proud to do it
I should like to know how -- how my mother and Miss Maylie are
and you can fill up a sheet by telling me what walks you take, and what you talk about, and whether she -- they, I mean -- seem happy and quite well. You understand me
Oh! quite, sir, quite
I would rather you did not mention it to them
because it might make my mother anxious to write to me oftener, and it is a trouble and worry to her. Let it be a secret between you and me; and mind you tell me everything! I depend upon you
Drive on
hard, fast, full gallop! Nothing short of flying will keep pace with me, to-day
Halloa
something very short of flying will keep pace with _me_. Do you hear
He seems in high spirits and happy
I feared for a time he might be otherwise. I was mistaken. I am very, very glad
And to-morrow two months it was done
It seems a age
I sold myself
for six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money. I went very reasonable. Cheap, dirt cheap
Cheap
you would have been dear at any price; and dear enough I paid for you, Lord above knows that
Mrs. Bumble, ma'am
Well
Have the goodness to look at me
said Mr. Bumble to himself, 'she can stand anything. It is a eye I never knew to fail with paupers. If it fails with her, my power is gone
Are you going to sit snoring there, all day
I am going to sit here, as long as I think proper, ma'am
and although I was _not_ snoring, I shall snore, gape, sneeze, laugh, or cry, as the humour strikes me; such being my prerogative
_Your_ prerogative
I said the word, ma'am
The prerogative of a man is to command
And what's the prerogative of a woman, in the name of Goodness
To obey, ma'am
Your late unfortunate husband should have taught it you; and then, perhaps, he might have been alive now. I wish he was, poor man
It opens the lungs, washes the countenance, exercises the eyes, and softens down the temper
So cry away
Get up
And take yourself away from here, unless you want me to do something desperate
Are you going
Certainly, my dear, certainly
I didn't intend to -- I'm going, my dear! You are so very violent, that really I
Hem
These women at least shall continue to respect the prerogative. Hallo! hallo there! What do you mean by this noise, you hussies
My dear
I didn't know you were here
Didn't know I was here
What do _you_ do here
I thought they were talking rather too much to be doing their work properly, my dear
_You_ thought they were talking too much
What business is it of yours
Why, my dear
What business is it of yours
It's very true, you're matron here, my dear
but I thought you mightn't be in the way just then
I'll tell you what, Mr. Bumble
We don't want any of your interference. You're a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that don't concern you, making everybody in the house laugh, the moment your back is turned, and making yourself look like a fool every hour in the day. Be off; come
All in two months
Two months! No more than two months ago, I was not only my own master, but everybody else's, so far as the porochial workhouse was concerned, and now
Were you looking for me
when you peered in at the window
Not that I am aware of, unless you're Mr
I see you were not
or you have known my name. You don't know it. I would recommend you not to ask for it
I meant no harm, young man
And have done none
I have seen you before, I think
You were differently dressed at that time, and I only passed you in the street, but I should know you again. You were beadle here, once; were you not
I was
porochial beadle
Just so
It was in that character I saw you. What are you now
Master of the workhouse
Master of the workhouse, young man
You have the same eye to your own interest, that you always had, I doubt not
Don't scruple to answer freely, man. I know you pretty well, you see
I suppose, a married man
is not more averse to turning an honest penny when he can, than a single one. Porochial officers are not so well paid that they can afford to refuse any little extra fee, when it comes to them in a civil and proper manner
Fill this glass again
Let it be strong and hot. You like it so, I suppose
Not too strong
You understand what that means, landlord
Now listen to me
I came down to this place, to-day, to find you out; and, by one of those chances which the devil throws in the way of his friends sometimes, you walked into the very room I was sitting in, while you were uppermost in my mind. I want some information from you. I don't ask you to give it for nothing, slight as it is. Put up that, to begin with
Carry your memory back -- let me see -- twelve years, last winter
It's a long time
Very good. I've done it
The scene, the workhouse
Good
And the time, night
Yes
And the place, the crazy hole, wherever it was, in which miserable drabs brought forth the life and health so often denied to themselves -- gave birth to puling children for the parish to rear; and hid their shame, rot 'em in the grave
The lying-in room, I suppose
Yes
A boy was born there
A many boys
A murrain on the young devils
Why, you mean Oliver! Young Twist
I remember him, of course. There wasn't a obstinater young rascal
It's not of him I want to hear; I've heard enough of him
It's of a woman; the hag that nursed his mother. Where is she
Where is she
It would be hard to tell. There's no midwifery there, whichever place she's gone to; so I suppose she's out of employment, anyway
What do you mean
That she died last winter
How can I find her
Only through me
When
To-morrow
At nine in the evening
at nine in the evening, bring her to me there. I needn't tell you to be secret. It's your interest
What do you want
Following me
Only to ask a question
What name am I to ask for
Monks
The place should be somewhere here
Halloa there
Stand still, a minute
I'll be with you directly
Is that the man
Then, mind what I told you
and be careful to say as little as you can, or you'll betray us at once
Come in
Don't keep me here
What the devil made you stand lingering there, in the wet
We -- we were only cooling ourselves
Cooling yourselves
Not all the rain that ever fell, or ever will fall, will put as much of hell's fire out, as a man can carry about with him. You won't cool yourself so easily; don't think it
This is the woman, is it
Hem! That is the woman
You think women never can keep secrets, I suppose
I know they will always keep _one_ till it's found out
And what may that be
The loss of their own good name
So, by the same rule, if a woman's a party to a secret that might hang or transport her, I'm not afraid of her telling it to anybody; not I! Do you understand, mistress
No
Of course you don't
How should you
Hear it
Hear it! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it. I hate the sound
These fits come over me, now and then
and thunder sometimes brings them on. Don't mind me now; it's all over for this once
Now
the sooner we come to our business, the better for all. The woman know what it is, does she
He is right in saying that you were with this hag the night she died; and that she told you something
About the mother of the boy you named
Yes
The first question is, of what nature was her communication
That's the second
The first is, what may the communication be worth
Who the devil can tell that, without knowing of what kind it is
Nobody better than you, I am persuaded
Humph
there may be money's worth to get, eh
Perhaps there may
Something that was taken from her
Something that she wore. Something that
You had better bid
I have heard enough, already, to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to
What's it worth to you
It may be nothing; it may be twenty pounds
Speak out, and let me know which
Add five pounds to the sum you have named; give me five-and-twenty pounds in gold
and I'll tell you all I know. Not before
Five-and-twenty pounds
I spoke as plainly as I could
It's not a large sum, either
Not a large sum for a paltry secret, that may be nothing when it's told
and which has been lying dead for twelve years past or more
Such matters keep well, and, like good wine, often double their value in course of time
As to lying dead, there are those who will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come, or twelve million, for anything you or I know, who will tell strange tales at last
What if I pay it for nothing
You can easily take it away again
I am but a woman; alone here; and unprotected
Not alone, my dear, nor unprotected, neither
_I_ am here, my dear. And besides
Mr. Monks is too much of a gentleman to attempt any violence on porochial persons. Mr. Monks is aware that I am not a young man, my dear, and also that I am a little run to seed, as I may say; bu he has heerd: I say I have no doubt Mr. Monks has heerd, my dear: that I am a very determined officer, with very uncommon strength, if I'm once roused. I only want a little rousing; that's all
You are a fool
and had better hold your tongue
He had better have cut it out, before he came, if he can't speak in a lower tone
So! He's your husband, eh
He my husband
I thought as much, when you came in
So much the better; I have less hesitation in dealing with two people, when I find that there's only one will between them. I'm in earnest. See here
Now
gather them up; and when this cursed peal of thunder, which I feel is coming up to break over the house-top, is gone, let's hear your story
When this woman, that we called old Sally, died
she and I were alone
Was there no one by
No sick wretch or idiot in some other bed? No one who could hear, and might, by possibility, understand
Not a soul
we were alone. _I_ stood alone beside the body when death came over it
Good
Go on
She spoke of a young creature
who had brought a child into the world some years before; not merely in the same room, but in the same bed, in which she then lay dying
Ay
Blood! How things come about
The child was the one you named to him last night
the mother this nurse had robbed
In life
In death
She stole from the corpse, when it had hardly turned to one, that which the dead mother had prayed her, with her last breath, to keep for the infant's sake
She sold it
did she sell it? Where? When? To whom? How long before
As she told me, with great difficulty, that she had done this
she fell back and died
Without saying more
It's a lie! I'll not be played with. She said more. I'll tear the life out of you both, but I'll know what it was
She didn't utter another word
but she clutched my gown, violently, with one hand, which was partly closed; and when I saw that she was dead, and so removed the hand by force, I found it clasped a scrap of dirty paper
Which contained
Nothing
it was a pawnbroker's duplicate
For what
In good time I'll tell you
I judge that she had kept the trinket, for some time, in the hope of turning it to better account; and then had pawned it; and had saved or scraped together money to pay the pawnbroker's interest year by year, and prevent its running out; so that if anything came of it, it could still be redeemed. Nothing had come of it; and, as I tell you, she died with the scrap of paper, all worn and tattered, in her hand. The time was out in two days; I thought something might one day come of it too; and so redeemed the pledge
Where is it now
_There_
It has the word "Agnes" engraved on the inside
There is a blank left for the surname; and then follows the date; which is within a year before the child was born. I found out that
And this is all
All
I know nothing of the story, beyond what I can guess at
and I want to know nothing; for it's safer not. But I may ask you two questions, may I
You may ask
but whether I answer or not is another question
Which makes three
Is that what you expected to get from me
It is
The other question
What do you propose to do with it? Can it be used against me
Never
nor against me either. See here! But don't move a step forward, or your life is not worth a bulrush
Look down
Don't fear me. I could have let you down, quietly enough, when you were seated over it, if that had been my game
If you flung a man's body down there, where would it be to-morrow morning
Twelve miles down the river, and cut to pieces besides
There
If the sea ever gives up its dead, as books say it will, it will keep its gold and silver to itself, and that trash among it. We have nothing more to say, and may break up our pleasant party
By all means
You'll keep a quiet tongue in your head, will you
I am not afraid of your wife
You may depend upon me, young man
On everybody's account, young man; on my own, you know, Mr. Monks
I am glad, for your sake, to hear it
Light your lantern! And get away from here as fast as you can
Not long gone seven
How do you feel to-night, Bill
As weak as water
Here; lend us a hand, and let me get off this thundering bed anyhow
Whining are you
Come! Don't stand snivelling there. If you can't do anything better than that, cut off altogether. D'ye hear me
I hear you
What fancy have you got in your head now
Oh! you've thought better of it, have you
All the better for you, you have
Why, you don't mean to say, you'd be hard upon me to-night, Bill
No
Why not
Such a number of nights
such a number of nights as I've been patient with you, nursing and caring for you, as if you had been a child: and this the first that I've seen you like yourself; you wouldn't have served me as you did just now, if you'd thought of that, would you? Come, come; say you wouldn't
Well, then
I wouldn't. Why, damme, now, the girls's whining again
It's nothing
Don't you seem to mind me. It'll soon be over
What'll be over
What foolery are you up to, now, again? Get up and bustle about, and don't come over me with your woman's nonsense
What's the matter here, my dear
Lend a hand to the girl, can't you
Don't stand chattering and grinning at me
Give her a whiff of fresh air with the bellows, Charley
and you slap her hands, Fagin, while Bill undoes the petticuts
Why, what evil wind has blowed you here
No evil wind at all, my dear, for evil winds blow nobody any good; and I've brought something good with me, that you'll be glad to see. Dodger, my dear, open the bundle; and give Bill the little trifles that we spent all our money on, this morning
Sitch a rabbit pie, Bill
sitch delicate creeturs, with sitch tender limbs, Bill, that the wery bones melt in your mouth, and there's no occasion to pick 'em; half a pound of seven and six-penny green, so precious strong that if you mix it with biling water, it'll go nigh to blow the lid of the tea-pot off; a pound and a half of moist sugar that the niggers didn't work at all at, afore they got it up to sitch a pitch of goodness,-- oh no! Two half-quartern brans; pound of best fresh; piece of doubleGlo's ter; and, to wind up all, some of the richest sort you ever lushed
Ah
You'll do, Bill; you'll do now
Do
I might have been done for, twenty times over, afore you'd have done anything to help me. What do you mean by leaving a man in this state, three weeks and more, you false-hearted wagabond
Only hear him, boys
And us come to bring him all these beau-ti-ful things
The things is well enough in their way
but what have you got to say for yourself, why you should leave me here, down in the mouth, health, blunt, and everything else; and take no more notice of me, all this mortal time, than if I was that 'ere dog.-- Drive him down, Charley
I never see such a jolly dog as that
Smelling the grub like a old lady a going to market! He'd make his fortun' on the stage that dog would, and rewive the drayma besides
Hold your din
What have you got to say for yourself, you withered old fence, eh
I was away from London, a week and more, my dear, on a plant
And what about the other fortnight
What about the other fortnight that you've left me lying here, like a sick rat in his hole
I couldn't help it, Bill. I can't go into a long explanation before company; but I couldn't help it, upon my honour
Upon your what
Here! Cut me off a piece of that pie, one of you boys, to take the taste of that out of my mouth, or it'll choke me dead
Don't be out of temper, my dear
I have never forgot you, Bill; never once
No! I'll pound it that you han't
You've been scheming and plotting away, every hour that I have laid shivering and burning here; and Bill was to do this; and Bill was to do that; and Bill was to do it all, dirt cheap, as soon as he got well: and was quite poor enough for your work. If it hadn't been for the girl, I might have died
There now, Bill
If it hadn't been for the girl! Who but poor ould Fagin was the means of your having such a handy girl about you
He says true enough there
Let him be; let him be
It's all very well
but I must have some blunt from you to-night
I haven't a piece of coin about me
Then you've got lots at home
and I must have some from there
Lots
I haven't so much as would
I don't know how much you've got, and I dare say you hardly know yourself, as it would take a pretty long time to count it
but I must have some to-night; and that's flat
Well, well
I'll send the Artful round presently
You won't do nothing of the kind
The Artful's a deal too artful, and would forget to come, or lose his way, or get dodged by traps and so be perwented, or anything for an excuse, if you put him up to it. Nancy shall go to the ken and fetch it, to make all sure; and I'll lie down and have a snooze while she's gone
Has nobody been, Toby
Not a living leg
it's been as dull as swipes. You ought to stand something handsome, Fagin, to recompense me for keeping house so long. Damme, I'm as flat as a juryman; and should have gone to sleep, as fast as Newgate, if I hadn't had the good natur' to amuse this youngster. Horrid dull, I'm blessed if I an't
Wot a rum chap you are, Tom
Not a bit of it
Am I, Fagin
A very clever fellow, my dear
And Mr. Crackit is a heavy swell; an't he, Fagin
No doubt at all of that, my dear
And it is a creditable thing to have his acquaintance; an't it, Fagin
Very much so, indeed, my dear. They're only jealous, Tom, because he won't give it to them
Ah
that's where it is! He has cleaned me out. But I can go and earn some more, when I like; can't I, Fagin
To be sure you can, and the sooner you go the better, Tom; so make up your loss at once, and don't lose any more time. Dodger! Charley! It's time you were on the lay. Come! It's near ten, and nothing done yet
Now
I'll go and get you that cash, Nancy. This is only the key of a little cupboard where I keep a few odd things the boys get, my dear. I never lock up my money, for I've got none to lock up, my dear -- ha! ha! ha!-- none to lock up. It's a poor trade, Nancy, and no thanks; but I'm fond of seeing the young people about me; and I bear it all, I bear it all. Hush
who's that? Listen
Bah
it's the man I expected before; he's coming downstairs. Not a word about the money while he's here, Nance. He won't stop long. Not ten minutes, my dear
Only one of my young people
Don't move, Nancy
Any news
Great
And -- and -- good
Not bad, any way
I have been prompt enough this time. Let me have a word with you
Not that infernal hole we were in before
Why, Nance
how pale you are
Pale
Quite horrible. What have you been doing to yourself
Nothing that I know of, except sitting in this close place for I don't know how long and all
Come! Let me get back; that's a dear
good-night
Why, burn my body
You look like a corpse come to life again. What's the matter
Matter
Nothing. What do you look at me so hard for
What foolery is this
What is it? What do you mean? What are you thinking of
Of many things, Bill
But, Lord! What odds in that
I tell you wot it is
if you haven't caught the fever, and got it comin' on, now, there's something more than usual in the wind, and something dangerous too. You're not a-going to --. No, damme! you wouldn't do that
Do what
There ain't
there ain't a stauncher-hearted gal going, or I'd have cut her throat three months ago. She's got the fever coming on; that's it
Now
come and sit aside of me, and put on your own face; or I'll alter it so, that you won't know it agin when you do want it
The laudanum has taken effect at last
I may be too late, even now
Has it long gone the half-hour
It'll strike the hour in another quarter
And I cannot get there in less than an hour or more
The woman is mad
Now, young woman
who do you want here
A lady who is stopping in this house
A lady
What lady
Miss Maylie
What name am I to say
It's of no use saying any
Nor business
No, nor that neither
I must see the lady
Come
None of this. Take yourself off
I shall be carried out if I go
and I can make that a job that two of you won't like to do. Isn't there anybody here
that will see a simple message carried for a poor wretch like me
Take it up for her, Joe; can't you
What's the good
You don't suppose the young lady will see such as her; do you
Do what you like with me
but do what I ask you first, and I ask you to give this message for God Almighty's sake
What's it to be
That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to Miss Maylie alone
and that if the lady will only hear the first word she has to say, she will know whether to hear her business, or to have her turned out of doors as an impostor
I say
you're coming it strong
You give the message
and let me hear the answer
It's no good being proper in this world
Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire
Shameful
It's a hard matter to get to see you, lady. If I had taken offence, and gone away, as many would have done, you'd have been sorry for it one day, and not without reason either
I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you
Do not think of that. Tell me why you wished to see me. I am the person you inquired for
Oh, lady, lady
if there was more like you, there would be fewer like me,-- there would -- there would
Sit down
If you are in poverty or affliction I shall be truly glad to relieve you if I can,-- I shall indeed. Sit down
Let me stand, lady
and do not speak to me so kindly till you know me better. It is growing late. Is -- is -- that door shut
Yes
Why
Because
I am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands. I am the girl that dragged little Oliver back to old Fagin's on the night he went out from the house in Pentonville
You
I, lady
I am the infamous creature you have heard of, that lives among the thieves, and that never from the first moment I can recollect my eyes and senses opening on London streets have known any better life, or kinder words than they have given me, so help me God! Do not mind shrinking openly from me, lady. I am younger than you would think, to look at me, but I am well used to it. The poorest women fall back, as I make my way along the crowded pavement
What dreadful things are these
Thank Heaven upon your knees, dear lady
that you had friends to care for and keep you in your childhood, and that you were never in the midst of cold and hunger, and riot and drunkenness, and -- and -- something worse than all -- as I have been from my cradle. I may use the word, for the alley and the gutter were mine, as they will be my deathbed
I pity you
It wrings my heart to hear you
Heaven bless you for your goodness
If you knew what I am sometimes, you would pity me, indeed. But I have stolen away from those who would surely murder me, if they knew I had been here, to tell you what I have overheard. Do you know a man named Monks
No
He knows you
and knew you were here, for it was by hearing him tell the place that I found you out
I never heard the name
Then he goes by some other amongst us
which I more than thought before. Some time ago, and soon after Oliver was put into your house on the night of the robbery, I -- suspecting this man -- listened to a conversation held between him and Fagin in the dark. I found out, from what I heard, that Monks -- the man I asked you about, you know
Yes
I understand
That Monks
had seen him accidently with two of our boys on the day we first lost him, and had known him directly to be the same child that he was watching for, though I couldn't make out why. A bargain was struck with Fagin, that if Oliver was got back he should have a certain sum; and he was to have more for making him a thief, which this Monks wanted for some purpose of his own
For what purpose
He caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened, in the hope of finding out
and there are not many people besides me that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery. But I did; and I saw him no more till last night
And what occurred then
I'll tell you, lady. Last night he came again. Again they went upstairs, and I, wrapping myself up so that my shadow would not betray me, again listened at the door. The first words I heard Monks say were these: "So the only proofs of the boy's identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received them from the mother is rotting in her coffin." They laughed, and talked of his success in doing this; and Monks, talking on about the boy, and getting very wild, said that though he had got the young devil's money safely now, he'd rather have had it the other way; for, what a game it would have been to have brought down the boast of the father's will, by driving him through every jail in town, and then hauling him up for some capital felony which Fagin could easily manage, after having made a good profit of him besides
What is all this
The truth, lady, though it comes from my lips
Then, he said, with oaths common enough in my ears, but strange to yours, that if he could gratify his hatred by taking the boy's life without bringing his own neck in danger, he would; but, as he couldn't, he'd be upon the watch to meet him at every turn in life; and if he took advantage of his birth and history, he might harm him yet. "In short, Fagin," he says, "Jew as you are, you never laid such snares as I'll contrive for my young brother, Oliver
His brother
Those were his words
And more. When he spoke of you and the other lady, and said it seemed contrived by Heaven, or the devil, against him, that Oliver should come into your hands, he laughed, and said there was some comfort in that too, for how many thousands and hundreds of thousands of pounds would you not give, if you had them, to know who your two-legged spaniel was
You do not mean
to tell me that this was said in earnest
He spoke in hard and angry earnest, if a man ever did
He is an earnest man when his hatred is up. I know many who do worse things; but I'd rather listen to them all a dozen times, than to that Monks once. It is growing late, and I have to reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this. I must get back quickly
But what can I do
To what use can I turn this communication without you? Back! Why do you wish to return to companions you paint in such terrible colors? If you repeat this information to a gentleman whom I can summon in an instant from the next room, you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an hour's delay
I wish to go back
I must go back, because -- how can I tell such things to an innocent lady like you?-- because among the men I have told you of, there is one: the most desperate among them all; that I can't leave: no, not even to be saved from the life I am leading now
Your having interfered in this dear boy's behalf before
your coming here, at so great a risk, to tell me what you have heard; your manner, which convinces me of the truth of what you say; your evident contrition, and sense of shame; all lead me to believe that you might yet be reclaimed. Oh
do not turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of one of your own sex; the first -- the first, I do believe, who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion. Do hear my words, and let me save you yet, for better things
Lady
dear, sweet, angel lady, you _are_ the first that ever blessed me with such words as these, and if I had heard them years ago, they might have turned me from a life of sin and sorrow; but it is too late, it is too late
It is never too late
for penitence and atonement
It is
I cannot leave him now! I could not be his death
Why should you be
Nothing could save him
If I told others what I have told you, and led to their being taken, he would be sure to die. He is the boldest, and has been so cruel
Is it possible
that for such a man as this, you can resign every future hope, and the certainty of immediate rescue? It is madness
I don't know what it is
I only know that it is so, and not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bad and wretched as myself. I must go back. Whether it is God's wrath for the wrong I have done, I do not know; but I am drawn back to him through every suffering and ill usage; and I should be, I believe, if I knew that I was to die by his hand at last
What am I to do
I should not let you depart from me thus
You should, lady, and I know you will
You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness, and forced no promise from you, as I might have done
Of what use, then, is the communication you have made
This mystery must be investigated, or how will its disclosure to me, benefit Oliver, whom you are anxious to serve
You must have some kind gentleman about you that will hear it as a secret, and advise you what to do
But where can I find you again when it is necessary
I do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time
Will you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept, and come alone, or with the only other person that knows it; and that I shall not be watched or followed
I promise you solemnly
Every Sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve
I will walk on London Bridge if I am alive
Stay another moment
Think once again on your own condition, and the opportunity you have of escaping from it. You have a claim on me: not only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence, but as a woman lost almost beyond redemption. Will you return to this gang of robbers, and to this man, when a word can save you? What fascination is it that can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery? Oh! is there no chord in your heart that I can touch! Is there nothing left, to which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation
When ladies as young, and good, and beautiful as you are
give away your hearts, love will carry you all lengths -- even such as you, who have home, friends, other admirers, everything, to fill them. When such as I, who have no certain roof but the coffinlid, and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital nurse, set our rotten hearts on any man, and let him fill the place that has been a blank through all our wretched lives, who can hope to cure us? Pity us, lady -- pity us for having only one feeling of the woman left, and for having that turned, by a heavy judgment, from a comfort and a pride, into a new means of violence and suffering
You will
take some money from me, which may enable you to live without dishonesty -- at all events until we meet again
Not a penny
Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you
I wish to serve you indeed
You would serve me best, lady
if you could take my life at once; for I have felt more grief to think of what I am, to-night, than I ever did before, and it would be something not to die in the hell in which I have lived. God bless you, sweet lady, and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame on mine
If it be painful to him
to come back here, how painful it will be to me! But perhaps he will not come; he may write, or he may come himself, and studiously abstain from meeting me -- he did when he went away. I hardly thought he would; but it was better for us both
What makes you look so flurried
I hardly know how; I feel as if I should be choked
Oh dear! To think that I should see him at last, and you should be able to know that I have told you the truth
I never thought you had told us anything but the truth
But what is this?-- of whom do you speak
I have seen the gentleman
the gentleman who was so good to me -- Mr. Brownlow, that we have so often talked about
Where
Getting out of a coach
and going into a house. I didn't speak to him -- I couldn't speak to him, for he didn't see me, and I trembled so, that I was not able to go up to him. But Giles asked, for me, whether he lived there, and they said he did. Look here
here it is; here's where he lives -- I'm going there directly! Oh, dear me, dear me! What shall I do when I come to see him and hear him speak again
Quick
Tell them to fetch a hackney-coach, and be ready to go with me. I will take you there directly, without a minute's loss of time. I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour, and be ready as soon as you are
Dear me
I beg your pardon, young lady -- I imagined it was some importunate person who -- I beg you will excuse me. Be seated, pray
Mr. Brownlow, I believe, sir
That is my name
This is my friend, Mr. Grimwig. Grimwig, will you leave us for a few minutes
I believe
that at this period of our interview, I need not give that gentleman the trouble of going away. If I am correctly informed, he is cognizant of the business on which I wish to speak to you
I shall surprise you very much, I have no doubt
but you once showed great benevolence and goodness to a very dear young friend of mine, and I am sure you will take an interest in hearing of him again
Indeed
Oliver Twist you knew him as
Do me the favour, my dear young lady, to leave entirely out of the question that goodness and benevolence of which you speak, and of which nobody else knows anything; and if you have it in your power to produce any evidence which will alter the unfavourable opinion I was once induced to entertain of that poor child, in Heaven's name put me in possession of it
A bad one! I'll eat my head if he is not a bad one
He is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart
and that Power which has thought fit to try him beyond his years, has planted in his breast affections and feelings which would do honour to many who have numbered his days six times over
I'm only sixty-one
And, as the devil's in it if this Oliver is not twelve years old at least, I don't see the application of that remark
Do not heed my friend, Miss Maylie
he does not mean what he says
Yes, he does
No, he does not
He'll eat his head, if he doesn't
He would deserve to have it knocked off, if he does
And he'd uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it
Now, Miss Maylie
to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested. Will you let me know what intelligence you have of this poor child: allowing me to promise that I exhausted every means in my power of discovering him, and that since I have been absent from this country, my first impression that he had imposed upon me, and had been persuaded by his former associates to rob me, has been considerably shaken
Thank God
This is great happiness to me, great happiness. But you have not told me where he is now, Miss Maylie. You must pardon my finding fault with you,-- but why not have brought him
He is waiting in a coach at the door
At this door
Hush
Don't be afraid. I'm old enough to be your grandfather. You're a sweet girl. I like you. Here they are
There is somebody else who should not be forgotten, by the bye
Send Mrs. Bedwin here, if you please
Why, you get blinder every day, Bedwin
Well, that I do, sir
People's eyes, at my time of life, don't improve with age, sir
I could have told you that
but put on your glasses, and see if you can't find out what you were wanted for, will you
God be good to me
it is my innocent boy
My dear old nurse
He would come back -- I knew he would
How well he looks, and how like a gentleman's son he is dressed again! Where have you been, this long, long while? Ah! the same sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad. I have never forgotten them or his quiet smile, but have seen them every day, side by side with those of my own dear children, dead and gone since I was a lightsome young creature
Then what the devil is to be done
Are we to pass a vote of thanks to all these vagabonds, male and female, and beg them to accept a hundred pounds, or so, apiece, as a trifling mark of our esteem, and some slight acknowledgment of their kindness to Oliver
Not exactly that
but we must proceed gently and with great care
Gentleness and care
I'd send them one and all to
Never mind where
But reflect whether sending them anywhere is likely to attain the object we have in view
What object
Simply, the discovery of Oliver's parentage, and regaining for him the inheritance of which, if this story be true, he has been fraudulently deprived
Ah
I almost forgot that
You see
placing this poor girl entirely out of the question, and supposing it were possible to bring these scoundrels to justice without compromising her safety, what good should we bring about
Hanging a few of them at least, in all probability
and transporting the rest
Very good
but no doubt they will bring that about for themselves in the fulness of time, and if we step in to forestall them, it seems to me that we shall be performing a very Quixotic act, in direct opposition to our own interest -- or at least to Oliver's, which is the same thing
How
Thus. It is quite clear that we shall have extreme difficulty in getting to the bottom of this mystery, unless we can bring this man, Monks, upon his knees. That can only be done by stratagem, and by catching him when he is not surrounded by these people. For, suppose he were apprehended, we have no proof against him. He is not even (so far as we know, or as the facts appear to us) concerned with the gang in any of their robberies. If he were not discharged, it is very unlikely that he could receive any further punishment than being committed to prison as a rogue and vagabond; and of course ever afterwards his mouth would be so obstinately closed that he might as well, for our purposes, be deaf, dumb, blind, and an idiot
Then
I put it to you again, whether you think it reasonable that this promise to the girl should be considered binding; a promise made with the best and kindest intentions, but really
Do not discuss the point, my dear young lady, pray
The promise shall be kept. I don't think it will, in the slightest degree, interfere with our proceedings. But, before we can resolve upon any precise course of action, it will be necessary to see the girl; to ascertain from her whether she will point out this Monks, on the understanding that he is to be dealt with by us, and not by the law; or, if she will not, or cannot do that, to procure from her such an account of his haunts and description of his person, as will enable us to identify him. She cannot be seen until next Sunday night; this is Tuesday. I would suggest that in the meantime, we remain perfectly quiet, and keep these matters secret even from Oliver himself
I should like
to call in the aid of my friend Grimwig. He is a strange creature, but a shrewd one, and might prove of material assistance to us; I should say that he was bred a lawyer, and quitted the Bar in disgust because he had only one brief and a motion of course, in twenty years, though whether that is recommendation or not, you must determine for yourselves
I have no objection to your calling in your friend if I may call in mine
We must put it to the vote
who may he be
That lady's son, and this young lady's -- very old friend
We stay in town, of course
while there remains the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of success. I will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the object in which we are all so deeply interested, and I am content to remain here, if it be for twelve months, so long as you assure me that any hope remains
Good
And as I see on the faces about me, a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way to corroborate Oliver's tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom, let me stipulate that I shall be asked no questions until such time as I may deem it expedient to forestall them by telling my own story. Believe me, I make this request with good reason, for I might otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realised, and only increase difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough. Come! Supper has been announced, and young Oliver, who is all alone in the next room, will have begun to think, by this time, that we have wearied of his company, and entered into some dark conspiracy to thrust him forth upon the world
Come on, can't yer? What a lazybones yer are, Charlotte
It's a heavy load, I can tell you
Heavy! What are yer talking about? What are yer made for
Oh, there yer are, resting again! Well, if yer ain't enough to tire anybody's patience out, I don't know what is
Is it much farther
Much farther! Yer as good as there
Look there! Those are the lights of London
They're a good two mile off, at least
Never mind whether they're two mile off, or twenty
but get up and come on, or I'll kick yer, and so I give yer notice
Where do you mean to stop for the night, Noah
How should I know
Near, I hope
No, not near
There! Not near; so don't think it
Why not
When I tell yer that I don't mean to do a thing, that's enough, without any why or because either
Well, you needn't be so cross
A pretty thing it would be, wouldn't it to go and stop at the very first public-house outside the town, so that Sowerberry, if he come up after us, might poke in his old nose, and have us taken back in a cart with handcuffs on
Cod, yer may thanks yer stars I've got a head; for if we hadn't gone, at first, the wrong road a purpose, and come back across country, yer'd have been locked up hard and fast a week ago, my lady. And serve yer right for being a fool
I know I ain't as cunning as you are
but don't put all the blame on me, and say I should have been locked up. You would have been if I had been, any way
Yer took the money from the till, yer know yer did
I took it for you, Noah, dear
Did I keep it
No; you trusted in me, and let me carry it like a dear, and so you are
So give us the bundle
and don't yer speak, except when yer spoke to. What's the name of the house -- t-h-r -- three what
Cripples
Three Cripples
and a very good sign too. Now, then! Keep close at my heels, and come along
Is this the Three Cripples
That is the dabe of this 'ouse
A gentleman we met on the road, coming up from the country, recommended us here
We want to sleep here to-night
but I'll idquire
Show us the tap, and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring, will yer
Hush
stradegers id the next roob
Strangers
Ah! Ad rub uds too
Aha
I like that fellow's looks. He'd be of use to us; he knows how to train the girl already. Don't make as much noise as a mouse, my dear, and let me hear 'em talk -- let me hear 'em
So I mean to be a gentleman
No more jolly old coffins, Charlotte, but a gentleman's life for me: and, if yer like, yer shall be a lady
I should like that well enough, dear
but tills ain't to be emptied every day, and people to get clear off after it
Tills be blowed
there's more things besides tills to be emptied
What do you mean
Pockets, women's ridicules, houses, mail-coaches, banks
But you can't do all that, dear
I shall look out to get into company with them as can
They'll be able to make us useful some way or another. Why, you yourself are worth fifty women; I never see such a precious sly and deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer
Lor, how nice it is to hear yer say so
There, that'll do: don't yer be too affectionate, in case I'm cross with yer
I should like to be the captain of some band, and have the whopping of 'em, and follering 'em about, unbeknown to themselves. That would suit me, if there was good profit; and if we could only get in with some gentleman of this sort, I say it would be cheap at that twenty-pound note you've got,-- especially as we don't very well know how to get rid of it ourselves
A pleasant night, sir, but cool for the time of year
From the country, I see, sir
How do yer see that
We have not so much dust as that in London
Yer a sharp feller
Ha! ha! only hear that, Charlotte
Why, one need be sharp in this town, my dear
and that's the truth
Good stuff that
Dear
A man need be always emptying a till, or a pocket, or a woman's reticule, or a house, or a mail-coach, or a bank, if he drinks it regularly
Don't mind me, my dear
Ha! ha! it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance. It was very lucky it was only me
I didn't take it
it was all her doing; yer've got it now, Charlotte, yer know yer have
No matter who's got it, or who did it, my dear
I'm in that way myself, and I like you for it
In what way
In that way of business
and so are the people of the house. You've hit the right nail upon the head, and are as safe here as you could be. There is not a safer place in all this town than is the Cripples; that is, when I like to make it so. And I have taken a fancy to you and the young woman; so I've said the word, and you may make your minds easy
I'll tell you more
I have got a friend that I think can gratify your darling wish, and put you in the right way, where you can take whatever department of the business you think will suit you best at first, and be taught all the others
Yer speak as if yer were in earnest
What advantage would it be to me to be anything else
Here! Let me have a word with you outside
There's no occasion to trouble ourselves to move
She'll take the luggage upstairs the while. Charlotte, see to them bundles
She's kept tolerably well under, ain't she
Quite perfect
You're a genius, my dear
Why, I suppose if I wasn't, I shouldn't be here
But, I say, she'll be back if yer lose time
Now, what do you think
If you was to like my friend, could you do better than join him
Is he in a good way of business; that's where it is
The top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession
Regular town-maders
Not a countryman among 'em; and I don't think he'd take you, even on my recommendation, if he didn't run rather short of assistants just now
Should I have to hand over
It couldn't possibly be done without
Twenty pound, though -- it's a lot of money
Not when it's in a note you can't get rid of
Number and date taken, I suppose? Payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It's not worth much to him. It'll have to go abroad, and he couldn't sell it for a great deal in the market
When could I see him
To-morrow morning
Where
Here
Um
What's the wages
Live like a gentleman -- board and lodging, pipes and spirits free -- half of all you earn, and half of all the young woman earns
But, yer see
as she will be able to do a good deal, I should like to take something very light
A little fancy work
Ah! something of that sort
What do you think would suit me now? Something not too trying for the strength, and not very dangerous, you know. That's the sort of thing
I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others, my dear
My friend wants somebody who would do that well, very much
Why, I did mention that, and I shouldn't mind turning my hand to it sometimes
but it wouldn't pay by itself, you know
That's true
No, it might not
What do you think, then
Something in the sneaking way, where it was pretty sure work, and not much more risk than being at home
What do you think of the old ladies
There's a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels, and running round the corner
Don't they holler out a good deal, and scratch sometimes
I don't think that would answer my purpose. Ain't there any other line open
Stop
The kinchin lay
What's that
The kinchins, my dear
is the young children that's sent on errands by their mothers, with sixpences and shillings; and the lay is just to take their money away -- they've always got it ready in their hands,-- then knock 'em into the kennel, and walk off very slow, as if there were nothing else the matter but a child fallen down and hurt itself. Ha! ha! ha
Ha! ha
Lord, that's the very thing
To be sure it is
and you can have a few good beats chalked out in Camden Town, and Battle Bridge, and neighborhoods like that, where they're always going errands; and you can upset as many kinchins as you want, any hour in the day. Ha! ha! ha
Well, that's all right
What time to-morrow shall we say
Will ten do
What name shall I tell my good friend
Mr. Bolter
Mr. Morris Bolter. This is Mrs. Bolter
Mrs. Bolter's humble servant
I hope I shall know her better very shortly
Do you hear the gentleman, Charlotte
Yes, Noah, dear
She calls me Noah, as a sort of fond way of talking
You understand
Oh yes, I understand -- perfectly
Good-night! Good-night
And so it was you that was your own friend, was it
Every man's his own friend, my dear
He hasn't as good a one as himself anywhere
Except sometimes
Some people are nobody's enemies but their own, yer know
Don't believe that
When a man's his own enemy, it's only because he's too much his own friend; not because he's careful for everybody but himself. Pooh! pooh! There ain't such a thing in nature
There oughn't to be, if there is
Ha! ha
Number one for ever
In a little community like ours, my dear
we have a general number one, without considering me too as the same, and all the other young people
Oh, the devil
You see
we are so mixed up together, and identified in our interests, that it must be so. For instance, it's your object to take care of number one -- meaning yourself
Certainly
Yer about right there
Well! You can't take care of yourself, number one, without taking care of me, number one
Number two, you mean
No, I don't
I'm of the same importance to you, as you are to yourself
I say
yer a very nice man, and I'm very fond of yer; but we ain't quite so thick together, as all that comes to
Only think
only consider. You've done what's a very pretty thing, and what I love you for doing; but what at the same time would put the cravat round your throat, that's so very easily tied and so very difficult to unloose -- in plain English, the halter
The gallows
the gallows, my dear, is an ugly finger-post, which points out a very short and sharp turning that has stopped many a bold fellow's career on the broad highway. To keep in the easy road, and keep it at a distance, is object number one with you
Of course it is
What do yer talk about such things for
Only to show you my meaning clearly
To be able to do that, you depend upon me. To keep my little business all snug, I depend upon you. The first is your number one, the second my number one. The more you value your number one, the more careful you must be of mine; so we come at last to what I told you at first -- that a regard for number one holds us all together, and must do so, unless we would all go to pieces in company
That's true
Oh! yer a cunning old codger
It's this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under heavy losses
My best hand was taken from me, yesterday morning
You don't mean to say he died
No, no
not so bad as that. Not quite so bad
What, I suppose he was
Wanted
Yes, he was wanted
Very particular
No
not very. He was charged with attempting to pick a pocket, and they found a silver snuff-box on him,-- his own, my dear, his own, for he took snuff himself, and was very fond of it. They remanded him till to-day, for they thought they knew the owner. Ah! he was worth fifty boxes, and I'd give the price of as many to have him back. You should have known the Dodger, my dear; you should have known the Dodger
Well, but I shall know him, I hope; don't yer think so
I'm doubtful about it
If they don't get any fresh evidence, it'll only be a summary conviction, and we shall have him back again after six weeks or so; but, if they do, it's a case of lagging. They know what a clever lad he is; he'll be a lifer. They'll make the Artful nothing less than a lifer
What do you mean by lagging and a lifer
What's the good of talking in that way to me; why don't yer speak so as I can understand yer
transportation for life
It's all up, Fagin
What do you mean
They've found the gentleman as owns the box; two or three more's a coming to 'dentify him; and the Artful's booked for a passage out
I must have a full suit of mourning, Fagin, and a hatband, to wisit him in, afore he sets out upon his travels. To think of Jack Dawkins -- lummy Jack -- the Dodger -- the Artful Dodger -- going abroad for a common twopenny-halfpenny sneeze-box! I never thought he'd a done it under a gold watch, chain, and seals, at the lowest. Oh, why didn't he rob some rich old gentleman of all his walables, and go out as a gentleman, and not like a common prig, without no honour nor glory
What do you talk about his having neither honour nor glory for
Wasn't he always the top-sawyer among you all! Is there one of you that could touch him or come near him on any scent! Eh
Not one
not one
Then what do you talk of
what are you blubbering for
cause nobody will never know half of what he was. How will he stand in the Newgate Calendar? P'raps not be there at all. Oh, my eye, my eye, wot a blow it is
Ha! ha
see what a pride they take in their profession, my dear. Ain't it beautiful
Never mind, Charley
it'll come out, it'll be sure to come out. They'll all know what a clever fellow he was; he'll show it himself, and not disgrace his old pals and teachers. Think how young he is too! What a distinction, Charley, to be lagged at his time of life
Well, it is a honour that is
He shall have all he wants
He shall be kept in the Stone Jug, Charley, like a gentleman. Like a gentleman! With his beer every day, and money in his pocket to pitch and toss with, if he can't spend it
No, shall he though
Ay, that he shall
and we'll have a big-wig, Charley: one that's got the greatest gift of the gab: to carry on his defence; and he shall make a speech for himself too, if he likes; and we'll read it all in the papers --"Artful Dodger -- shrieks of laughter -- here the court was convulsed"-- eh, Charley, eh
Ha! ha
what a lark that would be, wouldn't it, Fagin? I say, how the Artful would bother 'em wouldn't he
Would
He shall -- he will
Ah, to be sure, so he will
I think I see him now
So do I
Ha! ha! ha! so do I. I see it all afore me, upon my soul I do, Fagin. What a game! What a regular game! All the big-wigs trying to look solemn, and Jack Dawkins addressing of 'em as intimate and comfortable as if he was the judge's own son making a speech arter dinner -- ha! ha! ha
We must know how he gets on to-day, by some handy means or other
Let me think
Shall I go
Not for the world
Are you mad, my dear, stark mad, that you'd walk into the very place where -- No, Charley, no. One is enough to lose at a time
You don't mean to go yourself, I suppose
That wouldn't quite fit
Then why don't you send this new cove
Nobody knows him
Why, if he didn't mind
Mind
What should he have to mind
Really nothing, my dear
really nothing
Oh, I dare say about that, yer know
No, no -- none of that. It's not in my department, that ain't
Wot department has he got, Fagin
The cutting away when there's anything wrong, and the eating all the wittles when there's everything right; is that his branch
Never mind
and don't yer take liberties with yer superiors, little boy, or yer'll find yerself in the wrong shop
Take that baby out
Hold your tongue, will you
I'm an Englishman, ain't I
Where are my priwileges
You'll get your privileges soon enough
and pepper with 'em
We'll see wot the Secretary of State for the Home Affairs has got to say to the beaks, if I don't
Now then! Wot is this here business? I shall thank themadg's trates to dispose of this here little affair, and not to keep me while they read the paper, for I've got an appointment with a genelman in the City, and as I am a man of my word and wery punctual in business matters, he'll go away if I ain't there to my time, and then pr'aps ther won't be an action for damage against them as kep me away. Oh no, certainly not
the names of them two files as was on the bench
Silence there
What is this
A pick-pocketing case, your worship
Has the boy ever been here before
He ought to have been, a many times
He has been pretty well everywhere else. _I_ know him well, your worship
Oh! you know me, do you
Wery good. That's a case of deformation of character, any way
Now then, where are the witnesses
Ah! that's right
Where are they? I should like to see 'em
Have you anything to ask this witness, boy
I wouldn't abase myself by descending to hold no conversation with him
Have you anything to say at all
Do you hear his worship ask if you've anything to say
I beg your pardon
Did you redress yourself to me, my man
I never see such an out-and-out young wagabond, your worship
Do you mean to say anything, you young shaver
No
not here, for this ain't the shop for justice: besides which, my attorney is a-breakfasting this morning with the Wice President of the House of Commons; but I shall have something to say elsewhere, and so will he, and so will a wery numerous and 'spectable circle of acquaintance as'll make them beaks wish they'd never been born, or that they'd got their footmen to hang 'em up to their own hat-pegs, afore they let 'em come out this morning to try it on upon me. I'll
There! He's fully committed
Take him away
Come on
Oh ah! I'll come on
An hour this side of midnight
Dark and heavy it is too. A good night for business this
Ah
What a pity, Bill, my dear, that there's none quite ready to be done
You're right for once
It is a pity, for I'm in the humour too
We must make up for lost time when we've got things into a good train. That's all I know
That's the way to talk, my dear
It does me good to hear you
Does you good, does it
Well, so be it
Ha! ha! ha
You're like yourself to-night, Bill. Quite like yourself
I don't feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder, so take it away
It make you nervous, Bill,-- reminds you of being nabbed, does it
Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil
un without any father at all betwixt you; which I shouldn't wonder at, a bit
Hallo
Nance. Where's the gal going to at this time of night
Not far
What answer's that
Do you hear me
I don't know where
Then I do
Nowhere. Sit down
I'm not well. I told you that before
I want a breath of air
Put your head out of the winder
There's not enough there
I want it in the street
Then you won't have it
There
Now stop quietly where you are, will you
It's not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me
What do you mean, Bill? Do you know what you're doing
Know what I'm -- Oh
she's out of her senses, you know, or she daren't talk to me in that way
You'll drive me on the something desperate
Let me go, will you,-- this minute -- this instant
No
Tell him to let me go, Fagin. He had better. It'll be better for him. Do you hear me
Hear you
Aye! And if I hear you for half a minute longer, the dog shall have such a grip on your throat as'll tear some of that screaming voice out. Wot has come over you, you jade! Wot is it
Let me go
Bill, let me go; you don't know what you are doing. You don't, indeed. For only one hour -- do -- do
Cut my limbs off one by one
If I don't think the gal's stark raving mad. Get up
Not till you let me go -- not till you let me go -- Never -- never
Whew
Wot a precious strange gal that is
You may say that, Bill
You may say that
Wot did she take it into her head to go out to-night for, do you think
Come; you should know her better than me. Wot does it mean
Obstinacy; woman's obstinacy, I suppose, my dear
Well, I suppose it is
I thought I had tamed her, but she's as bad as ever
Worse
I never knew her like this, for such a little cause
Nor I
I think she's got a touch of that fever in her blood yet, and it won't come out -- eh
Like enough
I'll let her a little blood, without troubling the doctor, if she's took that way again
She was hanging about me all day, and night too, when I was stretched on my back; and you, like a blackhearted wolf as you are, kept yourself aloof
We was poor too, all the time, and I think, one way or other, it's worried and fretted her; and that being shut up here so long has made her restless -- eh
That's it, my dear
Hush
Why, now she's on the other tack
Light him down
It's a pity he should break his neck himself, and disappoint the sight-seers. Show him a light
What is it, Nancy, dear
What do you mean
The reason of all this
If _he_
is so hard with you (he's a brute, Nance, a brute-beast), why don't you
Well
No matter just now. We'll talk of this again. You have a friend in me, Nance; a staunch friend. I have the means at hand, quiet and close. If you want revenge on those that treat you like a dog -- like a dog! worse than his dog, for he humours him sometimes -- come to me. I say, come to me. He is the mere hound of a day, but you know me of old, Nance
I know you well
Good-night
With a little persuasion
what more likely than that she would consent to poison him? Women have done such things, and worse, to secure the same object before now. There would be the dangerous villain: the man I hate: gone; another secured in his place; and my influence over the girl, with a knowledge of this crime to back it, unlimited
How
can I increase my influence with her? What new power can I acquire
I can
She durst not refuse me then. Not for her life, not for her life! I have it all. The means are ready, and shall be set to work. I shall have you yet
Bolter
Well, here I am
What's the matter? Don't yer ask me to do anything till I have done eating. That's a great fault in this place. Yer never get time enough over yer meals
You can talk as you eat, can't you
Oh yes, I can talk. I get on better when I talk
Where's Charlotte
Out
I sent her out this morning with the other young woman, because I wanted us to be alone
Oh
I wish yer'd ordered her to make some buttered toast first. Well. Talk away. Yer won't interrupt me
You did well yesterday, my dear
Beautiful! Six shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day! The kinchin lay will be a fortune to you
Don't you forget to add three pint-pots and a milk-can
No, no, my dear. The pint-pots were great strokes of genius: but the milk-can was a perfect masterpiece
Pretty well, I think, for a beginner
The pots I took off airy railings, and the milk-can was standing by itself outside a public-house. I thought it might get rusty with the rain, or catch cold, yer know. Eh? Ha! ha! ha
I want you, Bolter
to do a piece of work for me, my dear, that needs great care and caution
I say
don't yer go shoving me into danger, or sending me any more o' yer police-offices. That don't suit me, that don't; and so I tell yer
That's not the smallest danger in it -- not the very smallest
it's only to dodge a woman
An old woman
A young one
I can do that pretty well, I know
I was a regular cunning sneak when I was at school. What am I to dodge her for? Not to
Not to do anything, but to tell me where she goes, who she sees, and, if possible, what she says; to remember the street, if it is a street, or the house, if it is a house; and to bring me back all the information you can
What'll yer give me
If you do it well, a pound, my dear. One pound
And that's what I never gave yet, for any job of work where there wasn't valuable consideration to be gained
Who is she
One of us
Oh Lor
Yer doubtful of her, are yer
She has found out some new friends, my dear, and I must know who they are
I see
Just to have the pleasure of knowing them, if they're respectable people, eh? Ha! ha! ha! I'm your man
I knew you would be
Of course, of course
Where is she? Where am I to wait for her? Where am I to go
All that, my dear, you shall hear from me. I'll point her out at the proper time
You keep ready, and leave the rest to me
She goes abroad to-night
and on the right errand, I'm sure; for she has been alone all day, and the man she is afraid of will not be back much before daybreak. Come with me. Quick
Is that the woman
I can't see her face well
Stay there
I see her now
Plainly
I should know her among a thousand
Hist
Dow
To the left
take the left had, and keep od the other side
Not here
I am afraid to speak to you here. Come away -- out of the public road -- down the steps yonder
This is far enough
I will not suffer the young lady to go any farther. Many people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far, but you see I am willing to humour you
To humour me
You're considerate, indeed, sir. To humour me! Well, well, it's no matter
Why, for what
for what purpose can you have brought us to this strange place? Why not have let me speak to you, above there, where it is light, and there is something stirring, instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole
I told you before
that I was afraid to speak to you there. I don't know why it is
but I have such a fear and dread upon me to-night that I can hardly stand
A fear of what
I scarcely know of what
I wish I did. Horrible thoughts of death, and shrouds with blood upon them, and a fear that has made me burn as if I was on fire, have been upon me all day. I was reading a book to-night, to wile the time away, and the same things came into the print
Imagination
No imagination
I'll swear I saw "coffin" written in every page of the book in large black letters,-- aye, and they carried one close to me, in the streets to-night
There is nothing unusual in that
They have passed me often
_Real ones_
This was not
Speak to her kindly
Poor creature! She seems to need it
Your haughty religious people would have held their heads up to see me as I am to-night, and preached of flames and vengeance
Ah
A Turk turns his face, after washing it well, to the East, when he says his prayers; these good people, after giving their faces such a rub against the World as to take the smiles off, turn with no less regularity, to the darkest side of Heaven. Between the Mussulman and the Pharisee, commend me to the first
You were not here last Sunday night
I couldn't come
I was kept by force
By whom
Him that I told the young lady of before
You were not suspected of holding any communication with anybody on the subject which has brought us here to-night, I hope
No
It's not very easy for me to leave him unless he knows why; I couldn't give him a drink of laudanum before I came away
Did he awake before you returned
No; and neither he nor any of them suspect me
Good
Now listen to me
I am ready
This young lady
has communicated to me, and to some other friends who can be safely trusted, what you told her nearly a fortnight since. I confess to you that I had doubts, at first, whether you were to be implicitly relied upon, but now I firmly believe you are
I am
I repeat that I firmly believe it. To prove to you that I am disposed to trust you, I tell you without reserve, that we propose to extort the secret, whatever it may be, from the fear of this man Monks. But if -- if
he cannot be secured, or, if secured, cannot be acted upon as we wish, you must deliver up the Jew
Fagin
That man must be delivered up by you
I will not do it! I will never do it
Devil that he is, and worse than devil as he has been to me, I will never do that
You will not
Never
Tell me why
For one reason
for one reason, that the lady knows and will stand by me in, I know she will, for I have her promise: and for this other reason, besides, that, bad life as he has led, I have led a bad life too; there are many of us who have kept the same courses together, and I'll not turn upon them, who might -- any of them -- have turned upon me, but didn't, bad as they are
Then
put Monks into my hands, and leave him to me to deal with
What if he turns against the others
I promise you that in that case, if the truth is forced from him, there the matter will rest; there must be circumstances in Oliver's little history which it would be painful to drag before the public eye, and if the truth is once elicited, they shall go scot free
And if it is not
Then
this Fagin shall not be brought to justice without your consent. In such a case I could show you reasons, I think, which would induce you to yield it
Have I the lady's promise for that
You have
My true and faithful pledge
Monks would never learn how you knew what you do
Never
The intelligence should be brought to bear upon him, that he could never even guess
I have been a liar, and among liars from a little child
but I will take your words
He is tall
and a strongly made man, but not stout; he has a lurking walk; and as he walks, constantly looks over his shoulder, first on one side, and then on the other. Don't forget that, for his eyes are sunk in his head so much deeper than any other man's, that you might almost tell him by that alone. His face is dark, like his hair and eyes; and, although he can't be more than six or eight and twenty, withered and haggard. His lips are often discoloured and disfigured with the marks of teeth; for he has desperate fits, and sometimes even bites his hands and covers them with wounds -- why did you start
Part of this
I have drawn out from other people at the house I tell you of, for I have only seen him twice, and both times he was covered up in a large cloak. I think that's all I can give you to know him by. Stay though
Upon his throat: so high that you can see a part of it below his neckerchief when he turns his face: there is
A broad red mark, like a burn or scald
How's this
You know him
I think I do
I should by your description. We shall see. Many people are singularly like each other. It may not be the same
It must be he
Now
you have given us most valuable assistance, young woman, and I wish you to be the better for it. What can I do to serve you
Nothing
You will not persist in saying that
Think now. Tell me
Nothing, sir
You can do nothing to help me. I am past all hope, indeed
You put yourself beyond its pale
The past has been a dreary waste with you, of youthful energies mis-spent, and such priceless treasures lavished, as the Creator bestows but once and never grants again, but, for the future, you may hope. I do not say that it is in our power to offer you peace of heart and mind, for that must come as you seek it; but a quiet asylum, either in England, or, if you fear to remain here, in some foreign country, it is not only within the compass of our ability but our most anxious wish to secure you. Before the dawn of morning, before this river wakes to the first glimpse of day-light, you shall be placed as entirely beyond the reach of your former associates, and leave as utter an absence of all trace behind you, as if you were to disappear from the earth this moment. Come! I would not have you go back to exchange one word with any old companion, or take one look at any old haunt, or breathe the very air which is pestilence and death to you. Quit them all, while there is time and opportunity
She will be persuaded now
She hesitates, I am sure
I fear not, my dear
No sir, I do not
I am chained to my old life. I loathe and hate it now, but I cannot leave it. I must have gone too far to turn back,-- and yet I don't know, for if you had spoken to me so, some time ago, I should have laughed it off. But
this fear comes over me again. I must go home
Home
Home, lady
To such a home as I have raised for myself with the work of my whole life. Let us part. I shall be watched or seen. Go! Go! If I have done you any service all I ask is, that you leave me, and let me go my way alone
It is useless
We compromise her safety, perhaps, by staying here. We may have detained her longer than she expected already
Yes, yes
You have
What
can be the end of this poor creature's life
What
Look before you, lady. Look at that dark water. How many times do you read of such as I who spring into the tide, and leave no living thing, to care for, or bewail them. It may be years hence, or it may be only months, but I shall come to that at last
Do not speak thus, pray
It will never reach your ears, dear lady, and God forbid such horrors should
Good-night, good-night
This purse
Take it for my sake, that you may have some resource in an hour of need and trouble
No
I have not done this for money. Let me have that to think of. And yet -- give me something that you have worn: I should like to have something -- no, no, not a ring -- your gloves or handkerchief -- anything that I can keep, as having belonged to you, sweet lady. There. Bless you! God bless you. Good-night, good-night
Hark
Did she call! I thought I heard her voice
No, my love
She has not moved, and will not till we are gone
At last
At last
There
Take care of that, and do the most you can with it. It's been trouble enough to get; I thought I should have been here, three hours ago
Wot now
Wot do you look at a man so for
Damme
He's gone mad. I must look to myself here
No, no
It's not -- you're not the person, Bill. I've no -- no fault to find with you
Oh, you haven't, haven't you
That's lucky -- for one of us. Which one that is, don't matter
I've got that to tell you, Bill
will make you worse than me
Aye
Tell away! Look sharp, or Nance will think I'm lost
Lost
She has pretty well settled that, in her own mind, already
Speak, will you
or if you don't, it shall be for want of breath. Open your mouth and say wot you've got to say in plain words. Out with it, you thundering old cur, out with it
Suppose that lad that's laying there
Well
Suppose that lad
was to peach -- to blow upon us all -- first seeking out the right folks for the purpose, and then having a meeting with 'em in the street to paint our likenesses, describe every mark that they might know us by, and the crib where we might be most easily taken. Suppose he was to do all this, and besides to blow upon a plant we've all been in, more or less -- of his own fancy; not grabbed, trapped, tried, earwigged by the parson and brought to it on bread and water,-- but of his own fancy; to please his own taste; stealing out at nights to find those most interested against us, and peaching to them. Do you hear me
Suppose he did all this, what then
What then
If he was left alive till I came, I'd grind his skull under the iron heel of my boot into as many grains as there are hairs upon his head
What if I did it
I, that knows so much, and could hang so many besides myself
I don't know
ud get me put in irons; and if I was tried along with you, I'd fall upon you with them in the open court, and beat your brains out afore the people. I should have such strength
that I could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over it
You would
Would I
Try me
If it was Charley, or the Dodger, or Bet, or
I don't care who
Whoever it was, I'd serve them the same
Bolter, Bolter! Poor lad
He's tired -- tired with watching for her so long,-- watching for _her_, Bill
Wot d'ye mean
Tell me that again -- once again, just for him to hear
Tell yer what
That about -- _Nancy_
You followed her
Yes
To London Bridge
Yes
Where she met two people
So she did
A gentleman and a lady that she had gone to of her own accord before, who asked her to give up all her pals, and Monks first, which she did -- and to describe him, which she did -- and to tell her what house it was that we meet at, and go to, which she did -- and where it could be best watched from, which she did -- and what time the people went there, which she did. She did all this. She told it all every word without a threat, without a murmur -- she did -- did she not
All right
That's just what it was
What did they say, about last Sunday
About last Sunday
Why I told yer that before
Again. Tell it again
They asked her
they asked her why she didn't come, last Sunday, as she promised. She said she couldn't
Why -- why? Tell him that
Because she was forcibly kept at home by Bill, the man she had told them of before
What more of him
What more of the man she had told them of before? Tell him that, tell him that
Why, that she couldn't very easily get out of doors unless he knew where she was going to
and so the first time she went to see the lady, she -- ha! ha! ha! it made me laugh when she said it, that it did -- she gave him a drink of laudanum
Hell's fire
Let me go
Bill, Bill
A word. Only a word
Let me out
Don't speak to me; it's not safe. Let me out, I say
Hear me speak a word
You won't be
Well
You won't be -- too -- violent, Bill
I mean
not too violent for safety. Be crafty, Bill, and not too bold
Get up
It is you, Bill
It is
Get up
Let it be
There's enough light for wot I've got to do
Bill
why do you look like that at me
Bill, Bill
I -- I won't scream or cry -- not once -- hear me -- speak to me -- tell me what I have done
You know, you she devil
You were watched to-night; every word you said was heard
Then spare my life for the love of Heaven, as I spared yours
Bill, dear Bill, you cannot have the heart to kill me. Oh! think of all I have given up, only this one night, for you. You _shall_ have time to think, and save yourself this crime; I will not loose my hold, you cannot throw me off. Bill, Bill, for dear God's sake, for your own, for mine, stop before you spill my blood! I have been true to you, upon my guilty soul I have
Bill
the gentleman and that dear lady, told me to-night of a home in some foreign country where I could end my days in solitude and peace. Let me see them again, and beg them, on my knees, to show the same mercy and goodness to you; and let us both leave this dreadful place, and far apart lead better lives, and forget how we have lived, except in prayers, and never see each other more. It is never too late to repent. They told me so -- I feel it now -- but we must have time -- a little, little time
And what be that stoof? Good to eat, Harry
This
this is the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain, rust, dirt, mildew, spick, speck, spot, or spatter, from silk, satin, linen, cambric, cloth, crape, stuff, carpet, merino, muslin, bombazeen, or woollen stuff. Wine-stains, fruit-stains, beer-stains, water-stains, paint-stains, pitch-stains, any stains, all come out at one rub with the infallible and invaluable composition. If a lady stains her honour, she has only need to swallow one cake and she's cured at once -- for it's poison. If a gentleman wants to prove this, he has only need to bolt one little square, and he has put it beyond question -- for it's quite as satisfactory as a pistol-bullet, and a great deal nastier in the flavour, consequently the more credit in taking it. One penny a square. With all these virtues, one penny a square
It's all bought up as fast as it can be made
There are fourteen water-mills, six steam-engines, and a galvanic battery, always a-working upon it, and they can't make it fast enough, though the men work so hard that they die off, and the widows is pensioned directly, with twenty pound a-year for each of the children, and a premium of fifty for twins. One penny a square! Two half-pence is all the same, and four farthings is received with joy. One penny a square! Wine-stains, fruit-stains, beer-stains, water-stains, paint-stains, pitch-stains, mud-stains, blood-stains! Here is a stain upon the hat of a gentleman in company, that I'll take clean out, before he can order me a pint of ale
Hah
Give that back
I'll take it clean out, sir
before you can come across the room to get it. Gentlemen all, observe the dark stain upon this gentleman's hat, no wider than a shilling, but thicker than a half-crown. Whether it is a wine-stain, fruit-stain, beer-stain, water-stain, paint-stain, pitch-stain, mud-stain, or blood-stain
That's for your people
Now, look alive in there, will you. Damn that 'ere bag, it warn't ready night afore last; this won't do, you know
Anything new up in town, Ben
No, nothing that I knows on
Corn's up a little. I heerd talk of a murder, too, down Spitalfields way, but I don't reckon much upon it
Oh, that's quite true
And a dreadful murder it was
Was it, sir
Man or woman, pray, sir
A woman
It is supposed
Now, Ben
Damn that 'ere bag
are you gone to sleep in there
Coming
Coming
Ah, and so's the young 'ooman of property that's going to take a fancy to me, but I don't know when. Here, give hold. All ri -- ight
He has gone to Birmingham, they say
but they'll have him yet, for the scouts are out, and by to-morrow night there'll be a cry all through the country
There's somebody to speak to there, at all event
A good hiding-place, too. They'll never expect to nab me there, after this country scent. Why can't I lie by for a week or so, and, forcing blunt from Fagin, get abroad to France? Damme, I'll risk it
Do you hear me call? Come here
Come back
He knows the alternative
If he hesitates or moves a finger but as you bid him, drag him into the street, call for the aid of the police, and impeach him as a felon in my name
How dare you say this of me
How dare you urge me to it, young man
Are you mad enough to leave this house? Unhand him. There, sir. You are free to go, and we to follow. But I warn you, by all I hold most solemn and most sacred, that instant will have you apprehended on a charge of fraud and robbery. I am resolute and immoveable. If you are determined to be the same, your blood be upon your own head
By what authority am I kidnapped in the street, and brought here by these dogs
By mine
Those persons are indemnified by me. If you complain of being deprived of your liberty -- you had power and opportunity to retrieve it as you came along, but you deemed it advisable to remain quiet -- I say again, throw yourself for protection on the law. I will appeal to the law too; but when you have gone too far to recede, do not sue to me for leniency, when the power will have passed into other hands; and do not say I plunged you down the gulf into which you rushed, yourself
You will decide quickly
If you wish me to prefer my charges publicly, and consign you to a punishment the extent of which, although I can, with a shudder, foresee, I cannot control, once more, I say, for you know the way. If not, and you appeal to my forbearance, and the mercy of those you have deeply injured, seat yourself, without a word, in that chair. It has waited for you two whole days
You will be prompt
A word from me, and the alternative has gone for ever
I have not the inclination to parley
and, as I advocate the dearest interests of others, I have not the right
Is there --' demanded Monks with a faltering tongue
None
Lock the door on the outside
and come when I ring
This is pretty treatment, sir
from my father's oldest friend
It is because I was your father's oldest friend, young man
it is because the hopes and wishes of young and happy years were bound up with him, and that fair creature of his blood and kindred who rejoined her God in youth, and left me here a solitary, lonely man: it is because he knelt with me beside his only sisters' death-bed when he was yet a boy, on the morning that would -- but Heaven willed otherwise -- have made her my young wife; it is because my seared heart clung to him, from that time forth, through all his trials and errors, till he died; it is because old recollections and associations filled my heart, and even the sight of you brings with it old thoughts of him; it is because of all these things that I am moved to treat you gently now -- yes, Edward Leeford, even now -- and blush for your unworthiness who bear the name
What has the name to do with it
What is the name to me
Nothing
nothing to you. But it was _hers_, and even at this distance of time brings back to me, an old man, the glow and thrill which I once felt, only to hear it repeated by a stranger. I am very glad you have changed it -- very -- very
This is all mighty fine
But what do you want with me
You have a brother
a brother, the whisper of whose name in your ear when I came behind you in the street, was, in itself, almost enough to make you accompany me hither, in wonder and alarm
I have no brother
You know I was an only child. Why do you talk to me of brothers? You know that, as well as I
Attend to what I do know, and you may not
I shall interest you by and by. I know that of the wretched marriage, into which family pride, and the most sordid and narrowest of all ambition, forced your unhappy father when a mere boy, you were the sole and most unnatural issue
I don't care for hard names
You know the fact, and that's enough for me
But I also know
the misery, the slow torture, the protracted anguish of that ill-assorted union. I know how listlessly and wearily each of that wretched pair dragged on their heavy chain through a world that was poisoned to them both. I know how cold formalities were succeeded by open taunts; how indifference gave place to dislike, dislike to hate, and hate to loathing, until at last they wrenched the clanking bond asunder, and retiring a wide space apart, carried each a galling fragment, of which nothing but death could break the rivets, to hide it in new society beneath the gayest looks they could assume. Your mother succeeded; she forgot it soon. But it rusted and cankered at your father's heart for years
Well, they were separated
and what of that
When they had been separated for some time
and your mother, wholly given up to continental frivolities, had utterly forgotten the young husband ten good years her junior, who, with prospects blighted, lingered on at home, he fell among new friends. This circumstance, at least, you know already
Not I
Not I
Your manner, no less than your actions, assures me that you have never forgotten it, or ceased to think of it with bitterness
I speak of fifteen years ago, when you were not more than eleven years old, and your father but one-and-thirty -- for he was, I repeat, a boy, when _his_ father ordered him to marry. Must I go back to events which cast a shade upon the memory of your parent, or will you spare it, and disclose to me the truth
I have nothing to disclose
You must talk on if you will
These new friends, then
were a naval officer retired from active service, whose wife had died some half-a-year before, and left him with two children -- there had been more, but, of all their family, happily but two survived. They were both daughters; one a beautiful creature of nineteen, and the other a mere child of two or three years old
What's this to me
They resided
in a part of the country to which your father in his wandering had repaired, and where he had taken up his abode. Acquaintance, intimacy, friendship, fast followed on each other. Your father was gifted as few men are. He had his sister's soul and person. As the old officer knew him more and more, he grew to love him. I would that it had ended there. His daughter did the same
The end of a year found him contracted, solemnly contracted, to that daughter; the object of the first, true, ardent, only passion of a guileless girl
Your tale is of the longest
It is a true tale of grief and trial, and sorrow, young man
and such tales usually are; if it were one of unmixed joy and happiness, it would be very brief. At length one of those rich relations to strengthen whose interest and importance your father had been sacrificed, as others are often -- it is no uncommon case -- died, and to repair the misery he had been instrumental in occasioning, left him his panacea for all griefs -- Money. It was necessary that he should immediately repair to Rome, whither this man had sped for health, and where he had died, leaving his affairs in great confusion. He went; was seized with mortal illness there; was followed, the moment the intelligence reached Paris, by your mother who carried you with her; he died the day after her arrival, leaving no will -- _no will_ -- so that the whole property fell to her and you
Before he went abroad, and as he passed through London on his way
he came to me
I never heard of that
He came to me, and left with me, among some other things, a picture -- a portrait painted by himself -- a likeness of this poor girl -- which he did not wish to leave behind, and could not carry forward on his hasty journey. He was worn by anxiety and remorse almost to a shadow; talked in a wild, distracted way, of ruin and dishonour worked by himself; confided to me his intention to convert his whole property, at any loss, into money, and, having settled on his wife and you a portion of his recent acquisition, to fly the country -- I guessed too well he would not fly alone -- and never see it more. Even from me, his old and early friend, whose strong attachment had taken root in the earth that covered one most dear to both -- even from me he withheld any more particular confession, promising to write and tell me all, and after that to see me once again, for the last time on earth. Alas! _That_ was the last time. I had no letter, and I never saw him more
I went
I went, when all was over, to the scene of his -- I will use the term the world would freely use, for worldly harshness or favour are now alike to him -- of his guilty love, resolved that if my fears were realised that erring child should find one heart and home to shelter and compassionate her. The family had left that part a week before; they had called in such trifling debts as were outstanding, discharged them, and left the place by night. Why, or whither, none can tell
When your brother
When your brother: a feeble, ragged, neglected child: was cast in my way by a stronger hand than chance, and rescued by me from a life of vice and infamy
What
By me
I told you I should interest you before long. I say by me -- I see that your cunning associate suppressed my name, although for ought he knew, it would be quite strange to your ears. When he was rescued by me, then, and lay recovering from sickness in my house, his strong resemblance to this picture I have spoken of, struck me with astonishment. Even when I first saw him in all his dirt and misery, there was a lingering expression in his face that came upon me like a glimpse of some old friend flashing on one in a vivid dream. I need not tell you he was snared away before I knew his history
Why not
Because you know it well
I
Denial to me is vain
I shall show you that I know more than that
You -- you -- can't prove anything against me
I defy you to do it
We shall see
I lost the boy, and no efforts of mine could recover him. Your mother being dead, I knew that you alone could solve the mystery if anybody could, and as when I had last heard of you you were on your own estate in the West Indies -- whither, as you well know, you retired upon your mother's death to escape the consequences of vicious courses here -- I made the voyage. You had left it, months before, and were supposed to be in London, but no one could tell where. I returned. Your agents had no clue to your residence. You came and went, they said, as strangely as you had ever done: sometimes for days together and sometimes not for months: keeping to all appearance the same low haunts and mingling with the same infamous herd who had been your associates when a fierce ungovernable boy. I wearied them with new applications. I paced the streets by night and day, but until two hours ago, all my efforts were fruitless, and I never saw you for an instant
And now you do see me
what then? Fraud and robbery are high-sounding words -- justified, you think, by a fancied resemblance in some young imp to an idle daub of a dead man's Brother! You don't even know that a child was born of this maudlin pair; you don't even know that
I _did not_
but within the last fortnight I have learnt it all. You have a brother; you know it, and him. There was a will, which your mother destroyed, leaving the secret and the gain to you at her own death. It contained a reference to some child likely to be the result of this sad connection, which child was born, and accidentally encountered by you, when your suspicions were first awakened by his resemblance to your father. You repaired to the place of his birth. There existed proofs -- proofs long suppressed -- of his birth and parentage. Those proofs were destroyed by you, and now, in your own words to your accomplice the Jew, "_the only proofs of the boy's identity lie at the bottom of the river, and the old hag that received them from the mother is rotting in her coffin_." Unworthy son, coward, liar,-- you, who hold your councils with thieves and murderers in dark rooms at night,-- you, whose plots and wiles have brought a violent death upon the head of one worth millions such as you,-- you, who from your cradle were gall and bitterness to your own father's heart, and in whom all evil passions, vice, and profligacy, festered, till they found a vent in a hideous disease which had made your face an index even to your mind -- you, Edward Leeford, do you still brave me
No, no, no
Every word
every word that has passed between you and this detested villain, is known to me. Shadows on the wall have caught your whispers, and brought them to my ear; the sight of the persecuted child has turned vice itself, and given it the courage and almost the attributes of virtue. Murder has been done, to which you were morally if not really a party
No, no
I -- I knew nothing of that; I was going to inquire the truth of the story when you overtook me. I didn't know the cause. I thought it was a common quarrel
It was the partial disclosure of your secrets
Will you disclose the whole
Yes, I will
Set your hand to a statement of truth and facts, and repeat it before witnesses
That I promise too
Remain quietly here, until such a document is drawn up, and proceed with me to such a place as I may deem most advisable, for the purpose of attesting it
If you insist upon that, I'll do that also
You must do more than that
Make restitution to an innocent and unoffending child, for such he is, although the offspring of a guilty and most miserable love. You have not forgotten the provisions of the will. Carry them into execution so far as your brother is concerned, and then go where you please. In this world you need meet no more
The man will be taken
He will be taken to-night
The murderer
Yes, yes
His dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt, and there seems little doubt that his master either is, or will be, there, under cover of the darkness. Spies are hovering about in every direction. I have spoken to the men who are charged with his capture, and they tell me he cannot escape. A reward of a hundred pounds is proclaimed by Government to-night
I will give fifty more
and proclaim it with my own lips upon the spot, if I can reach it. Where is Mr. Maylie
Harry? As soon as he had seen your friend here, safe in a coach with you, he hurried off to where he heard this
and mounting his horse sallied forth to join the first party at some place in the outskirts agreed upon between them
Fagin
what of him
When I last heard, he had not been taken, but he will be, or is, by this time. They're sure of him
Have you made up your mind
Yes
You -- you -- will be secret with me
I will. Remain here till I return. It is your only hope of safety
What have you done
All that I could hope to do, and even more. Coupling the poor girl's intelligence with my previous knowledge, and the result of our good friend's inquiries on the spot, I left him no loophole of escape, and laid bare the whole villainy which by these lights became plain as day. Write and appoint the evening after to-morrow, at seven, for the meeting. We shall be down there, a few hours before, but shall require rest: especially the young lady, who _may_ have greater need of firmness than either you or I can quite foresee just now. But my blood boils to avenge this poor murdered creature. Which way have they taken
Drive straight to the office and you will be in time
I will remain here
I wish
that you had picked out some other crib when the two old ones got too warm, and had not come here, my fine feller
Why didn't you, blunder-head
Well, I thought you'd have been a little more glad to see me than this
Why, look'e, young gentleman
when a man keeps himself so very ex-clusive as I have done, and by that means has a snug house over his head with nobody a prying and smelling about it, it's rather a startling thing to have the honour of a wisit from a young gentleman (however respectable and pleasant a person he may be to play cards with at conweniency) circumstanced as you are
Especially, when the exclusive young man has got a friend stopping with him, that's arrived sooner than was expected from foreign parts, and is too modest to want to be presented to the Judges on his return
When was Fagin took then
And Bet
Poor Bet! She went to see the Body, to speak to who it was
and went off mad, screaming and raving, and beating her head against the boards; so they put a strait-weskut on her and took her to the hospital -- and there she is
Wot's come of young Bates
He hung about, not to come over here afore dark, but he'll be here soon
There's nowhere else to go to now, for the people at the Cripples are all in custody, and the bar of the ken -- I went up there and see it with my own eyes -- is filled with traps
This is a smash
There's more than one will go with this
The sessions are on
if they get the inquest over, and Bolter turns King's evidence: as of course he will, from what he's said already: they can prove Fagin an accessory before the fact, and get the trial on on Friday, and he'll swing in six days from this, by G
You should have heard the people groan
the officers fought like devils, or they'd have torn him away. He was down once, but they made a ring round him, and fought their way along. You should have seen how he looked about him, all muddy and bleeding, and clung to them as if they were his dearest friends. I can see 'em now, not able to stand upright with the pressing of the mob, and draggin him along amongst 'em; I can see the people jumping up, one behind another, and snarling with their teeth and making at him; I can see the blood upon his hair and beard, and hear the cries with which the women worked themselves into the centre of the crowd at the street corner, and swore they'd tear his heart out
What's the meaning of this
He can't be coming here. I -- I -- hope not
If he was coming here, he'd have come with the dog
Here! Give us some water for him; he has run himself faint
He's drunk it all up, every drop
Covered with mud -- lame -- half blind -- he must have come a long way
Where can he have come from
He's been to the other kens of course, and finding them filled with strangers come on here, where he's been many a time and often. But where can he have come from first, and how comes he here alone without the other
He
He can't have made away with himself. What do you think
If he had
ud want to lead us away to where he did it. No. I think he's got out of the country, and left the dog behind. He must have given him the slip somehow, or he wouldn't be so easy
Young Bates
We must let him in
Isn't there any help for it
None. He _must_ come in
Don't leave us in the dark
How came that dog here
Alone. Three hours ago
To-night's paper says that Fagin's took. Is it true, or a lie
True
Damn you all
Have you nothing to say to me
You that keep this house
do you mean to sell me, or to let me lie here till this hunt is over
You may stop here, if you think it safe
Is -- it -- the body -- is it buried
Why isn't it
Wot do they keep such ugly things above the ground for?-- Who's that knocking
Toby
why didn't you tell me this, downstairs
Let me go into some other room
Charley
Don't you -- don't you know me
Don't come nearer me
You monster
Witness you three
Witness you three -- I'm not afraid of him -- if they come here after him, I'll give him up; I will. I tell you out at once. He may kill me for it if he likes, or if he dares, but if I am here I'll give him up. I'd give him up if he was to be boiled alive. Murder! Help! If there's the pluck of a man among you three, you'll help me. Murder! Help! Down with him
Help
He's here! Break down the door
In the King's name
Break down the door
I tell you they'll never open it. Run straight to the room where the light is. Break down the door
Open the door of some place where I can lock this screeching Hell-babe
That door. Quick
Is the downstairs door fast
Double-locked and chained
The panels -- are they strong
Lined with sheet-iron
And the windows too
Yes, and the windows
Damn you
Do your worst! I'll cheat you yet
Twenty guineas to the man who brings a ladder
The tide
the tide was in as I came up. Give me a rope, a long rope. They're all in front. I may drop into the Folly Ditch, and clear off that way. Give me a rope, or I shall do three more murders and kill myself
They have him now
Hurrah
I will give fifty pounds
to the man who takes him alive. I will remain here, till he come to ask me for it
The eyes again
It was quite true
that they must know them before long, but it might be at a better time than the present, and it could not be at a worse
See there, there
that's the stile I came over; there are the hedges I crept behind, for fear any one should overtake me and force me back! Yonder is the path across the fields, leading to the old house where I was a little child! Oh Dick, Dick, my dear old friend, if I could only see you now
You will see him soon
You shall tell him how happy you are, and how rich you have grown, and that in all your happiness you have none so great as the coming back to make him happy too
Yes, yes
and we'll -- we'll take him away from here, and have him clothed and taught, and send him to some quiet country place where he may grow strong and well,-- shall we
yes
You will be kind and good to him, for you are to every one
It will make you cry, I know, to hear what he can tell; but never mind, never mind, it will be all over, and you will smile again -- I know that too -- to think how changed he is; you did the same with me. He said "God bless you" to me when I ran away
and I will say "God bless you" now, and show him how I love him for it
This is a painful task
but these declarations, which have been signed in London before many gentlemen, must be in substance repeated here. I would have spared you the degradation, but we must hear them from your own lips before we part, and you know why
Go on
Quick. I have almost done enough, I think. Don't keep me here
This child
is your half-brother; the illegitimate son of your father, my dear friend Edwin Leeford, by poor young Agnes Fleming, who died in giving him birth
Yes
That is the bastard child
The term you use
is a reproach to those long since passed beyond the feeble censure of the world. It reflects disgrace on no one living, except you who use it. Let that pass. He was born in this town
In the workhouse of this town
You have the story there
I must have it here, too
Listen then! You
and enclosed in a few short lines to you, with an intimation on the cover of the package that it was not to be forwarded till after he was dead. One of these papers was a letter to this girl Agnes; the other a will
What of the letter
The letter?-- A sheet of paper crossed and crossed again, with a penitent confession, and prayers to God to help her. He had palmed a tale on the girl that some secret mystery -- to be explained one day -- prevented his marrying her just then; and so she had gone on, trusting patiently to him, until she trusted too far, and lost what none could ever give her back. She was, at that time, within a few months of her confinement. He told her all he had meant to do, to hide her shame, if he had lived, and prayed her, if he died, not to curse his memory, or think the consequences of their sin would be visited on her or their young child; for all the guilt was his. He reminded her of the day he had given her the little locket and the ring with her christian name engraved upon it, and a blank left for that which he hoped one day to have bestowed upon her -- prayed her yet to keep it, and wear it next her heart, as she had done before -- and then ran on, wildly, in the same words, over and over again, as if he had gone distracted. I believe he had
The will
The will
was in the same spirit as the letter. He talked of miseries which his wife had brought upon him; of the rebellious disposition, vice, malice, and premature bad passions of you his only son, who had been trained to hate him; and left you, and your mother, each an annuity of eight hundred pounds. The bulk of his property he divided into two equal portions -- one for Agnes Fleming, and the other for their child, if it should be born alive, and ever come of age. If it were a girl, it was to inherit the money unconditionally; but if a boy, only on the stipulation that in his minority he should never have stained his name with any public act of dishonour, meanness, cowardice, or wrong. He did this, he said, to mark his confidence in the other, and his conviction -- only strengthened by approaching death -- that the child would share her gentle heart, and noble nature. If he were disappointed in this expectation, then the money was to come to you: for then, and not till then, when both children were equal, would he recognise your prior claim upon his purse, who had none upon his heart, but had, from an infant, repulsed him with coldness and aversion
My mother
did what a woman should have done. She burnt this will. The letter never reached its destination; but that, and other proofs, she kept, in case they ever tried to lie away the blot. The girl's father had the truth from her with every aggravation that her violent hate -- I love her for it now -- could add. Goaded by shame and dishonour he fled with his children into a remote corner of Wales, changing his very name that his friends might never know of his retreat; and here, no great while afterwards, he was found dead in his bed. The girl had left her home, in secret, some weeks before; he had searched for her, on foot, in every town and village near; it was on the night when he returned home, assured that she had destroyed herself, to hide her shame and his, that his old heart broke
Years after this
this man's -- Edward Leeford's -- mother came to me. He had left her, when only eighteen; robbed her of jewels and money; gambled, squandered, forged, and fled to London: where for two years he had associated with the lowest outcasts. She was sinking under a painful and incurable disease, and wished to recover him before she died. Inquiries were set on foot, and strict searches made. They were unavailing for a long time, but ultimately successful; and he went back with her to France
There she died
after a lingering illness; and, on her death-bed, she bequeathed these secrets to me, together with her unquenchable and deadly hatred of all whom they involved -- though she need not have left me that, for I had inherited it long before. She would not believe that the girl had destroyed herself, and the child too, but was filled with the impression that a male child had been born, and was alive. I swore to her, if ever it crossed my path, to hunt it down; never to let it rest; to pursue it with the bitterest and most unrelenting animosity; to vent upon it the hatred that I deeply felt, and to spit upon the empty vaunt of that insulting will by draggin it, if I could, to the very gallows-foot. She was right. He came in my way at last. I began well; and, but for babbling drabs, I would have finished as I began
The locket and ring
I bought them from the man and woman I told you of, who stole them from the nurse, who stole them from the corpse
You know what became of them
Do my hi's deceive me
or is that little Oliver? Oh O-li-ver, if you know'd how I've been a-grieving for you
Hold your tongue, fool
Isn't natur, natur, Mrs. Bumble
Can't I be supposed to feel -- _I_ as brought him up porochially -- when I see him a-setting here among ladies and gentlemen of the very affablest description! I always loved that boy as if he'd been my -- my -- my own grandfather
Master Oliver, my dear, you remember the blessed gentleman in the white waistcoat? Ah! he went to heaven last week, in a oak coffin with plated handles, Oliver
Come, sir
suppress your feelings
I will do my endeavours, sir
How do you do, sir? I hope you are very well
Do you know that person
No
Perhaps _you_ don't
I never saw him in all my life
Nor sold him anything, perhaps
No
You never had, perhaps, a certain gold locket and ring
Certainly not
Why are we brought here to answer to such nonsense as this
You shut the door the night old Sally died
but you couldn't shut out the sound, nor stop the chinks
No, no
No, no, no
We heard her try to tell you what she'd done, and saw you take a paper from her hand, and watched you too, next day, to the pawnbroker's shop
Yes
and it was a "locket and gold ring." We found out that, and saw it given you. We were by. Oh! we were by
And we know more than that
for she told us often, long ago, that the young mother had told her that, feeling she should never get over it, she was on her way, at the time that she was taken ill, to die near the grave of the father of the child
Would you like to see the pawnbroker himself
No
if he -- she pointed to Monks
Nothing
except that it remains for us to take care that neither of you is employed in a situation of trust again. You may leave the room
I hope
I hope that this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office
Indeed it will
You may make up your mind to that, and think yourself well off besides
It was all Mrs. Bumble. She _would_ do it
That is no excuse
You were present on the occasion of the destruction of these trinkets, and indeed are the more guilty of the two, in the eye of the law; for the law supposes that your wife acts under your direction
If the law supposes that
the law is a ass -- a idiot. If that's the eye of the law, the law is a bachelor; and the worst I wish the law is, that his eye may be opened by experience -- by experience
Young lady
give me your hand. Do not tremble. You need not fear to hear the few remaining words we have to say
If they have -- I do not know how they can, but if they have -- any reference to me
pray let me hear them at some other time. I have not strength or spirits now
Nay
you have more fortitude than this, I am sure. Do you know this young lady, sir
Yes
I never saw you before
I have seen you often
The father of the unhappy Agnes had _two_ daughters
What was the fate of the other -- the child
The child
when her father died in a strange place, in a strange name, without a letter, book, or scrap of paper that yielded the faintest clue by which his friends or relatives could be traced -- the child was taken by some wretched cottagers, who reared it as their own
Go on
Go on
You couldn't find the spot to which these people had repaired
but where friendship fails, hatred will often force a way. My mother found it, after a year of cunning search -- ay, and found the child
She took it, did she
No. The people were poor and began to sicken -- at least the man did -- of their fine humanity; so she left it with them, giving them a small present of money which would not last long, and promised more, which she never meant to send. She didn't quite rely, however, on their discontent and poverty for the child's unhappiness, but told the history of the sister's shame, with such alterations as suited her; bade them take good heed of the child, for she came of bad blood; and told them she was illegitimate, and sure to go wrong at one time or other. The circumstances countenanced all this; the people believed it; and there the child dragged on an existence, miserable enough even to satisfy us, until a widow lady, residing, then, at Chester, saw the girl by chance, pitied her, and took her home. There was some cursed spell, I think, against us; for in spite of all our efforts she remained there and was happy. I lost sight of her, two or three years ago, and saw her no more until a few months back
Do you see her now
Yes. Leaning on your arm
But not the less my niece
not the less my dearest child. I would not lose her now, for all the treasures of the world. My sweet companion, my own dear girl
The only friend I ever had
The kindest, best of friends. My heart will burst. I cannot bear all this
You have borne more, and have been, through all, the best and gentlest creature that ever shed happiness on every one she knew
Come, come, my love, remember who this is who waits to clasp you in his arms, poor child! See here -- look, look, my dear
Not aunt
I'll never call her aunt -- sister, my own dear sister, that something taught my heart to love so dearly from the first! Rose, dear, darling Rose
I know it all
Dear Rose, I know it all
I am not here by accident
nor have I heard all this to-night, for I knew it yesterday -- only yesterday. Do you guess that I have come to remind you of a promise
Stay
You _do_ know all
All. You gave me leave, at any time within a year, to renew the subject of our last discourse
I did
Not to press you to alter your determination
but to hear you repeat it, if you would. I was to lay whatever of station or fortune I might possess at your feet, and if you still adhered to your former determination, I pledged myself, by no word or act, to seek to change it
The same reasons which influenced me then, will influence me now
If I ever owed a strict and rigid duty to her, whose goodness saved me from a life of indigence and suffering, when should I ever feel it, as I should to-night? It is a struggle
but one I am proud to make; it is a pang, but one my heart shall bear
The disclosure of to-night
The disclosure of to-night
leaves me in the same position, with reference to you, as that in which I stood before
You harden your heart against me, Rose
Oh Harry, Harry
I wish I could, and spare myself this pain
Then why inflict it on yourself
Think, dear Rose, think what you have heard to-night
And what have I heard! What have I heard
That a sense of his deep disgrace so worked upon my own father that he shunned all -- there, we have said enough, Harry, we have said enough
Not yet, not yet
My hopes, my wishes, prospects, feeling: every thought in life except my love for you: have undergone a change. I offer you, now, no distinction among a bustling crowd; no mingling with a world of malice and detraction, where the blood is called into honest cheeks by aught but real disgrace and shame; but a home -- a heart and home -- yes, dearest Rose, and those, and those alone, are all I have to offer
What do you mean
I mean but this -- that when I left you last, I left you with a firm determination to level all fancied barriers between yourself and me; resolved that if my world could not be yours, I would make yours mine; that no pride of birth should curl the lip at you, for I would turn from it. This I have done. Those who have shrunk from me because of this, have shrunk from you, and proved you so far right. Such power and patronage: such relatives of influence and rank: as smiled upon me then, look coldly now; but there are smiling fields and waving trees in England's richest county; and by one village church -- mine, Rose, my own!-- there stands a rustic dwelling which you can make me prouder of, than all the hopes I have renounced, measured a thousandfold. This is my rank and station now, and here I lay it down
It's a trying thing waiting supper for lovers
I had serious thoughts of eating my head to-night
for I began to think I should get nothing else. I'll take the liberty, if you'll allow me, of saluting the bride that is to be
Oliver, my child
where have you been, and why do you look so sad? There are tears stealing down your face at this moment. What is the matter
Is the young gentleman to come too, sir
It's not a sight for children, sir
It is not indeed, my friend
but my business with this man is intimately connected with him; and as this child has seen him in the full career of his success and villainy, I think it as well -- even at the cost of some pain and fear -- that he should see him now
This
this is the place he passes through. If you step this way, you can see the door he goes out at
Good boy, Charley -- well done --' he mumbled. 'Oliver, too, ha! ha! ha! Oliver too -- quite the gentleman now -- quite the -- take that boy away to bed
Take him away to bed
Do you hear me, some of you? He has been the -- the -- somehow the cause of all this. It's worth the money to bring him up to it -- Bolter's throat, Bill; never mind the girl -- Bolter's throat as deep as you can cut. Saw his head off
Fagin
That's me
An old man, my Lord; a very old, old man
Here
Here's somebody wants to see you, to ask you some questions, I suppose. Fagin, Fagin! Are you a man
I shan't be one long
Strike them all dead! What right have they to butcher me
Steady
Now, sir, tell him what you want. Quick, if you please, for he grows worse as the time gets on
You have some papers
which were placed in your hands, for better security, by a man called Monks
It's all a lie together
I haven't one -- not one
For the love of God
do not say that now, upon the very verge of death; but tell me where they are. You know that Sikes is dead; that Monks has confessed; that there is no hope of any further gain. Where are those papers
Oliver
Here, here! Let me whisper to you
I am not afraid
The papers
are in a canvas bag, in a hole a little way up the chimney in the top front-room. I want to talk to you, my dear. I want to talk to you
Yes, yes
Let me say a prayer. Do! Let me say one prayer. Say only one, upon your knees, with me, and we will talk till morning
Outside, outside
Say I've gone to sleep -- they'll believe you. You can get me out, if you take me so. Now then, now then
Oh! God forgive this wretched man
That's right, that's right
That'll help us on. This door first. If I shake and tremble, as we pass the gallows, don't you mind, but hurry on. Now, now, now
Have you nothing else to ask him, sir
No other question
If I hoped we could recall him to a sense of his position
Nothing will do that, sir
You had better leave him
Press on, press on
Softly, but not so slow. Faster, faster
AGNES
</text>
