<text>
May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. &lsqb;Perpetual Vice-President -- Member Pickwick Club&rsqb;, presiding. The following resolutions unanimously agreed to:-- 'That this Association has heard read, with feelings of unmingled satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper communicated by Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. &lsqb;General Chairman -- Member Pickwick Club&rsqb;, entitled "Speculations on the Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some Observations on the Theory of Tittlebats;" and that this Association does hereby return its warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., for the same. 

'That while this Association is deeply sensible of the advantages which must accrue to the cause of science, from the production to which they have just adverted -- no less than from the unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and Camberwell -- they cannot but entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which must inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that learned man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and, consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the advancement of knowledge, and the diffusion of learning. 

'That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the aforesaid, Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other Pickwickians hereinafter named, for forming a new branch of United Pickwickians, under the title of The Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club. 

'That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval of this Association. 

'That the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus Snodgrass, Esq., M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are hereby nominated and appointed members of the same; and that they be requested to forward, from time to time, authenticated accounts of their journeys and investigations, of their observations of character and manners, and of the whole of their adventures, together with all tales and papers to which local scenery or associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club, stationed in London. 

'That this Association cordially recognises the principle of every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own travelling expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the members of the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length of time they please, upon the same terms. 

'That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of their letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been deliberated upon by this Association: that this Association considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which it emanated, and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence therein
Mr. BLOTTON would only say then, that he repelled the hon. gent
Mr. A. SNODGRASS rose to order. He threw himself upon the chair. (Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest between two members of that club should be allowed to continue. (Hear, hear.) 'The CHAIRMAN was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw the expression he had just made use of. 

'Mr. BLOTTON, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite sure he would not. 

'The CHAIRMAN felt it his imperative duty to demand of the honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had just escaped him in a common sense. 

'Mr. BLOTTON had no hesitation in saying that he had not -- he had used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) He was bound to acknowledge that, personally, he entertained the highest regard and esteem for the honourable gentleman; he had merely considered him a humbug in a Pickwickian point of view. (Hear, hear.) 

'Mr. PICKWICK felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and full explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at once understood, that his own observations had been merely intended to bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers
Such
are the narrow views of those philosophers who, content with examining the things that lie before them, look not to the truths which are hidden beyond. As well might I be content to gaze on Goswell Street for ever, without one effort to penetrate to the hidden countries which on every side surround it
Cab
Here you are, sir
Here you are, sir. Now, then, fust cab
Golden Cross
Only a bob's vorth, Tommy
How old is that horse, my friend
Forty-two
What
And how long do you keep him out at a time
Two or three veeks
Weeks
He lives at Pentonwil when he's at home
but we seldom takes him home, on account of his weakness
On account of his weakness
He always falls down when he's took out o' the cab
but when he's in it, we bears him up werry tight, and takes him in werry short, so as he can't werry well fall down; and we've got a pair o' precious large wheels on, so ven he does move, they run after him, and he must go on -- he can't help it
Here's your fare
You are mad
Or drunk
Or both
Come on
Come on -- all four on you
Here's a lark
What's the row, Sam
Row
what did he want my number for
I didn't want your number
What did you take it for, then
I didn't take it
Would anybody believe
Did he though
Yes, did he
and then arter aggerawatin' me to assault him, gets three witnesses here to prove it. But I'll give it him, if I've six months for it. Come on
Where's an officer
Put 'em under the pump
You shall smart for this
Informers
Come on
What's the fun
informers
We are not
Ain't you, though -- ain't you
Come along, then
Here, waiter
glasses round -- brandy-and-water, hot and strong, and sweet, and plenty,-- eye damaged, Sir? Waiter! raw beef-steak for the gentleman's eye -- nothing like raw beef-steak for a bruise, sir; cold lamp-post very good, but lamp-post inconvenient -- damned odd standing in the open street half an hour, with your eye against a lamp-post -- eh,-- very good -- ha! ha
Never mind
said enough -- no more; smart chap that cabman -- handled his fives well; but if I'd been your friend in the green jemmy -- damn me -- punch his head
Commodore
my coach -- place booked,-- one outside -- leave you to pay for the brandy- and-water,-- want change for a five,-- bad silver -- Brummagem buttons -- won't do -- no go -- eh
Up with you
Any luggage, Sir
Who -- I? Brown paper parcel here, that's all -- other luggage gone by water -- packing-cases, nailed up -- big as houses -- heavy, heavy, damned heavy
Heads, heads -- take care of your heads
Terrible place -- dangerous work -- other day -- five children -- mother -- tall lady, eating sandwiches -- forgot the arch -- crash -- knock -- children look round -- mother's head off -- sandwich in her hand -- no mouth to put it in -- head of a family off -- shocking, shocking! Looking at Whitehall, sir?-- fine place -- little window -- somebody else's head off there, eh, sir?-- he didn't keep a sharp look-out enough either -- eh, Sir, eh
I am ruminating
on the strange mutability of human affairs
Ah! I see -- in at the palace door one day, out at the window the next. Philosopher, Sir
An observer of human nature, Sir
Ah, so am I. Most people are when they've little to do and less to get. Poet, Sir
My friend Mr. Snodgrass has a strong poetic turn
So have I
Epic poem -- ten thousand lines -- revolution of July -- composed it on the spot -- Mars by day, Apollo by night -- bang the field-piece, twang the lyre
You were present at that glorious scene, sir
Present! think I was;* fired a musket -- fired with an idea -- rushed into wine shop -- wrote it down -- back again -- whiz, bang -- another idea -- wine shop again -- pen and ink -- back again -- cut and slash -- noble time, Sir. Sportsman, sir
A little, Sir
Fine pursuit, sir -- fine pursuit.-- Dogs, Sir
Not just now
Ah! you should keep dogs -- fine animals -- sagacious creatures -- dog of my own once -- pointer -- surprising instinct -- out shooting one day -- entering inclosure -- whistled -- dog stopped -- whistled again -- Ponto -- no go; stock still -- called him -- Ponto, Ponto -- wouldn't move -- dog transfixed -- staring at a board -- looked up, saw an inscription --"Gamekeeper has orders to shoot all dogs found in this inclosure"-- wouldn't pass it -- wonderful dog -- valuable dog that -- very
Singular circumstance that
Will you allow me to make a note of it
Very
English girls not so fine as Spanish -- noble creatures -- jet hair -- black eyes -- lovely forms -- sweet creatures -- beautiful
You have been in Spain, sir
Lived there -- ages
Many conquests, sir
Conquests! Thousands. Don Bolaro Fizzgig -- grandee -- only daughter -- Donna Christina -- splendid creature -- loved me to distraction -- jealous father -- high-souled daughter -- handsome Englishman -- Donna Christina in despair -- prussic acid -- stomach pump in my portmanteau -- operation performed -- old Bolaro in ecstasies -- consent to our union -- join hands and floods of tears -- romantic story -- very
Is the lady in England now, sir
Dead, sir -- dead
Never recovered the stomach pump -- undermined constitution -- fell a victim
And her father
Remorse and misery
Sudden disappearance -- talk of the whole city -- search made everywhere without success -- public fountain in the great square suddenly ceased playing -- weeks elapsed -- still a stoppage -- workmen employed to clean it -- water drawn off -- father-in-law discovered sticking head first in the main pipe, with a full confession in his right boot -- took him out, and the fountain played away again, as well as ever
Will you allow me to note that little romance down, Sir
Certainly, Sir, certainly -- fifty more if you like to hear 'em -- strange life mine -- rather curious history -- not extraordinary, but singular
Magnificent ruin
What a sight for an antiquarian
Ah! fine place
glorious pile -- frowning walls -- tottering arches -- dark nooks -- crumbling staircases -- old cathedral too -- earthy smell -- pilgrims' feet wore away the old steps -- little Saxon doors -- confessionals like money-takers' boxes at theatres -- queer customers those monks -- popes, and lord treasurers, and all sorts of old fellows, with great red faces, and broken noses, turning up every day -- buff jerkins too -- match-locks -- sarcophagus -- fine place -- old legends too -- strange stories: capital
Do you remain here, Sir
Here -- not I -- but you'd better -- good house -- nice beds -- Wright's next house, dear -- very dear -- half-a-crown in the bill if you look at the waiter -- charge you more if you dine at a friend's than they would if you dined in the coffee-room -- rum fellows -- very
You rendered us a very important service this morning, sir
will you allow us to offer a slight mark of our gratitude by begging the favour of your company at dinner
Great pleasure -- not presume to dictate, but broiled fowl and mushrooms -- capital thing! What time
Let me see
it is now nearly three. Shall we say five
Suit me excellently
five precisely -- till then -- care of yourselves
Evidently a traveller in many countries, and a close observer of men and things
I should like to see his poem
I should like to have seen that dog
The principal productions of these towns
appear to be soldiers, sailors, Jews, chalk, shrimps, officers, and dockyard men. The commodities chiefly exposed for sale in the public streets are marine stores, hard-bake, apples, flat-fish, and oysters. The streets present a lively and animated appearance, occasioned chiefly by the conviviality of the military. It is truly delightful to a philanthropic mind to see these gallant men staggering along under the influence of an overflow both of animal and ardent spirits; more especially when we remember that the following them about, and jesting with them, affords a cheap and innocent amusement for the boy population. Nothing
The consumption of tobacco in these towns
must be very great, and the smell which pervades the streets must be exceedingly delicious to those who are extremely fond of smoking. A superficial traveller might object to the dirt, which is their leading characteristic; but to those who view it as an indication of traffic and commercial prosperity, it is truly gratifying
What's that
Soles, Sir
Soles -- ah!-- capital fish -- all come from London-stage- coach proprietors get up political dinners -- carriage of soles -- dozens of baskets -- cunning fellows. Glass of wine, Sir
With pleasure
Devil of a mess on the staircase, waiter
Forms going up -- carpenters coming down -- lamps, glasses, harps. What's going forward
Ball, Sir
Assembly, eh
No, Sir, not assembly, Sir. Ball for the benefit of a charity, Sir
Many fine women in this town, do you know, Sir
Splendid -- capital. Kent, sir -- everybody knows Kent -- apples, cherries, hops, and women. Glass of wine, Sir
With great pleasure
I should very much like to go
very much
Tickets at the bar, Sir
half-a-guinea each, Sir
Beg your pardon, sir
bottle stands -- pass it round -- way of the sun -- through the button-hole -- no heeltaps
They're beginning upstairs
hear the company -- fiddles tuning -- now the harp -- there they go
How I should like to go
So should I
confounded luggage,-- heavy smacks -- nothing to go in -- odd, ain't it
I should be very happy to lend you a change of apparel for the purpose
but you are rather slim, and I am
Rather fat -- grown-up Bacchus -- cut the leaves -- dismounted from the tub, and adopted kersey, eh?-- not double distilled, but double milled -- ha! ha! pass the wine
I was about to observe, Sir
that though my apparel would be too large, a suit of my friend Mr. Winkle's would, perhaps, fit you better
Just the thing
Fill your glass, and pass the wine
Winkle's bedroom is inside mine
I couldn't make him understand what I wanted, if I woke him now, but I know he has a dress-suit in a carpet bag; and supposing you wore it to the ball, and took it off when we returned, I could replace it without troubling him at all about the matter
Capital
famous plan -- damned odd situation -- fourteen coats in the packing-cases, and obliged to wear another man's -- very good notion, that -- very
We must purchase our tickets
Not worth while splitting a guinea
toss who shall pay for both -- I call; you spin -- first time -- woman -- woman -- bewitching woman
It's a new coat
the first that's been made with our club button
P. C
P. C."' said the stranger
Rather short in the waist, ain't it
Like a general postman's coat -- queer coats those -- made by contract -- no measuring -- mysterious dispensations of Providence -- all the short men get long coats -- all the long men short ones
What names, sir
No names at all
names won't do -- not known -- very good names in their way, but not great ones -- capital names for a small party, but won't make an impression in public assemblies -- incog. the thing -- gentlemen from London -- distinguished foreigners -- anything
Charming women
Wait a minute
fun presently -- nobs not come yet -- queer place -- dockyard people of upper rank don't know dockyard people of lower rank -- dockyard people of lower rank don't know small gentry -- small gentry don't know tradespeople -- commissioner don't know anybody
Who's that little boy with the light hair and pink eyes, in a fancy dress
Hush, pray -- pink eyes -- fancy dress -- little boy -- nonsense -- ensign 97th -- Honourable Wilmot Snipe -- great family -- Snipes -- very
Sir Thomas Clubber, Lady Clubber, and the Misses Clubber
Commissioner -- head of the yard -- great man -- remarkably great man
Mr. Smithie, Mrs. Smithie, and the Misses Smithie
What's Mr. Smithie
Something in the yard
Colonel Bulder, Mrs. Colonel Bulder, and Miss Bulder
Head of the garrison
Monarchs of all they surveyed
Lots of money -- old girl -- pompous doctor -- not a bad idea -- good fun
I'll dance with the widow
Who is she
Don't know -- never saw her in all my life -- cut out the doctor -- here goes
Sir
my name is Slammer, Doctor Slammer, sir -- 97th Regiment -- Chatham Barracks -- my card, Sir, my card
Ah
Slammer -- much obliged -- polite attention -- not ill now, Slammer -- but when I am -- knock you up
You -- you're a shuffler, sir
a poltroon -- a coward -- a liar -- a -- a -- will nothing induce you to give me your card, sir
Oh! I see
negus too strong here -- liberal landlord -- very foolish -- very -- lemonade much better -- hot rooms -- elderly gentlemen -- suffer for it in the morning -- cruel -- cruel
You are stopping in this house, Sir
you are intoxicated now, Sir; you shall hear from me in the morning, sir. I shall find you out, sir; I shall find you out
Rather you found me out than found me at home
Who's there
Boots, sir
What do you want
Please, sir, can you tell me which gentleman of your party wears a bright blue dress-coat, with a gilt button with "P. C." on it
It's been given out to brush
and the man has forgotten whom it belongs to
Mr. Winkle
next room but two, on the right hand
Thank'ee, sir
What's the matter
Can I speak to Mr. Winkle, sir
Winkle -- Winkle
Hollo
You're wanted -- some one at the door
Wanted
wanted! at this distance from town -- who on earth can want me
Gentleman in the coffee-room, sir
gentleman says he'll not detain you a moment, Sir, but he can take no denial
Very odd
I'll be down directly
Mr. Winkle, I presume
My name is Winkle, sir
You will not be surprised, sir, when I inform you that I have called here this morning on behalf of my friend, Doctor Slammer, of the 97th
Doctor Slammer
which no one gentleman would pursue towards another
My friend, Doctor Slammer, requested me to add, that he was firmly persuaded you were intoxicated during a portion of the evening, and possibly unconscious of the extent of the insult you were guilty of. He commissioned me to say, that should this be pleaded as an excuse for your behaviour, he will consent to accept a written apology, to be penned by you, from my dictation
A written apology
Of course you know the alternative
Were you intrusted with this message to me by name
I was not present myself
and in consequence of your firm refusal to give your card to Doctor Slammer, I was desired by that gentleman to identify the wearer of a very uncommon coat -- a bright blue dress-coat, with a gilt button displaying a bust, and the letters "P. C
From the inquiries I made at the bar, just now, I was convinced that the owner of the coat in question arrived here, with three gentlemen, yesterday afternoon. I immediately sent up to the gentleman who was described as appearing the head of the party, and he at once referred me to you
Will you allow me to detain you one moment
Certainly
It must be so
I took too much wine after dinner, and have a very vague recollection of walking about the streets, and smoking a cigar afterwards. The fact is, I was very drunk;-- I must have changed my coat -- gone somewhere -- and insulted somebody -- I have no doubt of it; and this message is the terrible consequence
Will you refer me to a friend, to arrange the time and place of meeting
Quite unnecessary
name them to me, and I can procure the attendance of a friend afterwards
Shall we say -- sunset this evening
Very good
You know Fort Pitt
Yes; I saw it yesterday
If you will take the trouble to turn into the field which borders the trench, take the foot-path to the left when you arrive at an angle of the fortification, and keep straight on, till you see me, I will precede you to a secluded place, where the affair can be conducted without fear of interruption
Fear of interruption
Nothing more to arrange, I think
I am not aware of anything more
Good-morning
Good-morning
Snodgrass
Snodgrass, my dear fellow, can I rely upon your secrecy
You can
Hear me swear
No, no
don't swear, don't swear; it's quite unnecessary
I want your assistance, my dear fellow, in an affair of honour
You shall have it
With a doctor -- Doctor Slammer, of the 97th
an affair with an officer, seconded by another officer, at sunset this evening, in a lonely field beyond Fort Pitt
I will attend you
The consequences may be dreadful
I hope not
The doctor, I believe, is a very good shot
Most of these military men are
but so are you, ain't you
Snodgrass
if I fall, you will find in a packet which I shall place in your hands a note for my -- for my father
If I fall
or if the doctor falls, you, my dear friend, will be tried as an accessory before the fact. Shall I involve my friend in transportation -- possibly for life
In the cause of friendship
I would brave all dangers
Snodgrass
do not let me be balked in this matter -- do not give information to the local authorities -- do not obtain the assistance of several peace officers, to take either me or Doctor Slammer, of the 97th Regiment, at present quartered in Chatham Barracks, into custody, and thus prevent this duel!-- I say, do not
Not for worlds
Have you got everything
Everything
plenty of ammunition, in case the shots don't take effect. There's a quarter of a pound of powder in the case, and I have got two newspapers in my pocket for the loadings
We are in excellent time
There's the officer
Where
There -- the gentleman in the blue cloak
The other party, and a surgeon, I suppose
take a drop of brandy
My friend, Sir, Mr. Snodgrass
We have nothing further to say, Sir, I think
an apology has been resolutely declined
Nothing, Sir
Will you step forward
Certainly
You will find these better than your own
You saw me load them. Do you object to use them
Certainly not
We may place our men, then, I think
I think we may
It's all ready
Give me your cloak
You have got the packet, my dear fellow
All right
Be steady, and wing him
Go in, and win
Stop, stop
What's all this
that's not the man
Not the man
Not the man
Not the man
Certainly not
That's not the person who insulted me last night
Very extraordinary
Very
The only question is, whether the gentleman, being on the ground, must not be considered, as a matter of form, to be the individual who insulted our friend, Doctor Slammer, yesterday evening, whether he is really that individual or not
I am not the person. I know it
Then, that
is an affront to Doctor Slammer, and a sufficient reason for proceeding immediately
Pray be quiet, Payne
Why did you not communicate this fact to me this morning, Sir
To be sure -- to be sure
I entreat you to be quiet, Payne
May I repeat my question, Sir
Because, Sir
because, Sir, you described an intoxicated and ungentlemanly person as wearing a coat which I have the honour, not only to wear but to have invented -- the proposed uniform, Sir, of the Pickwick Club in London. The honour of that uniform I feel bound to maintain, and I therefore, without inquiry, accepted the challenge which you offered me
My dear Sir
I honour your gallantry. Permit me to say, Sir, that I highly admire your conduct, and extremely regret having caused you the inconvenience of this meeting, to no purpose
I beg you won't mention it, Sir
I shall feel proud of your acquaintance, Sir
It will afford me the greatest pleasure to know you, sir
I think we may adjourn
Certainly
Unless
unless Mr. Winkle feels himself aggrieved by the challenge; in which case, I submit, he has a right to satisfaction
Or possibly
the gentleman's second may feel himself affronted with some observations which fell from me at an early period of this meeting; if so, I shall be happy to give him satisfaction immediately
Do you remain long here
I think we shall leave here the day after to-morrow
I trust I shall have the pleasure of seeing you and your friend at my rooms, and of spending a pleasant evening with you, after this awkward mistake
are you disengaged this evening
We have some friends here
and I should not like to leave them to-night. Perhaps you and your friend will join us at the Bull
With great pleasure
Oh dear, no
I shall be most happy to introduce you to my friends, Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman
It will give me great pleasure, I am sure
You will be sure to come
Oh, certainly
A friend of our friend's here. We discovered this morning that our friend was connected with the theatre in this place, though he is not desirous to have it generally known, and this gentleman is a member of the same profession. He was about to favour us with a little anecdote connected with it, when you entered
Lots of anecdote
Rum fellow -- does the heavy business -- no actor -- strange man -- all sorts of miseries -- Dismal Jemmy, we call him on the circuit
Now sir
will you oblige us by proceeding with what you were going to relate
Are you the poet
I -- I do a little in that way
Ah! poetry makes life what light and music do the stage -- strip the one of the false embellishments, and the other of its illusions, and what is there real in either to live or care for
Very true, Sir
To be before the footlights
is like sitting at a grand court show, and admiring the silken dresses of the gaudy throng; to be behind them is to be the people who make that finery, uncared for and unknown, and left to sink or swim, to starve or live, as fortune wills it
Certainly
Go on, Jemmy
like black-eyed Susan -- all in the Downs -- no croaking -- speak out -- look lively
Will you make another glass before you begin, Sir
The Stroller's Tale
There is nothing of the marvellous in what I am going to relate
The man of whom I speak was a low pantomime actor; and, like many people of his class, an habitual drunkard. in his better days, before he had become enfeebled by dissipation and emaciated by disease, he had been in the receipt of a good salary, which, if he had been careful and prudent, he might have continued to receive for some years -- not many; because these men either die early, or by unnaturally taxing their bodily energies, lose, prematurely, those physical powers on which alone they can depend for subsistence. His besetting sin gained so fast upon him, however, that it was found impossible to employ him in the situations in which he really was useful to the theatre. The public-house had a fascination for him which he could not resist. Neglected disease and hopeless poverty were as certain to be his portion as death itself, if he persevered in the same course; yet he did persevere, and the result may be guessed. He could obtain no engagement, and he wanted bread. 'Everybody who is at all acquainted with theatrical matters knows what a host of shabby, poverty-stricken men hang about the stage of a large establishment -- not regularly engaged actors, but ballet people, procession men, tumblers, and so forth, who are taken on during the run of a pantomime, or an Easter piece, and are then discharged, until the production of some heavy spectacle occasions a new demand for their services. To this mode of life the man was compelled to resort; and taking the chair every night, at some low theatrical house, at once put him in possession of a few more shillings weekly, and enabled him to gratify his old propensity. Even this resource shortly failed him; his irregularities were too great to admit of his earning the wretched pittance he might thus have procured, and he was actually reduced to a state bordering on starvation, only procuring a trifle occasionally by borrowing it of some old companion, or by obtaining an appearance at one or other of the commonest of the minor theatres; and when he did earn anything it was spent in the old way. 'About this time, and when he had been existing for upwards of a year no one knew how, I had a short engagement at one of the theatres on the Surrey side of the water, and here I saw this man, whom I had lost sight of for some time; for I had been travelling in the provinces, and he had been skulking in the lanes and alleys of London. I was dressed to leave the house, and was crossing the stage on my way out, when he tapped me on the shoulder. Never shall I forget the repulsive sight that met my eye when I turned round. He was dressed for the pantomimes in all the absurdity of a clown's costume. The spectral figures in the Dance of Death, the most frightful shapes that the ablest painter ever portrayed on canvas, never presented an appearance half so ghastly. His bloated body and shrunken legs -- their deformity enhanced a hundredfold by the fantastic dress -- the glassy eyes, contrasting fearfully with the thick white paint with which the face was besmeared; the grotesquely-ornamented head, trembling with paralysis, and the long skinny hands, rubbed with white chalk -- all gave him a hideous and unnatural appearance, of which no description could convey an adequate idea, and which, to this day, I shudder to think of. His voice was hollow and tremulous as he took me aside, and in broken words recounted a long catalogue of sickness and privations, terminating as usual with an urgent request for the loan of a trifling sum of money. I put a few shillings in his hand, and as I turned away I heard the roar of laughter which followed his first tumble on the stage. 'A few nights afterwards, a boy put a dirty scrap of paper in my hand, on which were scrawled a few words in pencil, intimating that the man was dangerously ill, and begging me, after the performance, to see him at his lodgings in some street -- I forget the name of it now -- at no great distance from the theatre. I promised to comply, as soon as I could get away; and after the curtain fell, sallied forth on my melancholy errand. 

'It was late, for I had been playing in the last piece; and, as it was a benefit night, the performances had been protracted to an unusual length. It was a dark, cold night, with a chill, damp wind, which blew the rain heavily against the windows and house- fronts. Pools of water had collected in the narrow and little- frequented streets, and as many of the thinly-scattered oil-lamps had been blown out by the violence of the wind, the walk was not only a comfortless, but most uncertain one. I had fortunately taken the right course, however, and succeeded, after a little difficulty, in finding the house to which I had been directed -- a coal-shed, with one Storey above it, in the back room of which lay the object of my search. 

'A wretched-looking woman, the man's wife, met me on the stairs, and, telling me that he had just fallen into a kind of doze, led me softly in, and placed a chair for me at the bedside. The sick man was lying with his face turned towards the wall; and as he took no heed of my presence, I had leisure to observe the place in which I found myself. 

'He was lying on an old bedstead, which turned up during the day. The tattered remains of a checked curtain were drawn round the bed's head, to exclude the wind, which, however, made its way into the comfortless room through the numerous chinks in the door, and blew it to and fro every instant. There was a low cinder fire in a rusty, unfixed grate; and an old three-cornered stained table, with some medicine bottles, a broken glass, and a few other domestic articles, was drawn out before it. A little child was sleeping on a temporary bed which had been made for it on the floor, and the woman sat on a chair by its side. There were a couple of shelves, with a few plates and cups and saucers; and a pair of stage shoes and a couple of foils hung beneath them. With the exception of little heaps of rags and bundles which had been carelessly thrown into the corners of the room, these were the only things in the apartment. 

'I had had time to note these little particulars, and to mark the heavy breathing and feverish startings of the sick man, before he was aware of my presence. In the restless attempts to procure some easy resting-place for his head, he tossed his hand out of the bed, and it fell on mine. He started up, and stared eagerly in my face. 

' "Mr. Hutley, John," said his wife; "Mr. Hutley, that you sent for to-night, you know." 

' "Ah!" said the invalid, passing his hand across his forehead; "Hutley -- Hutley -- let me see." He seemed endeavouring to collect his thoughts for a few seconds, and then grasping me tightly by the wrist said, "Don't leave me -- don't leave me, old fellow. She'll murder me; I know she will." 

' "Has he been long so?" said I, addressing his weeping wife. 

' "Since yesterday night," she replied. "John, John, don't you know me?" ' "Don't let her come near me," said the man, with a shudder, as she stooped over him. "Drive her away; I can't bear her near me." He stared wildly at her, with a look of deadly apprehension, and then whispered in my ear, "I beat her, Jem; I beat her yesterday, and many times before. I have starved her and the boy too; and now I am weak and helpless, Jem, she'll murder me for it; I know she will. If you'd seen her cry, as I have, you'd know it too. Keep her off." He relaxed his grasp, and sank back exhausted on the pillow. 'I knew but too well what all this meant. If I could have entertained any doubt of it, for an instant, one glance at the woman's pale face and wasted form would have sufficiently explained the real state of the case. "You had better stand aside," said I to the poor creature. "You can do him no good. Perhaps he will be calmer, if he does not see you." She retired out of the man's sight. He opened his eyes after a few seconds, and looked anxiously round. 

' "Is she gone?" he eagerly inquired. 

' "Yes -- yes," said I; "she shall not hurt you." 

' "I'll tell you what, Jem," said the man, in a low voice, "she does hurt me. There's something in her eyes wakes such a dreadful fear in my heart, that it drives me mad. All last night, her large, staring eyes and pale face were close to mine; wherever I turned, they turned; and whenever I started up from my sleep, she was at the bedside looking at me." He drew me closer to him, as he said in a deep alarmed whisper, "Jem, she must be an evil spirit -- a devil! Hush! I know she is. If she had been a woman she would have died long ago. No woman could have borne what she has." 

'I sickened at the thought of the long course of cruelty and neglect which must have occurred to produce such an impression on such a man. I could say nothing in reply; for who could offer hope, or consolation, to the abject being before me? 

'I sat there for upwards of two hours, during which time he tossed about, murmuring exclamations of pain or impatience, restlessly throwing his arms here and there, and turning constantly from side to side. At length he fell into that state of partial unconsciousness, in which the mind wanders uneasily from scene to scene, and from place to place, without the control of reason, but still without being able to divest itself of an indescribable sense of present suffering. Finding from his incoherent wanderings that this was the case, and knowing that in all probability the fever would not grow immediately worse, I left him, promising his miserable wife that I would repeat my visit next evening, and, if necessary, sit up with the patient during the night. 

'I kept my promise. The last four-and-twenty hours had produced a frightful alteration. The eyes, though deeply sunk and heavy, shone with a lustre frightful to behold. The lips were parched, and cracked in many places; the hard, dry skin glowed with a burning heat; and there was an almost unearthly air of wild anxiety in the man's face, indicating even more strongly the ravages of the disease. The fever was at its height. 

'I took the seat I had occupied the night before, and there I sat for hours, listening to sounds which must strike deep to the heart of the most callous among human beings -- the awful ravings of a dying man. From what I had heard of the medical attendant's opinion, I knew there was no hope for him: I was sitting by his death-bed. I saw the wasted limbs -- which a few hours before had been distorted for the amusement of a boisterous gallery, writhing under the tortures of a burning fever -- I heard the clown's shrill laugh, blending with the low murmurings of the dying man. 

'It is a touching thing to hear the mind reverting to the ordinary occupations and pursuits of health, when the body lies before you weak and helpless; but when those occupations are of a character the most strongly opposed to anything we associate with grave and solemn ideas, the impression produced is infinitely more powerful. The theatre and the public-house were the chief themes of the wretched man's wanderings. It was evening, he fancied; he had a part to play that night; it was late, and he must leave home instantly. Why did they hold him, and prevent his going?-- he should lose the money -- he must go. No! they would not let him. He hid his face in his burning hands, and feebly bemoaned his own weakness, and the cruelty of his persecutors. A short pause, and he shouted out a few doggerel rhymes -- the last he had ever learned. He rose in bed, drew up his withered limbs, and rolled about in uncouth positions; he was acting -- he was at the theatre. A minute's silence, and he murmured the burden of some roaring song. He had reached the old house at last -- how hot the room was. He had been ill, very ill, but he was well now, and happy. Fill up his glass. Who was that, that dashed it from his lips? It was the same persecutor that had followed him before. He fell back upon his pillow and moaned aloud. A short period of oblivion, and he was wandering through a tedious maze of low-arched rooms -- so low, sometimes, that he must creep upon his hands and knees to make his way along; it was close and dark, and every way he turned, some obstacle impeded his progress. There were insects, too, hideous crawling things, with eyes that stared upon him, and filled the very air around, glistening horribly amidst the thick darkness of the place. The walls and ceiling were alive with reptiles -- the vault expanded to an enormous size -- frightful figures flitted to and fro -- and the faces of men he knew, rendered hideous by gibing and mouthing, peered out from among them; they were searing him with heated irons, and binding his head with cords till the blood started; and he struggled madly for life. 

'At the close of one of these paroxysms, when I had with great difficulty held him down in his bed, he sank into what appeared to be a slumber. Overpowered with watching and exertion, I had closed my eyes for a few minutes, when I felt a violent clutch on my shoulder. I awoke instantly. He had raised himself up, so as to seat himself in bed -- a dreadful change had come over his face, but consciousness had returned, for he evidently knew me. The child, who had been long since disturbed by his ravings, rose from its little bed, and ran towards its father, screaming with fright -- the mother hastily caught it in her arms, lest he should injure it in the violence of his insanity; but, terrified by the alteration of his features, stood transfixed by the bedside. He grasped my shoulder convulsively, and, striking his breast with the other hand, made a desperate attempt to articulate. It was unavailing; he extended his arm towards them, and made another violent effort. There was a rattling noise in the throat -- a glare of the eye -- a short stifled groan -- and he fell back -- dead
Some gentlemen, Sir
Oh
some friends of mine -- show them in. Very pleasant fellows
officers of the 97th, whose acquaintance I made rather oddly this morning. You will like them very much
Lieutenant Tappleton
Lieutenant Tappleton, Mr. Pickwick -- Doctor Payne, Mr. Pickwick -- Mr. Snodgrass you have seen before, my friend Mr. Tupman, Doctor Payne -- Doctor Slammer, Mr. Pickwick -- Mr. Tupman, Doctor Slam
I have met THIS gentleman before
Indeed
And -- and that person, too, if I am not mistaken
I think I gave that person a very pressing invitation last night, which he thought proper to decline
You don't say so
I do, indeed
You are bound to kick him on the spot
Do be quiet, Payne
Will you allow me to ask you, sir
will you allow me to ask you, Sir, whether that person belongs to your party
No, Sir
he is a guest of ours
He is a member of your club, or I am mistaken
Certainly not
And never wears your club-button
No -- never
Sir
you were at the ball here last night
That person was your companion
Now, sir
I ask you once again, in the presence of these gentlemen, whether you choose to give me your card, and to receive the treatment of a gentleman; or whether you impose upon me the necessity of personally chastising you on the spot
Stay, sir
I really cannot allow this matter to go any further without some explanation. Tupman, recount the circumstances
Haven't I seen you at the theatre, Sir
Certainly
He is a strolling actor
He acts in the piece that the officers of the 52nd get up at the Rochester Theatre to-morrow night. You cannot proceed in this affair, Slammer -- impossible
Quite
Sorry to have placed you in this disagreeable situation
allow me to suggest, that the best way of avoiding a recurrence of such scenes in future will be to be more select in the choice of your companions. Good-evening, Sir
And allow me to say, Sir
that if I had been Tappleton, or if I had been Slammer, I would have pulled your nose, Sir, and the nose of every man in this company. I would, sir -- every man. Payne is my name, sir -- Doctor Payne of the43 rd. Good-evening, Sir
Restrain him
Winkle, Tupman -- he must not peril his distinguished life in such a cause as this
Let me go
Hold him tight
Leave him alone
brandy- and-water -- jolly old gentleman -- lots of pluck -- swallow this -- ah!-- capital stuff
They are not worth your notice
You are right, sir
they are not. I am ashamed to have been betrayed into this warmth of feeling. Draw your chair up to the table, Sir
Can anything be finer or more delightful
Nothing
It is indeed a noble and a brilliant sight
to see the gallant defenders of their country drawn up in brilliant array before its peaceful citizens; their faces beaming -- not with warlike ferocity, but with civilised gentleness; their eyes flashing -- not with the rude fire of rapine or revenge, but with the soft light of humanity and intelligence
We are in a capital situation now
Capital
What are they doing now
I -- I -- rather think
I rather think they're going to fire
Nonsense
I -- I -- really think they are
Impossible
But -- but -- suppose some of the men should happen to have ball cartridges by mistake
I heard something whistle through the air now -- so sharp; close to my ear
We had better throw ourselves on our faces, hadn't we
No, no -- it's over now
Hoi
Get out of the way
Where are we to go to
Hoi -- hoi -- hoi
Pickwick -- Pickwick
come up here. Make haste
Come along, Sir. Pray, come up
Joe!-- damn that boy, he's gone to sleep again.-- Joe, let down the steps
Room for you all, gentlemen
Two inside, and one out. Joe, make room for one of these gentlemen on the box. Now, Sir, come along
Well, gentlemen
Well, and how are you, sir
Charming, eh? Well, that's right -- that's right. And how are you, sir (to Mr. Winkle)? Well, I am glad to hear you say you are well; very glad I am, to be sure. My daughters, gentlemen -- my gals these are; and that's my sister, Miss Rachael Wardle. She's a Miss, she is; and yet she ain't a Miss -- eh, Sir, eh
Lor, brother
True, true
no one can deny it. Gentlemen, I beg your pardon; this is my friend Mr. Trundle. And now you all know each other, let's be comfortable and happy, and see what's going forward; that's what I say
Joe, Joe
Damn that boy, he's gone to sleep again. Be good enough to pinch him, sir -- in the leg, if you please; nothing else wakes him -- thank you. Undo the hamper, Joe
Now we must sit close
Now, Joe, knives and forks
Plates, Joe, plates
Now, Joe, the fowls. Damn that boy; he's gone to sleep again. Joe! Joe
Come, hand in the eatables
Now make haste
That's right -- look sharp. Now the tongue -- now the pigeon pie. Take care of that veal and ham -- mind the lobsters -- take the salad out of the cloth -- give me the dressing
Now ain't this capital
Capital
Glass of wine
With the greatest pleasure
You'd better have a bottle to yourself up there, hadn't you
You're very good
Joe
Yes, Sir
Bottle of wine to the gentleman on the box. Glad to see you, Sir
Thank'ee
Will you permit me to have the pleasure, Sir
With great pleasure
How dear Emily is flirting with the strange gentleman
Oh! I don't know
all very natural, I dare say -- nothing unusual. Mr. Pickwick, some wine, Sir
Emily, my dear
don't talk so loud, love
Lor, aunt
Aunt and the little old gentleman want to have it all to themselves, I think
Young girls have such spirits
Oh, they have
It's quite delightful
Hem
Will you permit me
Will you permit me
Oh, sir
Do you think my dear nieces pretty
I should, if their aunt wasn't here
Oh, you naughty man -- but really, if their complexions were a little better, don't you think they would be nice-looking girls -- by candlelight
Yes; I think they would
Oh, you quiz -- I know what you were going to say
What
You were going to say that Isabel stoops -- I know you were -- you men are such observers. Well, so she does; it can't be denied; and, certainly, if there is one thing more than another that makes a girl look ugly it is stooping. I often tell her that when she gets a little older she'll be quite frightful. Well, you are a quiz
What a sarcastic smile
I declare I'm quite afraid of you
Afraid of me
Oh, you can't disguise anything from me -- I know what that smile means very well
What
You mean
you mean, that you don't think Isabella's stooping is as bad as Emily's boldness. Well, she is bold! You cannot think how wretched it makes me sometimes -- I'm sure I cry about it for hours together -- my dear brother is SO good, and so unsuspicious, that he never sees it; if he did, I'm quite certain it would break his heart. I wish I could think it was only manner -- I hope it may be
I'm sure aunt's talking about us
I'm quite certain of it -- she looks so malicious
Is she
Hem! aunt, dear
Yes, my dear love
I'm SO afraid you'll catch cold, aunt -- have a silk handkerchief to tie round your dear old head -- you really should take care of yourself -- consider your age
Damn that boy
he's gone to sleep again
Very extraordinary boy, that
does he always sleep in this way
Sleep
he's always asleep. Goes on errands fast asleep, and snores as he waits at table
How very odd
Ah! odd indeed
I'm proud of that boy -- wouldn't part with him on any account -- he's a natural curiosity! Here, Joe -- Joe -- take these things away, and open another bottle -- d'ye hear
Now, mind
Most certainly
You have got the address
Manor Farm, Dingley Dell
That's it
I don't let you off, mind, under a week; and undertake that you shall see everything worth seeing. If you've come down for a country life, come to me, and I'll give you plenty of it. Joe -- damn that boy, he's gone to sleep again -- Joe, help Tom put in the horses
Contemplating the scene
I was
And congratulating yourself on being up so soon
Ah! people need to rise early, to see the sun in all his splendour, for his brightness seldom lasts the day through. The morning of day and the morning of life are but too much alike
You speak truly, sir
How common the saying
The morning's too fine to last." How well might it be applied to our everyday existence. God! what would I forfeit to have the days of my childhood restored, or to be able to forget them for ever
You have seen much trouble, sir
I have
I have. More than those who see me now would believe possible
Did it ever strike you, on such a morning as this, that drowning would be happiness and peace
God bless me, no
I have thought so, often
The calm, cool water seems to me to murmur an invitation to repose and rest. A bound, a splash, a brief struggle; there is an eddy for an instant, it gradually subsides into a gentle ripple; the waters have closed above your head, and the world has closed upon your miseries and misfortunes for ever
There -- enough of that. I wish to see you on another subject. You invited me to read that paper, the night before last, and listened attentively while I did so
I did
and I certainly thought
I asked for no opinion
and I want none. You are travelling for amusement and instruction. Suppose I forward you a curious manuscript -- observe, not curious because wild or improbable, but curious as a leaf from the romance of real life -- would you communicate it to the club, of which you have spoken so frequently
Certainly
if you wished it; and it would be entered on their transactions
You shall have it
Your address
Now, about Manor Farm
How shall we go
We had better consult the waiter, perhaps
Dingley Dell, gentlemen -- fifteen miles, gentlemen -- cross road -- post-chaise, sir
Post-chaise won't hold more than two
True, sir -- beg your pardon, sir.-- Very nice four-wheel chaise, sir -- seat for two behind -- one in front for the gentleman that drives -- oh! beg your pardon, sir -- that'll only hold three
What's to be done
Perhaps one of the gentlemen would like to ride, sir
very good saddle-horses, sir -- any of Mr. Wardle's men coming to Rochester, bring 'em back, Sir
The very thing
Winkle, will you go on horseback
Certainly. I should enjoy it of all things
Let them be at the door by eleven
Very well, sir
Bless my soul
Bless my soul! who's to drive? I never thought of that
Oh! you, of course
Of course
I
Not the slightest fear, Sir
Warrant him quiet, Sir; a hinfant in arms might drive him
He don't shy, does he
Shy, sir?-he wouldn't shy if he was to meet a vagin-load of monkeys with their tails burned off
Now, shiny Villiam
Shiny Villiam
Wo-o
Wo-o
jist kitch hold on him, Villiam
T'other side, sir, if you please
All right
All right
Let 'em go
Hold him in, sir
What makes him go sideways
I can't imagine
What CAN he mean by this
I don't know
it looks very like shying, don't it
Woo
I have dropped my whip
Winkle
pick up the whip, there's a good fellow
Poor fellow
poor fellow -- good old horse
What am I to do
What am I to do? I can't get on him
You had better lead him till we come to a turnpike
But he won't come
Do come and hold him
Bless my soul
there's the other horse running away
Hollo there
Hollo there
Hollo
How far is it to Dingley Dell
Better er seven mile
Is it a good road
No, 'tain't
We want to put this horse up here
I suppose we can, can't we
Want to put that ere horse up, do ee
Of course
missus
Can we put this horse up here, my good woman
No
I'm afeerd on it
Afraid
what's the woman afraid of
It got us in trouble last time
un
Most extraordinary thing I have ever met with in my life
I -- I -- really believe
that they think we have come by this horse in some dishonest manner
What
Hollo, you fellow
do you think we stole the horse
I'm sure ye did
It's like a dream
a hideous dream. The idea of a man's walking about all day with a dreadful horse that he can't get rid of
Why, where have you been
I've been waiting for you all day. Well, you DO look tired. What! Scratches! Not hurt, I hope -- eh? Well, I AM glad to hear that -- very. So you've been spilt, eh? Never mind. Common accident in these parts. Joe -- he's asleep again!-- Joe, take that horse from the gentlemen, and lead it into the stable
We'll have you put to rights here
and then I'll introduce you to the people in the parlour. Emma, bring out the cherry brandy; now, Jane, a needle and thread here; towels and water, Mary. Come, girls, bustle about
Bustle
Loaded
Ready
Quite
Come along, then
Welcome
welcome, gentlemen, to Manor Farm
Mr. Pickwick, mother
Ah
I can't hear you
Mr. Pickwick, grandma
Ah
Well, it don't much matter. He don't care for an old 'ooman like me, I dare say
I assure you, ma'am
I assure you, ma'am, that nothing delights me more than to see a lady of your time of life heading so fine a family, and looking so young and well
Ah
it's all very fine, I dare say; but I can't hear him
Grandma's rather put out now
but she'll talk to you presently
Delightful situation this
Delightful
Well, I think it is
There ain't a better spot o' ground in all Kent, sir
there ain't indeed, sir -- I'm sure there ain't, Sir
There ain't a better spot o' ground in all Kent
observed the fat man solemnly. 'Mullins's Meadows
Ah, Mullins's Meadows
Reg'lar good land that
And so it is, sure-ly
Everybody knows that
What are they talking about
About the land, grandma
What about the land?-- Nothing the matter, is there
No, no. Mr. Miller was saying our land was better than Mullins's Meadows
How should he know anything about it
Miller's a conceited coxcomb, and you may tell him I said so
Come, come
what say you to a rubber, Mr. Pickwick
I should like it of all things
but pray don't make up one on my account
Oh, I assure you, mother's very fond of a rubber
ain't you, mother
Joe, Joe
Joe -- damn that -- oh, here he is; put out the card -- tables
whist
There
that could not have been played better, I flatter myself; impossible to have made another trick
Miller ought to have trumped the diamond, oughtn't he, Sir
Ought I, though
You ought, Sir
Very sorry
Much use that
Two by honours -- makes us eight
Can you one
I can
Double, single, and the rub
Never was such luck
Never was such cards
Another double
A double, sir
Quite aware of the fact, Sir
went partners
matrimony
Now this
this is just what I like -- the happiest moments of my life have been passed at this old fireside; and I am so attached to it, that I keep up a blazing fire here every evening, until it actually grows too hot to bear it. Why, my poor old mother, here, used to sit before this fireplace upon that little stool when she was a girl; didn't you, mother
You must excuse my talking about this old place, Mr. Pickwick
for I love it dearly, and know no other -- the old houses and fields seem like living friends to me; and so does our little church with the ivy, about which, by the bye, our excellent friend there made a song when he first came amongst us. Mr. Snodgrass, have you anything in your glass
Plenty, thank you
I beg your pardon, but you were talking about the song of the Ivy
You must ask our friend opposite about that
May I say that I should like to hear you repeat it, sir
Why, really
it's a very slight affair; and the only excuse I have for having ever perpetrated it is, that I was a young man at the time. Such as it is, however, you shall hear it, if you wish
I call them
Excuse me, sir, for making the remark on so short an acquaintance; but a gentleman like yourself cannot fail, I should think, to have observed many scenes and incidents worth recording, in the course of your experience as a minister of the Gospel
I have witnessed some certainly
but the incidents and characters have been of a homely and ordinary nature, my sphere of action being so very limited
You did make some notes, I think, about John Edmunds, did you not
I beg your pardon, sir, but pray, if I may venture to inquire, who was John Edmunds
The very thing I was about to ask
You are fairly in for it
You must satisfy the curiosity of these gentlemen, sooner or later; so you had better take advantage of this favourable opportunity, and do so at once
When I first settled in this village
In that corner of the churchyard
in that corner of the churchyard of which I have before spoken, there lies buried a man who was in my employment for three years after this event, and who was truly contrite, penitent, and humbled, if ever man was. No one save myself knew in that man's lifetime who he was, or whence he came -- it was John Edmunds, the returned convict
Pleasant, pleasant country
Who could live to gaze from day to day on bricks and slates who had once felt the influence of a scene like this? Who could continue to exist where there are no cows but the cows on the chimney-pots; nothing redolent of Pan but pan-tiles; no crop but stone crop? Who could bear to drag out a life in such a spot? Who, I ask, could endure it
Hollo
How are you
Hollo
what's going forward
Why, your friend and I
are going out rook- shooting before breakfast. He's a very good shot, ain't he
I've heard him say he's a capital one
but I never saw him aim at anything
Well
I wish he'd come. Joe -- Joe
Go up, and call the gentleman, and tell him he'll find me and Mr. Pickwick in the rookery. Show the gentleman the way there; d'ye hear
This is the place
Here they are
Come along
a keen hand like you ought to have been up long ago, even to such poor work as this
What are these lads for
Only to start the game
To what
Why, in plain English, to frighten the rooks
Oh, is that all
You are satisfied
Quite
Very well. Shall I begin
If you please
Stand aside, then. Now for it
Take him up, Joe
Now, Mr. Winkle
Fire away
Hollo
Won't it go
Missed fire
Odd
Never knew one of them miss fire before. Why, I don't see anything of the cap
Bless my soul
I declare I forgot the cap
Wretch
Why, what is the matter with the little old gentleman
Don't be frightened
Don't be frightened
What's the matter
Mr. Tupman has met with a little accident; that's all
Throw some cold water over her
No, no
I am better now. Bella, Emily -- a surgeon! Is he wounded?-- Is he dead?-- Is he -- Ha, ha, ha
Calm yourself
Dear, dear madam, calm yourself
It is his voice
Do not agitate yourself, I entreat you, dearest madam
I am very little hurt, I assure you
Then you are not dead
Oh, say you are not dead
Don't be a fool, Rachael
What the devil's the use of his saying he isn't dead
No, no, I am not
I require no assistance but yours. Let me lean on your arm
Oh, Miss Rachael
Are you faint
No
It is nothing. I shall be better presently
He sleeps
Dear -- dear -- Mr. Tupman
Oh, say those words again
Surely you did not hear them
Oh, yes, I did
repeat them. If you would have me recover, repeat them
Hush
My brother
Are you a cricketer
No
Are you, sir
I was once upon a time
but I have given it up now. I subscribe to the club here, but I don't play
The grand match is played to-day, I believe
It is
Of course you would like to see it
I, sir
am delighted to view any sports which may be safely indulged in, and in which the impotent effects of unskilful people do not endanger human life
Shall we be justified in leaving our wounded friend to the care of the ladies
You cannot leave me in better hands
Quite impossible
How-are-you's
You had better step into the marquee, I think, Sir
You'll find it much pleasanter, Sir
You're very good
This way
they notch in here -- it's the best place in the whole field
Capital game -- smart sport -- fine exercise -- very
This way -- this way -- capital fun -- lots of beer -- hogsheads; rounds of beef -- bullocks; mustard -- cart-loads; glorious day -- down with you -- make yourself at home -- glad to see you -- very
Mr. Wardle -- a friend of mine
Friend of yours!-- My dear sir, how are you?-- Friend of my friend's -- give me your hand, sir
Well; and how came you here
Come
stopping at Crown -- Crown at Muggleton -- met a party -- flannel jackets -- white trousers -- anchovy sandwiches -- devilled kidney -- splendid fellows -- glorious
look out
Play
Run -- run -- another.-- Now, then throw her up -- up with her -- stop there -- another -- no -- yes -- no -- throw her up, throw her up
Ah, ah!-- stupid
Muff
Capital game -- well played -- some strokes admirable
You have played it, sir
Played it! Think I have -- thousands of times -- not here -- West Indies -- exciting thing -- hot work -- very
It must be rather a warm pursuit in such a climate
And what became of what's-his-name, Sir
Blazo
No -- the other gentleman
Quanko Samba
Yes, sir
Poor Quanko -- never recovered it -- bowled on, on my account -- bowled off, on his own -- died, sir
We are about to partake of a plain dinner at the Blue Lion, Sir; we hope you and your friends will join us
Of course
among our friends we include Mr
Jingle
Jingle -- Alfred Jingle, Esq., of No Hall, Nowhere
I shall be very happy, I am sure
So shall I
Devilish good dinner -- cold, but capital -- peeped into the room this morning -- fowls and pies, and all that sort of thing -- pleasant fellows these -- well behaved, too -- very
clear away
Mr. Luffey
Sir
I wish to address a few words to you, Sir, if you will entreat the gentlemen to fill their glasses
Hear, hear
Mr. Staple
Sir
I wish to address what I have to say to you and not to our worthy chairman, because our worthy chairman is in some measure -- I may say in a great degree -- the subject of what I have to say, or I may say to -- to --' 'State
Yes, to state
I thank my honourable friend, if he will allow me to call him so (four hears and one certainly from Mr. Jingle), for the suggestion. Sir, I am a Deller -- a Dingley Deller (cheers). I cannot lay claim to the honour of forming an item in the population of Muggleton; nor, Sir, I will frankly admit, do I covet that honour: and I will tell you why, Sir (hear); to Muggleton I will readily concede all these honours and distinctions to which it can fairly lay claim -- they are too numerous and too well known to require aid or recapitulation from me. But, sir, while we remember that Muggleton has given birth to a Dumkins and a Podder, let us never forget that Dingley Dell can boast a Luffey and a Struggles. (Vociferous cheering.) Let me not be considered as wishing to detract from the merits of the former gentlemen. Sir, I envy them the luxury of their own feelings on this occasion. (Cheers.) Every gentleman who hears me, is probably acquainted with the reply made by an individual, who -- to use an ordinary figure of speech --"hung out" in a tub, to the emperor Alexander:-- "if I were not Diogenes," said he, "I would be Alexander." I can well imagine these gentlemen to say, "If I were not Dumkins I would be Luffey; if I were not Podder I would be Struggles." (Enthusiasm.) But, gentlemen of Muggleton, is it in cricket alone that your fellow-townsmen stand pre-eminent? Have you never heard of Dumkins and determination? Have you never been taught to associate Podder with property? (Great applause.) Have you never, when struggling for your rights, your liberties, and your privileges, been reduced, if only for an instant, to misgiving and despair? And when you have been thus depressed, has not the name of Dumkins laid afresh within your breast the fire which had just gone out; and has not a word from that man lighted it again as brightly as if it had never expired? (Great cheering.) Gentlemen, I beg to surround with a rich halo of enthusiastic cheering the united names of "Dumkins and Podder
We won't go home till morning, We won't go home till morning, We won't go home till morning, Till daylight doth appear
I have forgotten my flowers
Water them now
You will take cold in the evening air
No, no
it will do me good. Let me accompany you
Miss Wardle
Miss Wardle
you are an angel
Mr. Tupman
Nay
I know it but too well
All women are angels, they say
Then what can you be; or to what, without presumption, can I compare you
Where was the woman ever seen who resembled you? Where else could I hope to find so rare a combination of excellence and beauty? Where else could I seek to -- Oh
Men are such deceivers
They are, they are
but not all men. There lives at least one being who can never change -- one being who would be content to devote his whole existence to your happiness -- who lives but in your eyes -- who breathes but in your smiles -- who bears the heavy burden of life itself only for you
Could such an individual be found
But he CAN be found
He IS found. He is here, Miss Wardle
Mr. Tupman, rise
Never
Oh, Rachael
Oh, Rachael! say you love me
Mr. Tupman
I can hardly speak the words; but -- but -- you are not wholly indifferent to me
Mr. Tupman, we are observed!-- we are discovered
What do you want here, Sir
Supper's ready, sir
Have you just come here, sir
Just
He knows nothing of what has happened
Nothing
He must have been fast asleep
I have not the least doubt of it
is anything the matter
Nothing the matter
We -- we're -- all right.-- I say, Wardle, we're all right, ain't we
I should think so
pon -- little visit
Is anything the matter with Mr. Snodgrass, Sir
Nothing the matter, ma'am
Cricket dinner -- glorious party -- capital songs -- old port -- claret -- good -- very good -- wine, ma'am -- wine
It wasn't the wine
It was the salmon
Hadn't they better go to bed, ma'am
Two of the boys will carry the gentlemen upstairs
I won't go to bed
No living boy shall carry me
Hurrah
Hurrah
Let's -- have
What a shocking scene
Dis-gusting
Dreadful -- dreadful
Horrid spectacle -- very
What a nice man
Good-looking, too
Oh, decidedly
was an impudent young fellow
Missus
Missus
Missus
Well, Joe
I'm sure I have been a good mistress to you, Joe. You have invariably been treated very kindly. You have never had too much to do; and you have always had enough to eat
I knows I has
Then what can you want to do now
I wants to make your flesh creep
What do you think I see in this very arbour last night
Bless us! What
The strange gentleman -- him as had his arm hurt -- a-kissin' and huggin
Who, Joe? None of the servants, I hope
Worser than that
Not one of my grandda'aters
Worser than that
Worse than that, Joe
Who was it, Joe? I insist upon knowing
Miss Rachael
What
Speak louder
Miss Rachael
My da'ater
And she suffered him
I see her a-kissin' of him agin
Without my permission
Miserable old 'ooman like me
Miss Wardle
forgive intrusion -- short acquaintance -- no time for ceremony -- all discovered
Sir
Hush
Large boy -- dumpling face -- round eyes -- rascal
I presume you allude to Joseph, Sir
Yes, ma'am -- damn that Joe!-- treacherous dog, Joe -- told the old lady -- old lady furious -- wild -- raving -- arbour -- Tupman -- kissing and hugging -- all that sort of thing -- eh, ma'am -- eh
Mr. Jingle
if you come here, Sir, to insult me
Not at all -- by no means
overheard the tale -- came to warn you of your danger -- tender my services -- prevent the hubbub. Never mind -- think it an insult -- leave the room
What SHALL I do
My brother will be furious
Of course he will
outrageous
Oh, Mr. Jingle, what CAN I say
Say he dreamt it
Pooh, pooh!-- nothing more easy -- blackguard boy -- lovely woman -- fat boy horsewhipped -- you believed -- end of the matter -- all comfortable
You seem unhappy, Mr. Jingle
May I show my gratitude for your kind interference, by inquiring into the cause, with a view, if possible, to its removal
Ha
removal! remove my unhappiness, and your love bestowed upon a man who is insensible to the blessing -- who even now contemplates a design upon the affections of the niece of the creature who -- but no; he is my friend; I will not expose his vices. Miss Wardle -- farewell
Stay, Mr. Jingle
You have made an allusion to Mr. Tupman -- explain it
Never
Never
Mr. Jingle
I entreat -- I implore you, if there is any dreadful mystery connected with Mr. Tupman, reveal it
Can I
can I see -- lovely creature -- sacrificed at the shrine -- heartless avarice
Tupman only wants your money
The wretch
More than that
loves another
Another
Who
Short girl -- black eyes -- niece Emily
It can't be. I won't believe it
Watch 'em
I will
Watch his looks
I will
His whispers
I will
He'll sit next her at table
Let him
He'll flatter her
Let him
He'll pay her every possible attention
Let him
And he'll cut you
Cut ME
HE cut ME; will he
You will convince yourself
I will
You'll show your spirit
I will
You'll not have him afterwards
Never
You'll take somebody else
Yes
You shall
Damn that boy
Damn that boy! He must have been asleep. It's all imagination
Traitor
Dear Mr. Jingle was not deceiving me. Ugh! how I hate the wretch
How did I do it
Splendid -- capital -- couldn't act better myself -- you must repeat the part to-morrow -- every evening till further notice
Does Rachael still wish it
Of course -- she don't like it -- but must be done -- avert suspicion -- afraid of her brother -- says there's no help for it -- only a few days more -- when old folks blinded -- crown your happiness
Any message
Love -- best love -- kindest regards -- unalterable affection. Can I say anything for you
My dear fellow
friend's' hand
I will. Anything more
Nothing, only add how ardently I long for the time when I may call her mine, and all dissimulation may be unnecessary
Certainly, certainly. Anything more
Oh, my friend
receive my warmest thanks for your disinterested kindness; and forgive me if I have ever, even in thought, done you the injustice of supposing that you could stand in my way. My dear friend, can I ever repay you
Don't talk of it
By the bye -- can't spare ten pounds, can you?-- very particular purpose -- pay you in three days
I dare say I can
Three days, you say
Only three days -- all over then -- no more difficulties
Be careful
not a look
Not a wink
Not a syllable
Not a whisper
All your attentions to the niece -- rather rude, than otherwise, to the aunt -- only way of deceiving the old ones
I'll take care
And I'LL take care
Where's Rachael
Ay, and Jingle
Dear me
I wonder I haven't missed him before. Why, I don't think I've heard his voice for two hours at least. Emily, my dear, ring the bell
Where's Miss Rachael
Where's Mr. Jingle, then
Never mind
They'll turn up presently, I dare say. I never wait supper for anybody
Excellent rule, that
admirable
Pray, sit down
What the devil's the meaning of this
The kitchen chimney ain't a-fire, is it, Emma
Lor, grandma! No
What's the matter
They ha' gone, mas'r!-- gone right clean off, Sir
Who's gone
'em; so I run off to tell 'ee
I paid his expenses
He's got ten pounds of mine!-- stop him!-- he's swindled me!-- I won't bear it!-- I'll have justice, Pickwick!-- I won't stand it
Lord preserve us
He's gone mad! What shall we do
Do
Put the horse in the gig! I'll get a chaise at the Lion, and follow 'em instantly. Where
where's that villain, Joe
Here I am! but I hain't a willin
Let me get at him, Pickwick
He was bribed by that scoundrel, Jingle, to put me on a wrong scent, by telling a cock-and-bull story of my sister and your friend Tupman
Let me get at him
Don't let him
I won't be held
Mr. Winkle, take your hands off. Mr. Pickwick, let me go, sir
Don't let him go alone
He'll kill somebody
I'll go with him
You're a good fellow, Pickwick
Emma, give Mr. Pickwick a shawl to tie round his neck -- make haste. Look after your grandmother, girls; she has fainted away. Now then, are you ready
Give her her head, Tom
How much are they ahead
Not above three-quarters of an hour
Chaise-and-four directly!-- out with 'em! Put up the gig afterwards
Now, boys
chaise-and-four out -- make haste -- look alive there
Now then!-- is that chaise coming out to-night
Coming down the yard now, Sir
Mind -- the seven-mile stage in less than half an hour
Off with you
Pretty situation
We're sure to catch them, I think
Hope so
Fine night
So much the worse
for they'll have had all the advantage of the moonlight to get the start of us, and we shall lose it. It will have gone down in another hour
It will be rather unpleasant going at this rate in the dark, won't it
I dare say it will
Yo-yo-yo-yo-yoe
Yo-yo-yo-yoe
Yo-yo-yo-yoe
Yo-yo-yo-yoe
What's the matter
There's a gate here
We shall hear something of the fugitives
How long is it since a post-chaise went through here
How long
ah
Why, I don't rightly know. It worn't a long time ago, nor it worn't a short time ago -- just between the two, perhaps
Has any chaise been by at all
Oh, yes, there's been a Shay by
How long ago, my friend
an hour
Ah, I dare say it might be
Or two hours
Well, I shouldn't wonder if it was
Drive on, boys
don't waste any more time with that old idiot
Idiot
No -- not much o' that either; you've lost ten minutes here, and gone away as wise as you came, arter all. If every man on the line as has a guinea give him, earns it half as well, you won't catch t'other shay this side Mich'lmas, old short-and-fat
Horses on directly
When did this chaise come in
Not a quarter of an hour ago, sir
Lady and gentleman
Yes, sir
Tall gentleman -- dress-coat -- long legs -- thin body
Yes, sir
Elderly lady -- thin face -- rather skinny -- eh
Yes, sir
By heavens, it's the couple, Pickwick
Would have been here before
but they broke a trace
'Tis them
it is, by Jove! Chaise-and-four instantly! We shall catch them yet before they reach the next stage. A guinea a-piece, boys-be alive there -- bustle about -- there's good fellows
Jump in -- jump in
Come along! Make haste
Ah! we are moving now
Hold up
I never did feel such a jolting in my life
Never mind
it will soon be over. Steady, steady
Here they are
Go on, go on
Two guineas a-piece, boys -- don't let 'em gain on us -- keep it up -- keep it up
I see his head
damme, I see his head
So do I' said Mr. Pickwick; 'that's he
Hollo
anybody damaged?-- elderly gentlemen -- no light weights -- dangerous work -- very
You're a rascal
Ha! ha
I say -- she's very well -- desires her compliments -- begs you won't trouble yourself -- love to TUPPY -- won't you get up behind?-- drive on, boys
Tuppy
If ever I meet that man again, I'll
Yes, yes
that's all very well; but while we stand talking here, they'll get their licence, and be married in London
How far is it to the next stage
Six mile, ain't it, Tom
Rayther better
Rayther better nor six mile, Sir
Can't be helped
we must walk it, Pickwick
No help for it
Sam
Hollo
Number twenty-two wants his boots
Ask number twenty-two, vether he'll have 'em now, or vait till he gets 'em
Come, don't be a fool, Sam
the gentleman wants his boots directly
Well, you ARE a nice young 'ooman for a musical party, you are
Sam
where's that lazy, idle -- why, Sam -- oh, there you are; why don't you answer
Vouldn't be gen-teel to answer, till you'd done talking
Here, clean these shoes for number seventeen directly, and take 'em to private sitting-room, number five, first floor
Number five
She came in early this morning
with a gentleman in a hackney-coach, and it's him as wants his boots, and you'd better do 'em, that's all about it
Vy didn't you say so before
Come in
Boots
Sir
Do you know -- what's a-name -- Doctors' Commons
Yes, Sir
Where is it
Paul's Churchyard, Sir; low archway on the carriage side, bookseller's at one corner, hot-el on the other, and two porters in the middle as touts for licences
Touts for licences
Touts for licences
Two coves in vhite aprons -- touches their hats ven you walk in --"Licence, Sir, licence?" Queer sort, them, and their mas'rs, too, sir -- Old Bailey Proctors -- and no mistake
What do they do
but wen I gets on this here grievance, I runs on like a new barrow with the wheel greased
Half-past nine -- just the time -- off at once
Time -- for what
Licence, dearest of angels -- give notice at the church -- call you mine, to-morrow
The licence
The licence
In hurry, post-haste for a licence, In hurry, ding dong I come back
How you run on
Run on -- nothing to the hours, days, weeks, months, years, when we're united -- run on -- they'll fly on -- bolt -- mizzle -- steam-engine -- thousand-horse power -- nothing to it
Can't -- can't we be married before to-morrow morning
Impossible -- can't be -- notice at the church -- leave the licence to-day -- ceremony come off to-morrow
I am so terrified, lest my brother should discover us
Discover -- nonsense -- too much shaken by the break-down -- besides -- extreme caution -- gave up the post-chaise -- walked on -- took a hackney-coach -- came to the Borough -- last place in the world that he'd look in -- ha! ha!-- capital notion that -- very
Don't be long
Long away from you?-- Cruel charmer
Dear man
Rum old girl
trusty and well-beloved Alfred Jingle and Rachael Wardle, greeting
My friend
You're one o' the adwice gratis order
or you wouldn't be so wery fond o' me all at once
Well, Sir
My friend
have you got many people stopping here now? Pretty busy. Eh
Pretty busy, eh
Oh, wery well, Sir
Ah
you're a wag, ain't you
My eldest brother was troubled with that complaint
it may be catching -- I used to sleep with him
This is a curious old house of yours
If you'd sent word you was a-coming, we'd ha' had it repaired
The fact of the matter is
that my friend here (pointing to the other plump gentleman) will give you half a guinea, if you'll answer one or two
Now, my dear sir -- my dear Sir
pray, allow me -- my dear Sir, the very first principle to be observed in these cases, is this: if you place the matter in the hands of a professional man, you must in no way interfere in the progress of the business; you must repose implicit confidence in him. Really, Mr
I forget your friend's name
Pickwick
Ah, Pickwick -- really Mr. Pickwick, my dear Sir, excuse me -- I shall be happy to receive any private suggestions of yours, as AMICUS CURIAE, but you must see the impropriety of your interfering with my conduct in this case, with such an AD CAPTANDUM argument as the offer of half a guinea. Really, my dear Sir, really
My only wish, Sir
was to bring this very unpleasant matter to as speedy a close as possible
Quite right -- quite right
With which view
I made use of the argument which my experience of men has taught me is the most likely to succeed in any case
Ay, ay
very good, very good, indeed; but you should have suggested it to me. My dear sir, I'm quite certain you cannot be ignorant of the extent of confidence which must be placed in professional men. If any authority can be necessary on such a point, my dear sir, let me refer you to the well-known case in Barnwell and
Never mind George Barnwell
everybody knows what sort of a case his was, tho' it's always been my opinion, mind you, that the young 'ooman deserved scragging a precious sight more than he did. Hows'ever, that's neither here nor there. You want me to accept of half a guinea. Wery well, I'm agreeable: I can't say no fairer than that, can I, sir
We want to know
Now, my dear sir -- my dear sir
We want to know
and we ask the question of you, in order that we may not awaken apprehensions inside -- we want to know who you've got in this house at present
Who there is in the house
There's a vooden leg in number six; there's a pair of Hessians in thirteen; there's two pair of halves in the commercial; there's these here painted tops in the snuggery inside the bar; and five more tops in the coffee-room
Nothing more
Stop a bit
Yes; there's a pair of Vellingtons a good deal worn, and a pair o' lady's shoes, in number five
What sort of shoes
Country make
Any maker's name
Brown
Where of
It is them
By heavens, we've found them
Hush
The Vellingtons has gone to Doctors' Commons
No
Yes, for a licence
We're in time
Show us the room; not a moment is to be lost
Pray, my dear sir -- pray
caution, caution
Show us into the room at once, without announcing us
and it's yours
Here it is
Is this the room
You -- you are a nice rascal, arn't you
My dear Sir, my dear sir
pray, consider -- pray. Defamation of character: action for damages. Calm yourself, my dear sir, pray
How dare you drag my sister from my house
said the little gentleman, 'you may ask that. How dare you, sir?-- eh, sir
Who the devil are you
Who is he, you scoundrel
He's my lawyer, Mr. Perker, of Gray's Inn. Perker, I'll have this fellow prosecuted -- indicted -- I'll -- I'll -- I'll ruin him. And you
you, Rachael, at a time of life when you ought to know better, what do you mean by running away with a vagabond, disgracing your family, and making yourself miserable? Get on your bonnet and come back. Call a hackney-coach there, directly, and bring this lady's bill, d'ye hear -- d'ye hear
Get on your bonnet
Do nothing of the kind
Leave the room, Sir -- no business here -- lady's free to act as she pleases -- more than one-and-twenty
More than one-and-twenty
More than one-and-forty
I ain't
You are
you're fifty if you're an hour
A glass of water
A glass of water
Bring a bucket, and throw it all over her; it'll do her good, and she richly deserves it
Ugh, you brute
Poor dear
Come now, there's a dear -- drink a little of this -- it'll do you good -- don't give way so -- there's a love
Coach is ready, Sir
Come along
I'll carry her downstairs
Boots
get me an officer
Stay, stay
Consider, Sir, consider
I'll not consider
She's her own mistress -- see who dares to take her away -- unless she wishes it
I WON'T be taken away
I DON'T wish it
My dear Sir
my dear Sir, we're in a very awkward situation. It's a distressing case -- very; I never knew one more so; but really, my dear sir, really we have no power to control this lady's actions. I warned you before we came, my dear sir, that there was nothing to look to but a compromise
What kind of compromise would you recommend
Why, my dear Sir, our friend's in an unpleasant position -- very much so. We must be content to suffer some pecuniary loss
I'll suffer any, rather than submit to this disgrace, and let her, fool as she is, be made miserable for life
I rather think it can be done
Mr. Jingle, will you step with us into the next room for a moment
Now, sir
is there no way of accommodating this matter -- step this way, sir, for a moment -- into this window, Sir, where we can be alone -- there, sir, there, pray sit down, sir. Now, my dear Sir, between you and I, we know very well, my dear Sir, that you have run off with this lady for the sake of her money. Don't frown, Sir, don't frown; I say, between you and I, WE know it. We are both men of the world, and WE know very well that our friends here, are not -- eh
Very good, very good
Now, the fact is, that beyond a few hundreds, the lady has little or nothing till the death of her mother -- fine old lady, my dear Sir
OLD
Why, yes
You are right, my dear Sir, she is rather old. She comes of an old family though, my dear Sir; old in every sense of the word. The founder of that family came into Kent when Julius Caesar invaded Britain;-- only one member of it, since, who hasn't lived to eighty-five, and he was beheaded by one of the Henrys. The old lady is not seventy-three now, my dear Sir
Well
Well, my dear sir -- you don't take snuff!-- ah! so much the better -- expensive habit -- well, my dear Sir, you're a fine young man, man of the world -- able to push your fortune, if you had capital, eh
Well
Do you comprehend me
Not quite
Don't you think -- now, my dear Sir, I put it to you don't you think -- that fifty pounds and liberty would be better than Miss Wardle and expectation
Won't do -- not half enough
Nay, nay, my dear Sir
Good round sum -- a man like you could treble it in no time -- great deal to be done with fifty pounds, my dear Sir
More to be done with a hundred and fifty
Well, my dear Sir, we won't waste time in splitting straws
say -- say -- seventy
Won't do
Don't go away, my dear sir -- pray don't hurry
Eighty; come: I'll write you a cheque at once
Won't do
Well, my dear Sir, well
just tell me what WILL do
Expensive affair
Money out of pocket -- posting, nine pounds; licence, three -- that's twelve -- compensation, a hundred -- hundred and twelve -- breach of honour -- and loss of the lady
Yes, my dear Sir, yes
never mind the last two items. That's a hundred and twelve -- say a hundred -- come
And twenty
Come, come, I'll write you a cheque
I'll make it payable the day after to-morrow
and we can get the lady away, meanwhile
A hundred
And twenty
My dear Sir
Give it him
and let him go
Now, leave this house instantly
My dear Sir
And mind
that nothing should have induced me to make this compromise -- not even a regard for my family -- if I had not known that the moment you got any money in that pocket of yours, you'd go to the devil faster, if possible, than you would without it
My dear sir
Be quiet, Perker
Leave the room, Sir
Off directly
Bye bye, Pickwick
Here
get the name altered -- take home the lady -- do for Tuppy
Hollo
And how
how is Tupman
Snodgrass
how is our friend -- he is not ill
No
Winkle -- Snodgrass
what does this mean? Where is our friend? What has happened? Speak -- I conjure, I entreat -- nay, I command you, speak
He is gone
Gone
Gone
Gone
Where
We can only guess, from that communication
Yesterday morning, when a letter was received from Mr. Wardle, stating that you would be home with his sister at night, the melancholy which had hung over our friend during the whole of the previous day, was observed to increase. He shortly afterwards disappeared: he was missing during the whole day, and in the evening this letter was brought by the hostler from the Crown, at Muggleton. It had been left in his charge in the morning, with a strict injunction that it should not be delivered until night
MY DEAR PICKWICK,-- YOU, my dear friend, are placed far beyond the reach of many mortal frailties and weaknesses which ordinary people cannot overcome. You do not know what it is, at one blow, to be deserted by a lovely and fascinating creature, and to fall a victim to the artifices of a villain, who had the grin of cunning beneath the mask of friendship. I hope you never may. 'Any letter addressed to me at the Leather Bottle, Cobham, Kent, will be forwarded -- supposing I still exist. I hasten from the sight of that world, which has become odious to me. Should I hasten from it altogether, pity -- forgive me. Life, my dear Pickwick, has become insupportable to me. The spirit which burns within us, is a porter's knot, on which to rest the heavy load of worldly cares and troubles; and when that spirit fails us, the burden is too heavy to be borne. We sink beneath it. You may tell Rachael -- Ah, that name!-- 'TRACY TupmAN
We must leave this place directly
It would not have been decent for us to remain here, under any circumstances, after what has happened; and now we are bound to follow in search of our friend
You are not really going
Then here
is a little manuscript, which I had hoped to have the pleasure of reading to you myself. I found it on the death of a friend of mine -- a medical man, engaged in our county lunatic asylum -- among a variety of papers, which I had the option of destroying or preserving, as I thought proper. I can hardly believe that the manuscript is genuine, though it certainly is not in my friend's hand. However, whether it be the genuine production of a maniac, or founded upon the ravings of some unhappy being (which I think more probable), read it, and judge for yourself
If this
if this were the place to which all who are troubled with our friend's complaint came, I fancy their old attachment to this world would very soon return
I think so too
And really
really, for a misanthrope's choice, this is one of the prettiest and most desirable places of residence I ever met with
Show the gentlemen into the parlour, Tom
I did not expect to see you here
It's very kind
Ah
Finish your dinner, and walk out with me. I wish to speak to you alone
It mattered little to him
where he dragged out the miserable remainder of his days; and since his friend laid so much stress upon his humble companionship, he was willing to share his adventures
This is very strange
What is strange
God bless me, what's the matter
There is an inscription here
Is it possible
I can discern
I can discern a cross, and a 13, and then a T. This is important
This is some very old inscription, existing perhaps long before the ancient alms-houses in this place. It must not be lost
Do you know how this stone came here, my friend
No, I doan't, Sir
It was here long afore I was born, or any on us
You -- you -- are not particularly attached to it, I dare say
You wouldn't mind selling it, now
Ah! but who'd buy it
I'll give you ten shillings for it, at once
if you would take it up for me
This -- this
determines me. We return to town to-morrow
To-morrow
To-morrow
This treasure must be at once deposited where it can be thoroughly investigated and properly understood. I have another reason for this step. In a few days, an election is to take place for the borough of Eatanswill, at which Mr. Perker, a gentleman whom I lately met, is the agent of one of the candidates. We will behold, and minutely examine, a scene so interesting to every Englishman
We will
Let us celebrate this happy meeting with a convivial glass
Yes!-- a madman's! How that word would have struck to my heart, many years ago! How it would have roused the terror that used to come upon me sometimes, sending the blood hissing and tingling through my veins, till the cold dew of fear stood in large drops upon my skin, and my knees knocked together with fright! I like it now though. It's a fine name. Show me the monarch whose angry frown was ever feared like the glare of a madman's eye -- whose cord and axe were ever half so sure as a madman's gripe. Ho! ho! It's a grand thing to be mad! to be peeped at like a wild lion through the iron bars -- to gnash one's teeth and howl, through the long still night, to the merry ring of a heavy chain and to roll and twine among the straw, transported with such brave music. Hurrah for the madhouse! Oh, it's a rare place! 'I remember days when I was afraid of being mad; when I used to start from my sleep, and fall upon my knees, and pray to be spared from the curse of my race; when I rushed from the sight of merriment or happiness, to hide myself in some lonely place, and spend the weary hours in watching the progress of the fever that was to consume my brain. I knew that madness was mixed up with my very blood, and the marrow of my bones! that one generation had passed away without the pestilence appearing among them, and that I was the first in whom it would revive. I knew it must be so: that so it always had been, and so it ever would be: and when I cowered in some obscure corner of a crowded room, and saw men whisper, and point, and turn their eyes towards me, I knew they were telling each other of the doomed madman; and I slunk away again to mope in solitude. 

'I did this for years; long, long years they were. The nights here are long sometimes -- very long; but they are nothing to the restless nights, and dreadful dreams I had at that time. It makes me cold to remember them. Large dusky forms with sly and jeering faces crouched in the corners of the room, and bent over my bed at night, tempting me to madness. They told me in low whispers, that the floor of the old house in which my father died, was stained with his own blood, shed by his own hand in raging madness. I drove my fingers into my ears, but they screamed into my head till the room rang with it, that in one generation before him the madness slumbered, but that his grandfather had lived for years with his hands fettered to the ground, to prevent his tearing himself to pieces. I knew they told the truth -- I knew it well. I had found it out years before, though they had tried to keep it from me. Ha! ha! I was too cunning for them, madman as they thought me. 

'At last it came upon me, and I wondered how I could ever have feared it. I could go into the world now, and laugh and shout with the best among them. I knew I was mad, but they did not even suspect it. How I used to hug myself with delight, when I thought of the fine trick I was playing them after their old pointing and leering, when I was not mad, but only dreading that I might one day become so! And how I used to laugh for joy, when I was alone, and thought how well I kept my secret, and how quickly my kind friends would have fallen from me, if they had known the truth. I could have screamed with ecstasy when I dined alone with some fine roaring fellow, to think how pale he would have turned, and how fast he would have run, if he had known that the dear friend who sat close to him, sharpening a bright, glittering knife, was a madman with all the power, and half the will, to plunge it in his heart. Oh, it was a merry life! 

'Riches became mine, wealth poured in upon me, and I rioted in pleasures enhanced a thousandfold to me by the consciousness of my well-kept secret. I inherited an estate. The law -- the eagle- eyed law itself -- had been deceived, and had handed over disputed thousands to a madman's hands. Where was the wit of the sharp- sighted men of sound mind? Where the dexterity of the lawyers, eager to discover a flaw? The madman's cunning had overreached them all. 

'I had money. How I was courted! I spent it profusely. How I was praised! How those three proud, overbearing brothers humbled themselves before me! The old, white-headed father, too -- such deference -- such respect -- such devoted friendship -- he worshipped me! The old man had a daughter, and the young men a sister; and all the five were poor. I was rich; and when I married the girl, I saw a smile of triumph play upon the faces of her needy relatives, as they thought of their well-planned scheme, and their fine prize. It was for me to smile. To smile! To laugh outright, and tear my hair, and roll upon the ground with shrieks of merriment. They little thought they had married her to a madman. 

'Stay. If they had known it, would they have saved her? A sister's happiness against her husband's gold. The lightest feather I blow into the air, against the gay chain that ornaments my body! 

'In one thing I was deceived with all my cunning. If I had not been mad -- for though we madmen are sharp-witted enough, we get bewildered sometimes -- I should have known that the girl would rather have been placed, stiff and cold in a dull leaden coffin, than borne an envied bride to my rich, glittering house. I should have known that her heart was with the dark-eyed boy whose name I once heard her breathe in her troubled sleep; and that she had been sacrificed to me, to relieve the poverty of the old, white-headed man and the haughty brothers. 

'I don't remember forms or faces now, but I know the girl was beautiful. I know she was; for in the bright moonlight nights, when I start up from my sleep, and all is quiet about me, I see, standing still and motionless in one corner of this cell, a slight and wasted figure with long black hair, which, streaming down her back, stirs with no earthly wind, and eyes that fix their gaze on me, and never wink or close. Hush! the blood chills at my heart as I write it down -- that form is HERS; the face is very pale, and the eyes are glassy bright; but I know them well. That figure never moves; it never frowns and mouths as others do, that fill this place sometimes; but it is much more dreadful to me, even than the spirits that tempted me many years ago -- it comes fresh from the grave; and is so very death-like. 

'For nearly a year I saw that face grow paler; for nearly a year I saw the tears steal down the mournful cheeks, and never knew the cause. I found it out at last though. They could not keep it from me long. She had never liked me; I had never thought she did: she despised my wealth, and hated the splendour in which she lived; but I had not expected that. She loved another. This I had never thought of. Strange feelings came over me, and thoughts, forced upon me by some secret power, whirled round and round my brain. I did not hate her, though I hated the boy she still wept for. I pitied -- yes, I pitied -- the wretched life to which her cold and selfish relations had doomed her. I knew that she could not live long; but the thought that before her death she might give birth to some ill-fated being, destined to hand down madness to its offspring, determined me. I resolved to kill her. 

'For many weeks I thought of poison, and then of drowning, and then of fire. A fine sight, the grand house in flames, and the madman's wife smouldering away to cinders. Think of the jest of a large reward, too, and of some sane man swinging in the wind for a deed he never did, and all through a madman's cunning! I thought often of this, but I gave it up at last. Oh! the pleasure of stropping the razor day after day, feeling the sharp edge, and thinking of the gash one stroke of its thin, bright edge would make! 'At last the old spirits who had been with me so often before whispered in my ear that the time was come, and thrust the open razor into my hand. I grasped it firmly, rose softly from the bed, and leaned over my sleeping wife. Her face was buried in her hands. I withdrew them softly, and they fell listlessly on her bosom. She had been weeping; for the traces of the tears were still wet upon her cheek. Her face was calm and placid; and even as I looked upon it, a tranquil smile lighted up her pale features. I laid my hand softly on her shoulder. She started -- it was only a passing dream. I leaned forward again. She screamed, and woke. 

'One motion of my hand, and she would never again have uttered cry or sound. But I was startled, and drew back. Her eyes were fixed on mine. I knew not how it was, but they cowed and frightened me; and I quailed beneath them. She rose from the bed, still gazing fixedly and steadily on me. I trembled; the razor was in my hand, but I could not move. She made towards the door. As she neared it, she turned, and withdrew her eyes from my face. The spell was broken. I bounded forward, and clutched her by the arm. Uttering shriek upon shriek, she sank upon the ground. 

'Now I could have killed her without a struggle; but the house was alarmed. I heard the tread of footsteps on the stairs. I replaced the razor in its usual drawer, unfastened the door, and called loudly for assistance. 

'They came, and raised her, and placed her on the bed. She lay bereft of animation for hours; and when life, look, and speech returned, her senses had deserted her, and she raved wildly and furiously. 

'Doctors were called in -- great men who rolled up to my door in easy carriages, with fine horses and gaudy servants. They were at her bedside for weeks. They had a great meeting and consulted together in low and solemn voices in another room. One, the cleverest and most celebrated among them, took me aside, and bidding me prepare for the worst, told me -- me, the madman!-- that my wife was mad. He stood close beside me at an open window, his eyes looking in my face, and his hand laid upon my arm. With one effort, I could have hurled him into the street beneath. It would have been rare sport to have done it; but my secret was at stake, and I let him go. A few days after, they told me I must place her under some restraint: I must provide a keeper for her. I! I went into the open fields where none could hear me, and laughed till the air resounded with my shouts! 

'She died next day. The white-headed old man followed her to the grave, and the proud brothers dropped a tear over the insensible corpse of her whose sufferings they had regarded in her lifetime with muscles of iron. All this was food for my secret mirth, and I laughed behind the white handkerchief which I held up to my face, as we rode home, till the tears Came into my eyes. 

'But though I had carried my object and killed her, I was restless and disturbed, and I felt that before long my secret must be known. I could not hide the wild mirth and joy which boiled within me, and made me when I was alone, at home, jump up and beat my hands together, and dance round and round, and roar aloud. When I went out, and saw the busy crowds hurrying about the streets; or to the theatre, and heard the sound of music, and beheld the people dancing, I felt such glee, that I could have rushed among them, and torn them to pieces limb from limb, and howled in transport. But I ground my teeth, and struck my feet upon the floor, and drove my sharp nails into my hands. I kept it down; and no one knew I was a madman yet. 

'I remember -- though it's one of the last things I can remember: for now I mix up realities with my dreams, and having so much to do, and being always hurried here, have no time to separate the two, from some strange confusion in which they get involved -- I remember how I let it out at last. Ha! ha! I think I see their frightened looks now, and feel the ease with which I flung them from me, and dashed my clenched fist into their white faces, and then flew like the wind, and left them screaming and shouting far behind. The strength of a giant comes upon me when I think of it. There -- see how this iron bar bends beneath my furious wrench. I could snap it like a twig, only there are long galleries here with many doors -- I don't think I could find my way along them; and even if I could, I know there are iron gates below which they keep locked and barred. They know what a clever madman I have been, and they are proud to have me here, to show. 

'Let me see: yes, I had been out. It was late at night when I reached home, and found the proudest of the three proud brothers waiting to see me -- urgent business he said: I recollect it well. I hated that man with all a madman's hate. Many and many a time had my fingers longed to tear him. They told me he was there. I ran swiftly upstairs. He had a word to say to me. I dismissed the servants. It was late, and we were alone together -- for the first time. 

'I kept my eyes carefully from him at first, for I knew what he little thought -- and I gloried in the knowledge -- that the light of madness gleamed from them like fire. We sat in silence for a few minutes. He spoke at last. My recent dissipation, and strange remarks, made so soon after his sister's death, were an insult to her memory. Coupling together many circumstances which had at first escaped his observation, he thought I had not treated her well. He wished to know whether he was right in inferring that I meant to cast a reproach upon her memory, and a disrespect upon her family. It was due to the uniform he wore, to demand this explanation. 

'This man had a commission in the army -- a commission, purchased with my money, and his sister's misery! This was the man who had been foremost in the plot to ensnare me, and grasp my wealth. This was the man who had been the main instrument in forcing his sister to wed me; well knowing that her heart was given to that puling boy. Due to his uniform! The livery of his degradation! I turned my eyes upon him -- I could not help it -- but I spoke not a word. 

'I saw the sudden change that came upon him beneath my gaze. He was a bold man, but the colour faded from his face, and he drew back his chair. I dragged mine nearer to him; and I laughed -- I was very merry then -- I saw him shudder. I felt the madness rising within me. He was afraid of me. 

' "You were very fond of your sister when she was alive," I said.--"Very." 

'He looked uneasily round him, and I saw his hand grasp the back of his chair; but he said nothing. 

' "You villain," said I, "I found you out: I discovered your hellish plots against me; I know her heart was fixed on some one else before you compelled her to marry me. I know it -- I know it." 

'He jumped suddenly from his chair, brandished it aloft, and bid me stand back -- for I took care to be getting closer to him all the time I spoke. 

'I screamed rather than talked, for I felt tumultuous passions eddying through my veins, and the old spirits whispering and taunting me to tear his heart out. 

' "Damn you," said I, starting up, and rushing upon him; "I killed her. I am a madman. Down with you. Blood, blood! I will have it!" 

'I turned aside with one blow the chair he hurled at me in his terror, and closed with him; and with a heavy crash we rolled upon the floor together. 'It was a fine struggle that; for he was a tall, strong man, fighting for his life; and I, a powerful madman, thirsting to destroy him. I knew no strength could equal mine, and I was right. Right again, though a madman! His struggles grew fainter. I knelt upon his chest, and clasped his brawny throat firmly with both hands. His face grew purple; his eyes were starting from his head, and with protruded tongue, he seemed to mock me. I squeezed the tighter. 'The door was suddenly burst open with a loud noise, and a crowd of people rushed forward, crying aloud to each other to secure the madman. 

'My secret was out; and my only struggle now was for liberty and freedom. I gained my feet before a hand was on me, threw myself among my assailants, and cleared my way with my strong arm, as if I bore a hatchet in my hand, and hewed them down before me. I gained the door, dropped over the banisters, and in an instant was in the street. 

'Straight and swift I ran, and no one dared to stop me. I heard the noise of the feet behind, and redoubled my speed. It grew fainter and fainter in the distance, and at length died away altogether; but on I bounded, through marsh and rivulet, over fence and wall, with a wild shout which was taken up by the strange beings that flocked around me on every side, and swelled the sound, till it pierced the air. I was borne upon the arms of demons who swept along upon the wind, and bore down bank and hedge before them, and spun me round and round with a rustle and a speed that made my head swim, until at last they threw me from them with a violent shock, and I fell heavily upon the earth. When I woke I found myself here -- here in this gray cell, where the sunlight seldom comes, and the moon steals in, in rays which only serve to show the dark shadows about me, and that silent figure in its old corner. When I lie awake, I can sometimes hear strange shrieks and cries from distant parts of this large place. What they are, I know not; but they neither come from that pale form, nor does it regard them. For from the first shades of dusk till the earliest light of morning, it still stands motionless in the same place, listening to the music of my iron chain, and watching my gambols on my straw bed
humbugs
Mrs. Bardell
Sir
Your little boy is a very long time gone
Why it's a good long way to the Borough, sir
Ah
very true; so it is
Mrs. Bardell
Sir
Do you think it a much greater expense to keep two people, than to keep one
La, Mr. Pickwick
La, Mr. Pickwick, what a question
Well, but do you
That depends
that depends a good deal upon the person, you know, Mr. Pickwick; and whether it's a saving and careful person, sir
That's very true
but the person I have in my eye (here he looked very hard at Mrs. Bardell) I think possesses these qualities; and has, moreover, a considerable knowledge of the world, and a great deal of sharpness, Mrs. Bardell, which may be of material use to me
La, Mr. Pickwick
I do
I do, indeed; and to tell you the truth, Mrs. Bardell, I have made up my mind
Dear me, sir
You'll think it very strange now
that I never consulted you about this matter, and never even mentioned it, till I sent your little boy out this morning -- eh
Well
what do you think
Oh, Mr. Pickwick
you're very kind, sir
It'll save you a good deal of trouble, won't it
Oh, I never thought anything of the trouble, sir
and, of course, I should take more trouble to please you then, than ever; but it is so kind of you, Mr. Pickwick, to have so much consideration for my loneliness
Ah, to be sure
I never thought of that. When I am in town, you'll always have somebody to sit with you. To be sure, so you will
I am sure I ought to be a very happy woman
And your little boy
Bless his heart
He, too, will have a companion
a lively one, who'll teach him, I'll be bound, more tricks in a week than he would ever learn in a year
Oh, you dear
Oh, you kind, good, playful dear
Bless my soul
Mrs. Bardell, my good woman -- dear me, what a situation -- pray consider.-- Mrs. Bardell, don't -- if anybody should come
Oh, let them come
I'll never leave you -- dear, kind, good soul
Mercy upon me
I hear somebody coming up the stairs. Don't, don't, there's a good creature, don't
Take this little villain away
he's mad
What is the matter
I don't know
Take away the boy
Now help me, lead this woman downstairs
Oh, I am better now
Let me lead you downstairs
Thank you, sir -- thank you
I cannot conceive
I cannot conceive what has been the matter with that woman. I had merely announced to her my intention of keeping a man-servant, when she fell into the extraordinary paroxysm in which you found her. Very extraordinary thing
Very
Placed me in such an extremely awkward situation
Very
There is a man in the passage now
It's the man I spoke to you about
I sent for him to the Borough this morning. Have the goodness to call him up, Snodgrass
Oh -- you remember me, I suppose
I should think so
Queer start that 'ere, but he was one too many for you, warn't he? Up to snuff and a pinch or two over -- eh
Never mind that matter now
I want to speak to you about something else. Sit down
Thank'ee, sir
un to look at
un to wear; and afore the brim went, it was a wery handsome tile. Hows'ever it's lighter without it, that's one thing, and every hole lets in some air, that's another -- wentilation gossamer I calls it
Now with regard to the matter on which I, with the concurrence of these gentlemen, sent for you
That's the pint, sir
out vith it, as the father said to his child, when he swallowed a farden
We want to know, in the first place
whether you have any reason to be discontented with your present situation
I should like to know, in the first place, whether you're a-goin' to purwide me with a better
I have half made up my mind to engage you myself
Have you, though
Wages
Twelve pounds a year
Clothes
Two suits
Work
To attend upon me; and travel about with me and these gentlemen here
Take the bill down
I'm let to a single gentleman, and the terms is agreed upon
You accept the situation
If the clothes fits me half as well as the place, they'll do
You can get a character of course
Ask the landlady o' the White Hart about that, Sir
Can you come this evening
I'll get into the clothes this minute, if they're here
Call at eight this evening
and if the inquiries are satisfactory, they shall be provided
Well
I wonder whether I'm meant to be a footman, or a groom, or a gamekeeper, or a seedsman. I looks like a sort of compo of every one on 'em. Never mind; there's a change of air, plenty to see, and little to do; and all this suits my complaint uncommon; so long life to the Pickvicks, says I
Our worthless contemporary, the GAZETTE
That false and scurrilous print, the INDEPENDENT
That vile and slanderous calumniator, the GAZETTE
Hurrah
One cheer more
Slumkey for ever
Slumkey for ever
No Fizkin
Certainly not
Hurrah
Who is Slumkey
I don't know
Hush. Don't ask any questions. It's always best on these occasions to do what the mob do
But suppose there are two mobs
Shout with the largest
Can we have beds here
Don't know, Sir
afraid we're full, sir -- I'll inquire, Sir
Blue
Do you know a gentleman of the name of Perker
Certainly, Sir; Honourable Mr. Samuel Slumkey's agent
He is Blue, I think
Oh, yes, Sir
Then WE are Blue
Ah -- ah, my dear Sir
very happy to see you, my dear Sir, very. Pray sit down. So you have carried your intention into effect. You have come down here to see an election -- eh
Spirited contest, my dear sir
I'm delighted to hear it
I like to see sturdy patriotism, on whatever side it is called forth -- and so it's a spirited contest
Oh, yes
very much so indeed. We have opened all the public-houses in the place, and left our adversary nothing but the beer-shops-masterly stroke of policy that, my dear Sir, eh
And what are the probabilities as to the result of the contest
Why, doubtful, my dear Sir; rather doubtful as yet
Fizkin's people have got three-and-thirty voters in the lock-up coach-house at the White Hart
In the coach-house
They keep 'em locked up there till they want 'em
The effect of that is, you see, to prevent our getting at them; and even if we could, it would be of no use, for they keep them very drunk on purpose. Smart fellow Fizkin's agent -- very smart fellow indeed
We are pretty confident, though
We had a little tea-party here, last night -- five-and-forty women, my dear sir -- and gave every one of 'em a green parasol when she went away
A parasol
Fact, my dear Sir, fact. Five-and-forty green parasols, at seven and sixpence a-piece. All women like finery -- extraordinary the effect of those parasols. Secured all their husbands, and half their brothers -- beats stockings, and flannel, and all that sort of thing hollow. My idea, my dear Sir, entirely. Hail, rain, or sunshine, you can't walk half a dozen yards up the street, without encountering half a dozen green parasols
This contest excites great interest in the metropolis, sir
I believe it does
To which I have reason to know
to which I have reason to know that my article of last Saturday in some degree contributed
Not the least doubt of it
The press is a mighty engine, sir
But I trust, sir
that I have never abused the enormous power I wield. I trust, sir, that I have never pointed the noble instrument which is placed in my hands, against the sacred bosom of private life, or the tender breast of individual reputation; I trust, sir, that I have devoted my energies to -- to endeavours -- humble they may be, humble I know they are -- to instil those principles of -- which -- are
Certainly
And what, Sir
what, Sir, let me ask you as an impartial man, is the state of the public mind in London, with reference to my contest with the INDEPENDENT
Greatly excited, no doubt
The contest
shall be prolonged so long as I have health and strength, and that portion of talent with which I am gifted. From that contest, Sir, although it may unsettle men's minds and excite their feelings, and render them incapable for the discharge of the everyday duties of ordinary life; from that contest, sir, I will never shrink, till I have set my heel upon the Eatanswill INDEPENDENT. I wish the people of London, and the people of this country to know, sir, that they may rely upon me -- that I will not desert them, that I am resolved to stand by them, Sir, to the last
Your conduct is most noble, Sir
You are, sir, I perceive, a man of sense and talent
I am most happy, sir, to make the acquaintance of such a man
And I
feel deeply honoured by this expression of your opinion. Allow me, sir, to introduce you to my fellow-travellers, the other corresponding members of the club I am proud to have founded
I shall be delighted
Now, my dear Pott
the question is, what are we to do with our friends here
We can stop in this house, I suppose
Not a spare bed in the house, my dear sir -- not a single bed
Extremely awkward
Very
I have an idea upon this subject
which I think may be very successfully adopted. They have two beds at the Peacock, and I can boldly say, on behalf of Mrs. Pott, that she will be delighted to accommodate Mr. Pickwick and any one of his friends, if the other two gentlemen and their servant do not object to shifting, as they best can, at the Peacock
My dear
Mr. Pickwick -- Mr. Pickwick of London
P. my dear
My life
Pray introduce the other gentleman
I beg a thousand pardons
Permit me, Mrs. Pott, Mr
Winkle
Winkle
We owe you many apologies, ma'am
for disturbing your domestic arrangements at so short a notice
I beg you won't mention it, sir
It is a high treat to me, I assure you, to see any new faces; living as I do, from day to day, and week to week, in this dull place, and seeing nobody
Nobody, my dear
Nobody but you
You see, Mr. Pickwick
that we are in some measure cut off from many enjoyments and pleasures of which we might otherwise partake. My public station, as editor of the Eatanswill GAZETTE, the position which that paper holds in the country, my constant immersion in the vortex of politics
P. my dear
My life
I wish, my dear, you would endeavour to find some topic of conversation in which these gentlemen might take some rational interest
But, my love
Mr. Pickwick does take an interest in it
It's well for him if he can
I am wearied out of my life with your politics, and quarrels with the INDEPENDENT, and nonsense. I am quite astonished, P., at your making such an exhibition of your absurdity
But, my dear
Oh, nonsense, don't talk to me
Do you play ecarte, Sir
I shall be very happy to learn under your tuition
Well, then, draw that little table into this window, and let me get out of hearing of those prosy politics
Jane
go down into the office, and bring me up the file of the GAZETTE for eighteen hundred and twenty-six. I'll read you
I'll just read you a few of the leaders I wrote at that time upon the Buff job of appointing a new tollman to the turnpike here; I rather think they'll amuse you
I should like to hear them very much indeed
a delightful old dear
Well, Sam
all alive to-day, I suppose
Reg'lar game, sir
our people's a-collecting down at the Town Arms, and they're a-hollering themselves hoarse already
Ah
do they seem devoted to their party, Sam
Never see such dewotion in my life, Sir
Energetic, eh
Uncommon
That's the mistaken kindness of the gentry here
Wery likely
Fine, fresh, hearty fellows they seem
Wery fresh
me and the two waiters at the Peacock has been a-pumpin' over the independent woters as supped there last night
Pumping over independent voters
Yes
'em under the pump, and they're in reg'lar fine order now. Shillin' a head the committee paid for that 'ere job
Can such things be
Lord bless your heart, sir
Nothing
Nothin' at all, Sir
The night afore the last day o' the last election here, the opposite party bribed the barmaid at the Town Arms, to hocus the brandy-and-water of fourteen unpolled electors as was a-stoppin' in the house
What do you mean by "hocussing" brandy-and-water
Blessed if she didn't send 'em all to sleep till twelve hours arter the election was over. They took one man up to the booth, in a truck, fast asleep, by way of experiment, but it was no go -- they wouldn't poll him; so they brought him back, and put him to bed again
Strange practices, these
Not half so strange as a miraculous circumstance as happened to my own father, at an election time, in this wery place, Sir
What was that
Why, he drove a coach down here once
continued Sam, with a look of inexpressible impudence at his master, 'that on the wery day as he came down with them woters, his coach WAS upset on that 'ere wery spot, and ev'ry man on 'em was turned into the canal
And got out again
Why
it is, no doubt, a very extraordinary circumstance indeed
But brush my hat, Sam, for I hear Mr. Winkle calling me to breakfast
Men of Eatanswill
Is everything ready
Everything, my dear Sir
Nothing has been omitted, I hope
Nothing has been left undone, my dear sir -- nothing whatever. There are twenty washed men at the street door for you to shake hands with; and six children in arms that you're to pat on the head, and inquire the age of; be particular about the children, my dear sir -- it has always a great effect, that sort of thing
I'll take care
And, perhaps, my dear Sir
perhaps if you could -- I don't mean to say it's indispensable -- but if you could manage to kiss one of 'em, it would produce a very great impression on the crowd
Wouldn't it have as good an effect if the proposer or seconder did that
Why, I am afraid it wouldn't
if it were done by yourself, my dear Sir, I think it would make you very popular
Very well
then it must be done. That's all
Arrange the procession
He has come out
He has shaken hands with the men
He has patted the babies on the head
He has kissed one of 'em
He has kissed another
He's kissing 'em all
There's Winkle
Where
There
on the top of that house
Oh, you wicked old rascal
looking arter the girls, are you
Oh, you wenerable sinner
Putting on his spectacles to look at a married 'ooman
I see him a-winkin' at her, with his wicked old eye
Look arter your wife, Pott
Silence
Whiffin, proclaim silence
Gentlemen
gentlemen. Brother electors of the borough of Eatanswill. We are met here to-day for the purpose of choosing a representative in the room of our late
Suc-cess to the mayor
and may he never desert the nail and sarspan business, as he got his money by
send a boy home, to ask whether he hadn't left his voice under the pillow
Well, gents
our noble selves, gents. I always propose that toast to the company, and drink Mary to myself. Eh, Mary
Get along with you, you wretch
Don't go away, Mary
Let me alone, imperence
Never mind
I'll step out by and by, Mary. Keep your spirits up, dear
Rum creeters is women
Ah! no mistake about that
There's rummer things than women in this world though, mind you
Are you married
Can't say I am
I thought not
Women, after all, gentlemen
are the great props and comforts of our existence
So they are
When they're in a good humour
And that's very true
I repudiate that qualification
I repudiate it with disdain -- with indignation. Show me the man who says anything against women, as women, and I boldly declare he is not a man
That's good sound argument
Containing a position which I deny
And there's certainly a very great deal of truth in what you observe too, Sir
Your health, Sir
I always like to hear a good argument
a sharp one, like this: it's very improving; but this little argument about women brought to my mind a story I have heard an old uncle of mine tell, the recollection of which, just now, made me say there were rummer things than women to be met with, sometimes
I should like to hear that same story
Should you
So should I
Should YOU? Well then, I'll tell it. No, I won't. I know you won't believe it
If you say it's true, of course I shall
Well, upon that understanding I'll tell you
IF," said Tom Smart, looking very shrewdly out of the right- hand corner of his left eye. "IF
Jinkins, to wit," said Tom. ' "Lor, sir!" exclaimed the widow. 

' "Oh, don't tell me," said Tom, "I know him." 

' "I am sure nobody who knows him, knows anything bad of him," said the widow, bridling up at the mysterious air with which Tom had spoken. 

' "Hem!" said Tom Smart. 

'The widow began to think it was high time to cry, so she took out her handkerchief, and inquired whether Tom wished to insult her, whether he thought it like a gentleman to take away the character of another gentleman behind his back, why, if he had got anything to say, he didn't say it to the man, like a man, instead of terrifying a poor weak woman in that way; and so forth. 

' "I'll say it to him fast enough," said Tom, "only I want you to hear it first." 

' "What is it?" inquired the widow, looking intently in Tom's countenance. 

' "I'll astonish you," said Tom, putting his hand in his pocket. 

' "If it is, that he wants money," said the widow, "I know that already, and you needn't trouble yourself." ' "Pooh, nonsense, that's nothing," said Tom Smart, "I want money. 'Tain't that." 

' "Oh, dear, what can it be?" exclaimed the poor widow. 

' "Don't be frightened," said Tom Smart. He slowly drew forth the letter, and unfolded it. "You won't scream?" said Tom doubtfully. 

' "No, no," replied the widow; "let me see it." 

' "You won't go fainting away, or any of that nonsense?" said Tom. 

' "No, no," returned the widow hastily. 

' "And don't run out, and blow him up," said Tom; "because I'll do all that for you. You had better not exert yourself." 

' "Well, well," said the widow, "let me see it." 

' "I will," replied Tom Smart; and, with these words, he placed the letter in the widow's hand. 

'Gentlemen, I have heard my uncle say, that Tom Smart said the widow's lamentations when she heard the disclosure would have pierced a heart of stone. Tom was certainly very tender- hearted, but they pierced his, to the very core. The widow rocked herself to and fro, and wrung her hands. 

' "Oh, the deception and villainy of the man!" said the widow. 

' "Frightful, my dear ma'am; but compose yourself," said Tom Smart. 

' "Oh, I can't compose myself," shrieked the widow. "I shall never find anyone else I can love so much!" 

' "Oh, yes you will, my dear soul," said Tom Smart, letting fall a shower of the largest-sized tears, in pity for the widow's misfortunes. Tom Smart, in the energy of his compassion, had put his arm round the widow's waist; and the widow, in a passion of grief, had clasped Tom's hand. She looked up in Tom's face, and smiled through her tears. Tom looked down in hers, and smiled through his. 

'I never could find out, gentlemen, whether Tom did or did not kiss the widow at that particular moment. He used to tell my uncle he didn't, but I have my doubts about it. Between ourselves, gentlemen, I rather think he did. 

'At all events, Tom kicked the very tall man out at the front door half an hour later, and married the widow a month after. And he used to drive about the country, with the clay-coloured gig with the red wheels, and the vixenish mare with the fast pace, till he gave up business many years afterwards, and went to France with his wife; and then the old house was pulled down
Will you allow me to ask you
what became of the chair
Why
it was observed to creak very much on the day of the wedding; but Tom Smart couldn't say for certain whether it was with pleasure or bodily infirmity. He rather thought it was the latter, though, for it never spoke afterwards
Everybody believed the story, didn't they
Except Tom's enemies
Some of 'em said Tom invented it altogether; and others said he was drunk and fancied it, and got hold of the wrong trousers by mistake before he went to bed. But nobody ever minded what THEY said
Tom Smart said it was all true
Every word
And your uncle
Every letter
They must have been very nice men, both of 'em
Yes, they were
very nice men indeed
Does the person want me, Sam
He wants you partickler; and no one else 'll do, as the devil's private secretary said ven he fetched avay Doctor Faustus
HE. Is it a gentleman
A wery good imitation o' one, if it ain't
But this is a lady's card
replied Sam, 'and he's a-waitin' in the drawing-room -- said he'd rather wait all day, than not see you
Mr. Pickwick, I presume
The same
Allow me, Sir, the honour of grasping your hand. Permit me, Sir, to shake it
Certainly
We have heard of your fame, sir. The noise of your antiquarian discussion has reached the ears of Mrs. Leo Hunter -- my wife, sir; I am Mr. Leo Hunter
My wife, sir -- Mrs. Leo Hunter -- is proud to number among her acquaintance all those who have rendered themselves celebrated by their works and talents. Permit me, sir, to place in a conspicuous part of the list the name of Mr. Pickwick, and his brother-members of the club that derives its name from him
I shall be extremely happy to make the acquaintance of such a lady, sir
You SHALL make it, sir
To-morrow morning, sir, we give a public breakfast -- a FETE CHAMPETRE -- to a great number of those who have rendered themselves celebrated by their works and talents. Permit Mrs. Leo Hunter, Sir, to have the gratification of seeing you at the Den
With great pleasure
Mrs. Leo Hunter has many of these breakfasts, Sir
feasts of reason," sir, "and flows of soul," as somebody who wrote a sonnet to Mrs. Leo Hunter on her breakfasts, feelingly and originally observed
Was HE celebrated for his works and talents
He was Sir
all Mrs. Leo Hunter's acquaintances are; it is her ambition, sir, to have no other acquaintance
It is a very noble ambition
When I inform Mrs. Leo Hunter, that that remark fell from your lips, sir, she will indeed be proud
You have a gentleman in your train, who has produced some beautiful little poems, I think, sir
My friend Mr. Snodgrass has a great taste for poetry
So has Mrs. Leo Hunter, Sir. She dotes on poetry, sir. She adores it; I may say that her whole soul and mind are wound up, and entwined with it. She has produced some delightful pieces, herself, sir. You may have met with her "Ode to an Expiring Frog," sir
I don't think I have
You astonish me, Sir
Can I view thee panting, lying On thy stomach, without sighing; Can I unmoved see thee dying On a log Expiring frog
Beautiful
Fine
so simple
Very
The next verse is still more touching. Shall I repeat it
If you please
It runs thus
Say, have fiends in shape of boys, With wild halloo, and brutal noise, Hunted thee from marshy joys, With a dog, Expiring frog
Finely expressed
All point, Sir
but you shall hear Mrs. Leo Hunter repeat it. She can do justice to it, Sir. She will repeat it, in character, Sir, to-morrow morning
In character
As Minerva. But I forgot -- it's a fancy-dress DEJEUNE
Dear me
I can't possibly
Can't, sir; can't
Solomon Lucas, the Jew in the High Street, has thousands of fancy- dresses. Consider, Sir, how many appropriate characters are open for your selection. Plato, Zeno, Epicurus, Pythagoras -- all founders of clubs
I know that
but as I cannot put myself in competition with those great men, I cannot presume to wear their dresses
On reflection, Sir, I don't know whether it would not afford Mrs. Leo Hunter greater pleasure, if her guests saw a gentleman of your celebrity in his own costume, rather than in an assumed one. I may venture to promise an exception in your case, sir -- yes, I am quite certain that, on behalf of Mrs. Leo Hunter, I may venture to do so
In that case
I shall have great pleasure in coming
But I waste your time, Sir
I know its value, sir. I will not detain you. I may tell Mrs. Leo Hunter, then, that she may confidently expect you and your distinguished friends? Good-morning, Sir, I am proud to have beheld so eminent a personage -- not a step sir; not a word
Mrs. Pott's going
Is she
As Apollo
Only Pott objects to the tunic
He is right. He is quite right
Yes; so she's going to wear a white satin gown with gold spangles
They'll hardly know what she's meant for; will they
Of course they will
They'll see her lyre, won't they
True; I forgot that
I shall go as a bandit
What
As a bandit
You don't mean to say
you don't mean to say, Mr. Tupman, that it is your intention to put yourself into a green velvet jacket, with a two-inch tail
Such IS my intention, Sir
And why not, sir
Because, Sir
because you are too old, Sir
Too old
And if any further ground of objection be wanting
you are too fat, sir
Sir
this is an insult
Sir
it is not half the insult to you, that your appearance in my presence in a green velvet jacket, with a two-inch tail, would be to me
Sir
you're a fellow
Sir
you're another
Sir
you have called me old
I have
And fat
I reiterate the charge
And a fellow
So you are
My attachment to your person, sir
is great -- very great -- but upon that person, I must take summary vengeance
Come on, Sir
What
what! Mr. Pickwick, with the eyes of the world upon you! Mr. Tupman! who, in common with us all, derives a lustre from his undying name! For shame, gentlemen; for shame
I have been hasty
very hasty. Tupman; your hand
I have been hasty, too
No, no
the fault was mine. You will wear the green velvet jacket
No, no
To oblige me, you will
Well, well, I will
would present a scene of varied and delicious enchantment -- a bewildering coruscation of beauty and talent -- a lavish and prodigal display of hospitality -- above all, a degree of splendour softened by the most exquisite taste; and adornment refined with perfect harmony and the chastest good keeping -- compared with which, the fabled gorgeousness of Eastern fairyland itself would appear to be clothed in as many dark and murky colours, as must be the mind of the splenetic and unmanly being who could presume to taint with the venom of his envy, the preparations made by the virtuous and highly distinguished lady at whose shrine this humble tribute of admiration was offered
Bravo
Bravo
Hoo-roar Pott
Mr. Pickwick, ma'am
What! Where
Here
Is it possible that I have really the gratification of beholding Mr. Pickwick himself
No other, ma'am
Permit me to introduce my friends -- Mr. Tupman -- Mr. Winkle -- Mr. Snodgrass -- to the authoress of "The Expiring Frog
Mr. Pickwick
I must make you promise not to stir from my side the whole day. There are hundreds of people here, that I must positively introduce you to
You are very kind, ma'am
In the first place, here are my little girls; I had almost forgotten them
They are very beautiful
They are very like their mamma, Sir
Oh, you naughty man
Why now, my dear Mrs. Hunter
you know that when your picture was in the exhibition of the Royal Academy, last year, everybody inquired whether it was intended for you, or your youngest daughter; for you were so much alike that there was no telling the difference between you
Well, and if they did, why need you repeat it, before strangers
Count, count
Ah! you want me
I want to introduce two very clever people to each other
Mr. Pickwick, I have great pleasure in introducing you to Count Smorltork
The famous foreigner -- gathering materials for his great work on England -- hem!-- Count Smorltork, Mr. Pickwick
What you say, Mrs. Hunt
Pig Vig or Big Vig -- what you call -- lawyer -- eh? I see -- that is it. Big Vig
No, no, count
Pick-wick
Ah, ah, I see
Peek -- christian name; Weeks -- surname; good, ver good. Peek Weeks. How you do, Weeks
Quite well, I thank you
Have you been long in England
Long -- ver long time -- fortnight -- more
Do you stay here long
One week
You will have enough to do
to gather all the materials you want in that time
Eh, they are gathered
Indeed
They are here
Large book at home -- full of notes -- music, picture, science, potry, poltic; all tings
The word politics, sir
comprises in itself, a difficult study of no inconsiderable magnitude
Ah
ver good -- fine words to begin a chapter. Chapter forty-seven. Poltics. The word poltic surprises by himself
Count
Mrs. Hunt
This is Mr. Snodgrass, a friend of Mr. Pickwick's, and a poet
Stop
Head, potry -- chapter, literary friends -- name, Snowgrass; ver good. Introduced to Snowgrass -- great poet, friend of Peek Weeks -- by Mrs. Hunt, which wrote other sweet poem -- what is that name?-- Fog -- Perspiring Fog -- ver good -- ver good indeed
Wonderful man, Count Smorltork
Sound philosopher
Clear-headed, strong-minded person
Very
Ode to an Expiring Frog
Where is Mr. Pott
Here I am
Won't you come up here
Oh, pray don't mind him
you give yourself a great deal of unnecessary trouble, Mrs. Hunter. You'll do very well there, won't you -- dear
Certainly -- love
My dear; here's Mr. Charles Fitz-Marshall
Oh dear
how anxiously I have been expecting him. Pray make room, to let Mr. Fitz-Marshall pass. Tell Mr. Fitz-Marshall, my dear, to come up to me directly, to be scolded for coming so late
Coming, my dear ma'am
as quick as I can -- crowds of people -- full room -- hard work -- very
Ah
regular mangle -- Baker's patent -- not a crease in my coat, after all this squeezing -- might have "got up my linen" as I came along -- ha! ha! not a bad idea, that -- queer thing to have it mangled when it's upon one, though -- trying process -- very
Hollo
Quite forgot -- no directions to postillion -- give 'em at once -- back in a minute
The servant, or Mr. Hunter will do it in a moment, Mr. Fitz-Marshall
No, no -- I'll do it -- shan't be long -- back in no time
Will you allow me to ask you, ma'am
who that young man is, and where he resides
He is a gentleman of fortune, Mr. Pickwick
to whom I very much want to introduce you. The count will be delighted with him
Yes, yes
His residence
Is at present at the Angel at Bury
At Bury
At Bury St. Edmunds, not many miles from here. But dear me, Mr. Pickwick, you are not going to leave us; surely Mr. Pickwick you cannot think of going so soon
It's of no use
He has gone
I know it
and I will follow him
Follow him! Where
To the Angel at Bury
How do we know whom he is deceiving there? He deceived a worthy man once, and we were the innocent cause. He shall not do it again, if I can help it; I'll expose him! Sam! Where's my servant
Here you are, Sir
Here's your servant, Sir. Proud o' the title, as the living skellinton said, ven they show'd him
Follow me instantly
Tupman, if I stay at Bury, you can join me there, when I write. Till then, good-bye
It's all very fine to look at, but slow going, over a heavy field, is better than warm work like that, upon a dusty road, after all
Delightful prospect, Sam
Beats the chimbley-pots, Sir
I suppose you have hardly seen anything but chimney-pots and bricks and mortar all your life, Sam
I worn't always a boots, sir
I wos a vaginer's boy, once
When was that
When I wos first pitched neck and crop into the world, to play at leap-frog with its troubles
You are quite a philosopher, Sam
It runs in the family, I b'lieve, sir
My father's wery much in that line now. If my mother-in-law blows him up, he whistles. She flies in a passion, and breaks his pipe; he steps out, and gets another. Then she screams wery loud, and falls into 'sterics; and he smokes wery comfortably till she comes to agin. That's philosophy, Sir, ain't it
A very good substitute for it, at all events
It must have been of great service to you, in the course of your rambling life, Sam
Service, sir
You may say that. Arter I run away from the carrier, and afore I took up with the vaginer, I had unfurnished lodgin's for a fortnight
Unfurnished lodgings
Yes -- the dry arches of Waterloo Bridge. Fine sleeping-place -- vithin ten minutes' walk of all the public offices -- only if there is any objection to it, it is that the sitivation's rayther too airy. I see some queer sights there
Ah, I suppose you did
Sights, sir
ud penetrate your benevolent heart, and come out on the other side. You don't see the reg'lar wagrants there; trust 'em, they knows better than that. Young beggars, male and female, as hasn't made a rise in their profession, takes up their quarters there sometimes; but it's generally the worn-out, starving, houseless creeturs as roll themselves in the dark corners o' them lonesome places -- poor creeturs as ain't up to the twopenny rope
And pray, Sam, what is the twopenny rope
The twopenny rope, sir
is just a cheap lodgin' house, where the beds is twopence a night
What do they call a bed a rope for
Bless your innocence, sir, that ain't it
bout six foot apart, and three from the floor, which goes right down the room; and the beds are made of slips of coarse sacking, stretched across 'em
Well
Well
Is this Bury St. Edmunds
It is
And this
Is the Angel! We alight here, Sam. But some caution is necessary. Order a private room, and do not mention my name. You understand
Right as a trivet, sir
Now, Sam
the first thing to be done is to --' 'Order dinner, Sir
Ah, so it is
You are right, Sam
And if I might adwise, Sir
I think you are right, Sam
But I must first ascertain that he is in the house, and not likely to go away
Leave that to me, Sir
Let me order you a snug little dinner, and make my inquiries below while it's a-getting ready; I could worm ev'ry secret out O' the boots's heart, in five minutes, Sir
Do so
Now, sir
How do you know that
Bless your heart, sir, servants always do
Oh, ah, I forgot that
Well
Then you can arrange what's best to be done, sir, and we can act accordingly
un to look at, you are
un
How are you, governor
I am happy to say, I am pretty well, Sir
I hope you are the same, Sir
un
How was it you worn't one of us, last night
You seem one of the jolly sort -- looks as conwivial as a live trout in a lime basket
I was out last night with my master
What's his name
Fitz-Marshall
Give us your hand
I should like to know you. I like your appearance, old fellow
Well, that is very strange
I like yours so much, that I wanted to speak to you, from the very first moment I saw you under the pump
Did you though
Upon my word. Now, isn't that curious
Wery sing'ler
What's your name, my patriarch
Job
And a wery good name it is; only one I know that ain't got a nickname to it. What's the other name
Trotter
What is yours
And what sort of a place have you got
Bad
very bad
You don't mean that
I do, indeed. Worse than that, my master's going to be married
No
Yes; and worse than that, too, he's going to run away with an immense rich heiress, from boarding-school
What a dragon
It's some boarding-school in this town, I suppose, ain't it
No, no
that's not to be told to everybody. That is a secret -- a great secret, Mr. Walker
And so it's a secret
I should rather suspect it was
i suppose your mas'r's wery rich
Ah
that's the game, is it
Well, and don't you think, old feller
that if you let your master take in this here young lady, you're a precious rascal
I know that
I know that, and that's what it is that preys upon my mind. But what am I to do
Do
di-wulge to the missis, and give up your master
Who'd believe me
The young lady's considered the very picture of innocence and discretion. She'd deny it, and so would my master. Who'd believe me? I should lose my place, and get indicted for a conspiracy, or some such thing; that's all I should take by my motion
There's somethin' in that
there's somethin' in that
If I knew any respectable gentleman who would take the matter up
I might have some hope of preventing the elopement; but there's the same difficulty, Mr. Walker, just the same. I know no gentleman in this strange place; and ten to one if I did, whether he would believe my story
Come this way
My mas'r's the man you want, I see
I am very sorry to betray my master, sir
The feeling does you a great deal of honour
but it is your duty, nevertheless
I know it is my duty, Sir
We should all try to discharge our duty, Sir, and I humbly endeavour to discharge mine, Sir; but it is a hard trial to betray a master, Sir, whose clothes you wear, and whose bread you eat, even though he is a scoundrel, Sir
You are a very good fellow
an honest fellow
Come, come
Sam
I am sorry to find that you have so little respect for this young man's feelings
His feelin's is all wery well, Sir
ere reflection; and for the present just put that bit of pink gingham into your pocket. 'Tain't so handsome that you need keep waving it about, as if you was a tight-rope dancer
My man is in the right
although his mode of expressing his opinion is somewhat homely, and occasionally incomprehensible
He is, sir, very right
and I will give way no longer
Very well
Now, where is this boarding-school
It is a large, old, red brick house, just outside the town, Sir
And when
when is this villainous design to be carried into execution -- when is this elopement to take place
To-night, Sir
To-night
This very night, sir
That is what alarms me so much
Instant measures must be taken
I will see the lady who keeps the establishment immediately
I beg your pardon, Sir
but that course of proceeding will never do
Why not
My master, sir, is a very artful man
I know he is
And he has so wound himself round the old lady's heart, Sir
that she would believe nothing to his prejudice, if you went down on your bare knees, and swore it; especially as you have no proof but the word of a servant, who, for anything she knows (and my master would be sure to say so), was discharged for some fault, and does this in revenge
What had better be done, then
Nothing but taking him in the very act of eloping, will convince the old lady, sir
All them old cats WILL run their heads agin milestones
But this taking him in the very act of elopement, would be a very difficult thing to accomplish, I fear
I don't know, sir
I think it might be very easily done
How
Why
Well
Well, sir, I have been thinking that if you were in waiting in the garden behind, alone
Alone
Why alone
I thought it very natural
that the old lady wouldn't like such an unpleasant discovery to be made before more persons than can possibly be helped. The young lady, too, sir -- consider her feelings
You are very right
The consideration evinces your delicacy of feeling. Go on; you are very right
Don't distress yourself on that account
if he had one grain of the delicacy of feeling which distinguishes you, humble as your station is, I should have some hopes of him
I never see such a feller
Blessed if I don't think he's got a main in his head as is always turned on
Sam
hold your tongue
Wery well, sir
I don't like this plan
Why cannot I communicate with the young lady's friends
Because they live one hundred miles from here, sir
That's a clincher
Then this garden
How am I to get into it
The wall is very low, sir, and your servant will give you a leg up
My servant will give me a leg up
You will be sure to be near this door that you speak of
You cannot mistake it, Sir; it's the only one that opens into the garden. Tap at it when you hear the clock strike, and I will open it instantly
I don't like the plan
but as I see no other, and as the happiness of this young lady's whole life is at stake, I adopt it. I shall be sure to be there
What is the name of the house
Westgate House, Sir. You turn a little to the right when you get to the end of the town; it stands by itself, some little distance off the high road, with the name on a brass plate on the gate
I know it
I observed it once before, when I was in this town. You may depend upon me
You're a fine fellow
There is no fear of my forgetting it, sir
I say
not a bad notion that 'ere crying. I'd cry like a rain-water spout in a shower on such good terms. How do you do it
It comes from the heart, Mr. Walker
Good-morning, sir
You're a soft customer, you are; we've got it all out o' you, anyhow
You will return to the inn, Sam, when you have assisted me over
Wery well, Sir
And you will sit up, till I return
Take hold of my leg; and, when I say "Over," raise me gently
All right, sir
Over
I have not hurt MYSELF, Sam, certainly
but I rather think that YOU have hurt me
I hope not, Sir
Never mind
it's nothing but a few scratches. Go away, or we shall be overheard
Good-bye, Sir
Good-bye
That's the time
It must have been the cat, Sarah
Puss, puss, puss,-- tit, tit, tit
This is very curious
They are sitting up beyond their usual hour, I suppose. Extremely unfortunate, that they should have chosen this night, of all others, for such a purpose -- exceedingly
What a dreadful situation
Who's there
That's not Job
It's a woman
Who's there
Who's there
Lor! I am so frightened
Cook
cook, why don't you go a little way into the garden
Please, ma'am, I don't like
Lor, what a stupid thing that cook is
Cook
don't answer me, if you please. I insist upon your looking into the garden immediately
a shame
Do you hear, cook
Don't you hear your missis, cook
What an impudent thing that cook is
What is the matter with Miss Smithers
Lor, Miss Smithers, dear
Oh, the man -- the man -- behind the door
Ladies -- dear ladies
Oh. he says we're dear
Oh, the wretch
Ladies
Hear me. I am no robber. I want the lady of the house
Oh, what a ferocious monster
He wants Miss Tomkins
Ring the alarm bell, somebody
Don't -- don't
Look at me. Do I look like a robber! My dear ladies -- you may bind me hand and leg, or lock me up in a closet, if you like. Only hear what I have got to say -- only hear me
How did you come in our garden
Call the lady of the house, and I'll tell her everything
Call her -- only be quiet, and call her, and you shall hear everything
What did you do in my garden, man
I came to warn you that one of your young ladies was going to elope to-night
Elope
Who with
Your friend, Mr. Charles Fitz-Marshall
MY friend! I don't know any such person
Well, Mr. Jingle, then
I never heard the name in my life
Then, I have been deceived, and deluded
I have been the victim of a conspiracy -- a foul and base conspiracy. Send to the Angel, my dear ma'am, if you don't believe me. Send to the Angel for Mr. Pickwick's manservant, I implore you, ma'am
He must be respectable -- he keeps a manservant
It's my opinion, Miss Tomkins
that his manservant keeps him, I think he's a madman, Miss Tomkins, and the other's his keeper
I think you are very right, Miss Gwynn
Let two of the servants repair to the Angel, and let the others remain here, to protect us
My dear friend
my dear friend, pray, for Heaven's sake, explain to this lady the unfortunate and dreadful situation in which I am placed. You must have heard it from my servant; say, at all events, my dear fellow, that I am neither a robber nor a madman
I have said so, my dear friend. I have said so already
And whoever says, or has said, he is
says that which is not the truth, but so far from it, on the contrary, quite the rewerse. And if there's any number o' men on these here premises as has said so, I shall be wery happy to give 'em all a wery convincing proof o' their being mistaken, in this here wery room, if these wery respectable ladies 'll have the goodness to retire, and order 'em up, one at a time
How did you come here
Trundle and I came down here, for some good shooting on the first
We arrived to-night, and were astonished to hear from your servant that you were here too. But I am glad you are
I am glad you are. We shall have a jovial party on the first, and we'll give Winkle another chance -- eh, old boy
Sam
Sir
Sam
Sir
Where is that Trotter
Job, sir
Yes. 'Gone, sir
With his master, I suppose
Friend or master, or whatever he is, he's gone with him
There's a pair on 'em, sir
Jingle suspected my design, and set that fellow on you, with this story, I suppose
Just that, sir
It was all false, of course
All, sir
Reg'lar do, sir; artful dodge
I don't think he'll escape us quite so easily the next time, Sam
I don't think he will, Sir
Whenever I meet that Jingle again, wherever it is
I'll inflict personal chastisement on him, in addition to the exposure he so richly merits. I will, or my name is not Pickwick
And venever I catches hold o' that there melan-cholly chap with the black hair
if I don't bring some real water into his eyes, for once in a way, my name ain't Weller. Good- night, Sir
There was a very snug little party, consisting of Maria Lobbs and her cousin Kate, and three or four romping, good-humoured, rosy-cheeked girls. Nathaniel Pipkin had ocular demonstration of the fact, that the rumours of old Lobbs's treasures were not exaggerated. There were the real solid silver teapot, cream-ewer, and sugar-basin, on the table, and real silver spoons to stir the tea with, and real china cups to drink it out of, and plates of the same, to hold the cakes and toast in. The only eye-sore in the whole place was another cousin of Maria Lobbs's, and a brother of Kate, whom Maria Lobbs called "Henry," and who seemed to keep Maria Lobbs all to himself, up in one corner of the table. It's a delightful thing to see affection in families, but it may be carried rather too far, and Nathaniel Pipkin could not help thinking that Maria Lobbs must be very particularly fond of her relations, if she paid as much attention to all of them as to this individual cousin. After tea, too, when the wicked little cousin proposed a game at blind man's buff, it somehow or other happened that Nathaniel Pipkin was nearly always blind, and whenever he laid his hand upon the male cousin, he was sure to find that Maria Lobbs was not far off. And though the wicked little cousin and the other girls pinched him, and pulled his hair, and pushed chairs in his way, and all sorts of things, Maria Lobbs never seemed to come near him at all; and once -- once -- Nathaniel Pipkin could have sworn he heard the sound of a kiss, followed by a faint remonstrance from Maria Lobbs, and a half- suppressed laugh from her female friends. All this was odd -- very odd -- and there is no saying what Nathaniel Pipkin might or might not have done, in consequence, if his thoughts had not been suddenly directed into a new channel. 'The circumstance which directed his thoughts into a new channel was a loud knocking at the street door, and the person who made this loud knocking at the street door was no other than old Lobbs himself, who had unexpectedly returned, and was hammering away, like a coffin-maker; for he wanted his supper. The alarming intelligence was no sooner communicated by the bony apprentice with the thin legs, than the girls tripped upstairs to Maria Lobbs's bedroom, and the male cousin and Nathaniel Pipkin were thrust into a couple of closets in the sitting-room, for want of any better places of concealment; and when Maria Lobbs and the wicked little cousin had stowed them away, and put the room to rights, they opened the street door to old Lobbs, who had never left off knocking since he first began. 

'Now it did unfortunately happen that old Lobbs being very hungry was monstrous cross. Nathaniel Pipkin could hear him growling away like an old mastiff with a sore throat; and whenever the unfortunate apprentice with the thin legs came into the room, so surely did old Lobbs commence swearing at him in a most Saracenic and ferocious manner, though apparently with no other end or object than that of easing his bosom by the discharge of a few superfluous oaths. At length some supper, which had been warming up, was placed on the table, and then old Lobbs fell to, in regular style; and having made clear work of it in no time, kissed his daughter, and demanded his pipe. 

'Nature had placed Nathaniel Pipkin's knees in very close juxtaposition, but when he heard old Lobbs demand his pipe, they knocked together, as if they were going to reduce each other to powder; for, depending from a couple of hooks, in the very closet in which he stood, was a large, brown-stemmed, silver- bowled pipe, which pipe he himself had seen in the mouth of old Lobbs, regularly every afternoon and evening, for the last five years. The two girls went downstairs for the pipe, and upstairs for the pipe, and everywhere but where they knew the pipe was, and old Lobbs stormed away meanwhile, in the most wonderful manner. At last he thought of the closet, and walked up to it. It was of no use a little man like Nathaniel Pipkin pulling the door inwards, when a great strong fellow like old Lobbs was pulling it outwards. Old Lobbs gave it one tug, and open it flew, disclosing Nathaniel Pipkin standing bolt upright inside, and shaking with apprehension from head to foot. Bless us! what an appalling look old Lobbs gave him, as he dragged him out by the collar, and held him at arm's length. 

' "Why, what the devil do you want here?" said old Lobbs, in a fearful voice. 

'Nathaniel Pipkin could make no reply, so old Lobbs shook him backwards and forwards, for two or three minutes, by way of arranging his ideas for him. 

' "What do you want here?" roared Lobbs; "I suppose you have come after my daughter, now!" 

'Old Lobbs merely said this as a sneer: for he did not believe that mortal presumption could have carried Nathaniel Pipkin so far. What was his indignation, when that poor man replied -- ' "Yes, I did, Mr. Lobbs, I did come after your daughter. I love her, Mr. Lobbs." 

' "Why, you snivelling, wry-faced, puny villain," gasped old Lobbs, paralysed by the atrocious confession; "what do you mean by that? Say this to my face! Damme, I'll throttle you!" 

'It is by no means improbable that old Lobbs would have carried his threat into execution, in the excess of his rage, if his arm had not been stayed by a very unexpected apparition: to wit, the male cousin, who, stepping out of his closet, and walking up to old Lobbs, said -- 

' "I cannot allow this harmless person, Sir, who has been asked here, in some girlish frolic, to take upon himself, in a very noble manner, the fault (if fault it is) which I am guilty of, and am ready to avow. I love your daughter, sir; and I came here for the purpose of meeting her." 

'Old Lobbs opened his eyes very wide at this, but not wider than Nathaniel Pipkin. 

' "You did?" said Lobbs, at last finding breath to speak. 

' "I did." 

' "And I forbade you this house, long ago." 

' "You did, or I should not have been here, clandestinely, to-night." 

'I am sorry to record it of old Lobbs, but I think he would have struck the cousin, if his pretty daughter, with her bright eyes swimming in tears, had not clung to his arm. 

' "Don't stop him, Maria," said the young man; "if he has the will to strike me, let him. I would not hurt a hair of his gray head, for the riches of the world." 

'The old man cast down his eyes at this reproof, and they met those of his daughter. I have hinted once or twice before, that they were very bright eyes, and, though they were tearful now, their influence was by no means lessened. Old Lobbs turned his head away, as if to avoid being persuaded by them, when, as fortune would have it, he encountered the face of the wicked little cousin, who, half afraid for her brother, and half laughing at Nathaniel Pipkin, presented as bewitching an expression of countenance, with a touch of slyness in it, too, as any man, old or young, need look upon. She drew her arm coaxingly through the old man's, and whispered something in his ear; and do what he would, old Lobbs couldn't help breaking out into a smile, while a tear stole down his cheek at the same time. 'Five minutes after this, the girls were brought down from the bedroom with a great deal of giggling and modesty; and while the young people were making themselves perfectly happy, old Lobbs got down the pipe, and smoked it; and it was a remarkable circumstance about that particular pipe of tobacco, that it was the most soothing and delightful one he ever smoked. 

'Nathaniel Pipkin thought it best to keep his own counsel, and by so doing gradually rose into high favour with old Lobbs. who taught him to smoke in time; and they used to sit out in the garden on the fine evenings, for many years afterwards, smoking and drinking in great state. He soon recovered the effects of his attachment, for we find his name in the parish register, as a witness to the marriage of Maria Lobbs to her cousin; and it also appears, by reference to other documents, that on the night of the wedding he was incarcerated in the village cage, for having, in a state of extreme intoxication, committed sundry excesses in the streets, in all of which he was aided and abetted by the bony apprentice with the thin legs
Serpent
Sir
Serpent, Sir
I said, serpent, sir -- make the most of it
serpent
Serpent, Sir! Serpent, Mr. Pott! What can you mean, Sir?-- this is pleasantry
Pleasantry, sir
Pleasantry, sir!-- But -- no, I will be calm; I will be calm, Sir
My dear sir
DEAR Sir
How dare you address me, as dear Sir, Sir? How dare you look me in the face and do it, sir
Well, Sir, if you come to that
how dare you look me in the face, and call me a serpent, sir
Because you are one
Prove it, Sir
Prove it
LINES TO A BRASS POT '"Oh Pott! if you'd known How false she'd have grown, When you heard the marriage bells tinkle; You'd have done then, I vow, What you cannot help now, And handed her over to W
What
what rhymes to "tinkle," villain
What rhymes to tinkle
What rhymes to tinkle? Why, Winkle, I should conceive
Back, ma'am -- back
Take his hand before my very face
Mr. P
Wretched woman, look here
Look here, ma'am --"Lines to a Brass Pot." "Brass Pot"; that's me, ma'am. "False SHE'D have grown"; that's you, ma'am -- you
Upon my word, Sir
Upon my word, Sir
Upon my word, sir
My dear
I didn't say I believed it;-- I
Mrs. Pott, let me entreat you, my dear ma'am, to compose yourself
My dear
I'm very sorry. If you won't consider your own health, consider me, my dear. We shall have a crowd round the house
Oh, my dear, dear mistress
Oh, my dear mistress, what is the matter
Your master -- your brutal master
It's a shame
I know he'll be the death on you, ma'am. Poor dear thing
Oh, don't leave me -- don't leave me, Goodwin
You're the only person that's kind to me, Goodwin
Never, ma'am -- never
Goodwin
Ma'am
If you only knew how I have loved that man --' 'Don't distress yourself by recollecting it, ma'am
And now
now, after all, to be treated in this way; to be reproached and insulted in the presence of a third party, and that party almost a stranger. But I will not submit to it! Goodwin
my brother, the lieutenant, shall interfere. I'll be separated, Goodwin
It would certainly serve him right, ma'am
My dear, will you hear me
My dear
do not give way to these sensitive feelings. I never believed that the paragraph had any foundation, my dear -- impossible. I was only angry, my dear -- I may say outrageous -- with the INDEPENDENT people for daring to insert it; that's all
And what steps, sir, do you mean to take to obtain redress
Oh, Goodwin
does he mean to horsewhip the editor of the INDEPENDENT -- does he, Goodwin
Hush, hush, ma'am; pray keep yourself quiet
I dare say he will, if you wish it, ma'am
Certainly
Of course I shall
When, Goodwin -- when
Immediately, of course
before the day is out
Oh, Goodwin
it's the only way of meeting the slander, and setting me right with the world
Certainly, ma'am
No man as is a man, ma'am, could refuse to do it
You will not allow this base newspaper slander to shorten your stay here, Mr. Winkle
I hope not
I hope not
You are very good
but a letter has been received from Mr. Pickwick -- so I learn by a note from Mr. Tupman, which was brought up to my bedroom door, this morning -- in which he requests us to join him at Bury to-day; and we are to leave by the coach at noon
But you will come back
Oh, certainly
You are quite sure
Quite
If he ever comes back, I'll poison him
If I ever do come back, and mix myself up with these people again
I shall deserve to be horsewhipped myself -- that's all
How are you
Don't hang back, or look sentimental about it; it can't be helped, old fellow. For her sake, I wish you'd had her; for your own, I'm very glad you have not. A young fellow like you will do better one of these days, eh
Well, and how are you, my fine fellows
I have just been telling Pickwick that we must have you all down at Christmas. We're going to have a wedding -- a real wedding this time
A wedding
Yes, a wedding. But don't be frightened
it's only Trundle there, and Bella
Oh, is that all
Give you joy, Sir. How is Joe
Very well
Sleepy as ever
And your mother, and the clergyman, and all of 'em
Quite well
Where
where is -- SHE, Sir
SHE
Do you mean my single relative -- eh
Oh, she's gone away
She's living at a relation's, far enough off. She couldn't bear to see the girls, so I let her go. But come! Here's the dinner. You must be hungry after your ride. I am, without any ride at all; so let us fall to
And the attack of rheumatism which I caught in that garden
renders me lame at this moment
I, too, have had something of an adventure
Is it not a wonderful circumstance
that we seem destined to enter no man's house without involving him in some degree of trouble? Does it not, I ask, bespeak the indiscretion, or, worse than that, the blackness of heart -- that I should say so!-- of my followers, that, beneath whatever roof they locate, they disturb the peace of mind and happiness of some confiding female? Is it not, I say
What have you there, Sam
Called at the post-office just now, and found this here letter, as has laid there for two days
It's sealed vith a vafer, and directed in round hand
I don't know this hand
Mercy on us! what's this? It must be a jest; it -- it -- can't be true
What's the matter
Nobody dead, is there
Dodson and Fogg
Bardell and Pickwick
Peace of mind and happiness of confiding females
It's a conspiracy
a base conspiracy between these two grasping attorneys, Dodson and Fogg. Mrs. Bardell would never do it;-- she hasn't the heart to do it;-- she hasn't the case to do it. Ridiculous -- ridiculous
Of her heart
you should certainly be the best judge. I don't wish to discourage you, but I should certainly say that, of her case, Dodson and Fogg are far better judges than any of us can be
It's a vile attempt to extort money
I hope it is
Who ever heard me address her in any way but that in which a lodger would address his landlady
Who ever saw me with her? Not even my friends here
Except on one occasion
Ah
Well, that's important. There was nothing suspicious then, I suppose
Why
there was nothing suspicious; but -- I don't know how it happened, mind -- she certainly was reclining in his arms
Gracious powers
what a dreadful instance of the force of circumstances! So she was -- so she was
And our friend was soothing her anguish
So I was
I don't deny it. So I was
Hollo
for a case in which there's nothing suspicious, this looks rather queer -- eh, Pickwick? Ah, sly dog -- sly dog
What a dreadful conjunction of appearances
Winkle -- Tupman -- I beg your pardon for the observations I made just now. We are all the victims of circumstances, and I the greatest
I'll have it explained, though
I'll see this Dodson and Fogg! I'll go to London to-morrow
Not to-morrow
you're too lame
Well, then, next day
Next day is the first of September, and you're pledged to ride out with us, as far as Sir Geoffrey Manning's grounds at all events, and to meet us at lunch, if you don't take the field
Well, then, the day after
Thursday.-- Sam
Sir
Take two places outside to London, on Thursday morning, for yourself and me
Wery well, Sir
Rum feller, the hemperor
uns howsoever, as is such steady goers to look at. I didn't think he'd ha' done it, though -- I didn't think he'd ha' done it
I say
they don't suppose we're going to kill game enough to fill those bags, do they
Fill them
Bless you, yes! You shall fill one, and I the other; and when we've done with them, the pockets of our shooting-jackets will hold as much more
Hi, Juno, lass-hi, old girl; down, Daph, down
Sir Geoffrey still in Scotland, of course, Martin
My friends are not much in the way of this sort of thing yet, Martin
Live and learn, you know. They'll be good shots one of these days. I beg my friend Winkle's pardon, though; he has had some practice
You mustn't handle your piece in that 'ere way, when you come to have the charge in it, Sir
Hollo
Hollo, sir! if you comes it this vay, you'll fill one o' them bags, and something to spare, at one fire
Where did you tell the boy to meet us with the snack, Martin
That's not Sir Geoffrey's land, is it
No, Sir; but it's close by it. It's Captain Boldwig's land; but there'll be nobody to interrupt us, and there's a fine bit of turf there
Very well
Now the sooner we're off the better. Will you join us at twelve, then, Pickwick
Why, I suppose I must
Ain't the gentleman a shot, Sir
No
and he's lame besides
I should very much like to go
very much
There's a barrow t'other side the hedge
If the gentleman's servant would wheel along the paths, he could keep nigh us, and we could lift it over the stiles, and that
The wery thing
The wery thing. Well said, Smallcheek; I'll have it out in a minute
Stop, Sam
What's the matter now
I won't suffer this barrow to be moved another step
unless Winkle carries that gun of his in a different manner
How AM I to carry it
Carry it with the muzzle to the ground
It's so unsportsmanlike
I don't care whether it's unsportsmanlike or not
I am not going to be shot in a wheel-barrow, for the sake of appearances, to please anybody
I know the gentleman'll put that 'ere charge into somebody afore he's done
Well, well -- I don't mind
there
Anythin' for a quiet life
Stop
What now
That gun of Tupman's is not safe: I know it isn't
Eh? What! not safe
Not as you are carrying it
I am very sorry to make any further objection, but I cannot consent to go on, unless you carry it as Winkle does his
I think you had better, sir
or you're quite as likely to lodge the charge in yourself as in anything else
What's the matter with the dogs' legs
How queer they're standing
Hush, can't you
Don't you see, they're making a point
Making a point
Making a point! What are they pointing at
Keep your eyes open
Now then
Where are they
Where are they? Tell me when to fire. Where are they -- where are they
Where are they
Why, here they are
No, no; I mean the others
Far enough off, by this time
We shall very likely be up with another covey in five minutes
If the gentleman begins to fire now, perhaps he'll just get the shot out of the barrel by the time they rise
Ha! ha! ha
Sam
Sir
Don't laugh
Certainly not, Sir
Bravo, old fellow
you fired that time, at all events
Oh, yes
I let it off
Well done. You'll hit something next time, if you look sharp. Very easy, ain't it
Yes, it's very easy
How it hurts one's shoulder, though. It nearly knocked me backwards. I had no idea these small firearms kicked so
Ah
you'll get used to it in time. Now then -- all ready -- all right with the barrow there
All right, Sir
Come along, then
Hold hard, Sir
Aye, aye
Keep that barrow back now
All right, sir
Now, Winkle
follow me softly, and don't be too late this time
Never fear
Are they pointing
No, no; not now. Quietly now, quietly
Why, what on earth did you do that for
I never saw such a gun in my life
It goes off of its own accord. It WILL do it
Will do it
I wish it would kill something of its own accord
It'll do that afore long, Sir
What do you mean by that observation, Sir
Never mind, Sir, never mind
I've no family myself, sir; and this here boy's mother will get something handsome from Sir Geoffrey, if he's killed on his land. Load again, Sir, load again
Take away his gun
Take away his gun, do you hear, somebody
Tupman
you singled out that particular bird
No
no
You did
I saw you do it -- I observed you pick him out -- I noticed you, as you raised your piece to take aim; and I will say this, that the best shot in existence could not have done it more beautifully. You are an older hand at this than I thought you, Tupman; you have been out before
every bullet has its billet
Well
smoking day, isn't it
It is, indeed
Why
pretty hot. It's past twelve, though. You see that green hill there
Certainly
That's the place where we are to lunch; and, by Jove, there's the boy with the basket, punctual as clockwork
So he is
Good boy, that. I'll give him a shilling, presently. Now, then, Sam, wheel away
Hold on, sir
Weal pie
Wery good thing is weal pie, when you know the lady as made it, and is quite sure it ain't kittens; and arter all though, where's the odds, when they're so like weal that the wery piemen themselves don't know the difference
Don't they, Sam
Not they, sir
cording to the demand. And more than that," says he, "I can make a weal a beef-steak, or a beef- steak a kidney, or any one on 'em a mutton, at a minute's notice, just as the market changes, and appetites wary
He must have been a very ingenious young man, that, Sam
Just was, sir
and the pies was beautiful. Tongue --, well that's a wery good thing when it ain't a woman's. Bread -- knuckle o' ham, reg'lar picter -- cold beef in slices, wery good. What's in them stone jars, young touch-and-go
Beer in this one
cold punch in t'other
And a wery good notion of a lunch it is, take it altogether
This is delightful -- thoroughly delightful
So it is -- so it is, old fellow
Come; a glass of punch
With great pleasure
Good
Very good. I'll take another. Cool; very cool. Come, gentlemen
a toast. Our friends at Dingley Dell
I'll tell you what I shall do, to get up my shooting again
I'll put a stuffed partridge on the top of a post, and practise at it, beginning at a short distance, and lengthening it by degrees. I understand it's capital practice
I know a gen'l'man, Sir
as did that, and begun at two yards; but he never tried it on agin; for he blowed the bird right clean away at the first fire, and nobody ever seed a feather on him arterwards
Sam
Sir
Have the goodness to reserve your anecdotes till they are called for
Well, that certainly is most capital cold punch
and the day is extremely warm, and -- Tupman, my dear friend, a glass of punch
With the greatest delight
grounds
Hunt
Yes, Sir
Roll this place to-morrow morning -- do you hear, Hunt
Yes, Sir
And take care that you keep this place in good order -- do you hear, Hunt
Yes, Sir
And remind me to have a board done about trespassers, and spring guns, and all that sort of thing, to keep the common people out. Do you hear, Hunt; do you hear
I'll not forget it, Sir
I beg your pardon, Sir
Well, Wilkins, what's the matter with you
I beg your pardon, sir -- but I think there have been trespassers here to-day
Ha
Yes, sir -- they have been dining here, I think, sir
Why, damn their audacity, so they have
They have actually been devouring their food here. I wish I had the vagabonds here
I wish I had the vagabonds here
Beg your pardon, sir
but
But what? Eh
Who are you, you rascal
What's your name
Cold punch
What
What did he say his name was
Punch, I think, sir
That's his impudence -- that's his confounded impudence
He's only feigning to be asleep now
He's drunk; he's a drunken plebeian. Wheel him away, Wilkins, wheel him away directly
Where shall I wheel him to, sir
Wheel him to the devil
Very well, sir
Stay
Wheel him
wheel him to the pound; and let us see whether he calls himself Punch when he comes to himself. He shall not bully me -- he shall not bully me. Wheel him away
Sam
What's the matter
Here's a game
Where am I
In the pound
How came I here? What was I doing? Where was I brought from
Boldwig! Captain Boldwig
Let me out
Where's my servant? Where are my friends
You ain't got no friends. Hurrah
Run to the justice's
Ah, run avay
un, I'll come back again to-morrow and spile him. Drive on, old feller
I'll give directions for the commencement of an action for false imprisonment against this Captain Boldwig, directly I get to London
We were trespassing, it seems
I don't care
I'll bring the action
No, you won't
I will, by
Why not
Because
because they might turn on some of us, and say we had taken too much cold punch
Come in, can't you
Mr. Dodson or Mr. Fogg at home, sir
Mr. Dodson ain't at home, and Mr. Fogg's particularly engaged
Mr. Dodson ain't at home, and Mr. Fogg's particularly engaged
When will Mr. Dodson be back, sir
Can't say
Will it be long before Mr. Fogg is disengaged, Sir
Don't know
I think I'll wait
That was a game, wasn't it
Devilish good -- devilish good
Tom Cummins was in the chair
while Jack was upstairs sorting the papers, and you two were gone to the stamp-office. Fogg was down here, opening the letters when that chap as we issued the writ against at Camberwell, you know, came in -- what's his name again
Ramsey
Ah, Ramsey -- a precious seedy-looking customer. "Well, sir," says old Fogg, looking at him very fierce -- you know his way -- "well, Sir, have you come to settle?" "Yes, I have, sir," said Ramsey, putting his hand in his pocket, and bringing out the money, "the debt's two pound ten, and the costs three pound five, and here it is, Sir;" and he sighed like bricks, as he lugged out the money, done up in a bit of blotting-paper. Old Fogg looked first at the money, and then at him, and then he coughed in his rum way, so that I knew something was coming. "You don't know there's a declaration filed, which increases the costs materially, I suppose," said Fogg. "You don't say that, sir," said Ramsey, starting back; "the time was only out last night, Sir." "I do say it, though," said Fogg, "my clerk's just gone to file it. Hasn't Mr. Jackson gone to file that declaration in Bullman and Ramsey, Mr. Wicks?" Of course I said yes, and then Fogg coughed again, and looked at Ramsey. "My God!" said Ramsey; "and here have I nearly driven myself mad, scraping this money together, and all to no purpose." "None at all," said Fogg coolly; "so you had better go back and scrape some more together, and bring it here in time." "I can't get it, by God!" said Ramsey, striking the desk with his fist. "Don't bully me, sir," said Fogg, getting into a passion on purpose. "I am not bullying you, sir," said Ramsey. "You are," said Fogg; "get out, sir; get out of this office, Sir, and come back, Sir, when you know how to behave yourself." Well, Ramsey tried to speak, but Fogg wouldn't let him, so he put the money in his pocket, and sneaked out. The door was scarcely shut, when old Fogg turned round to me, with a sweet smile on his face, and drew the declaration out of his coat pocket. "Here, Wicks," says Fogg, "take a cab, and go down to the Temple as quick as you can, and file that. The costs are quite safe, for he's a steady man with a large family, at a salary of five-and-twenty shillings a week, and if he gives us a warrant of attorney, as he must in the end, I know his employers will see it paid; so we may as well get all we can get out of him, Mr. Wicks; it's a Christian act to do it, Mr. Wicks, for with his large family and small income, he'll be all the better for a good lesson against getting into debt -- won't he, Mr. Wicks, won't he?" -- and he smiled so good-naturedly as he went away, that it was delightful to see him. He is a capital man of business
capital, isn't he
Nice men these here, Sir
wery nice notion of fun they has, Sir
I wonder whether Fogg's disengaged now
I'll see
What name shall I tell Mr. Fogg
Pickwick
What did he say his name was
Pickwick
it's the defendant in Bardell and Pickwick
They're a-twiggin' of you, Sir
Twigging of me, Sam
what do you mean by twigging me
Is Mr. Dodson in
Just come in, Sir
Ask him to step here
Yes, sir
Take a seat, sir
there is the paper, sir; my partner will be here directly, and we can converse about this matter, sir
This is Mr. Pickwick
Ah! You are the defendant, Sir, in Bardell and Pickwick
I am, sir
Well, sir
and what do you propose
Ah
what do you propose, Mr Pickwick
Hush, Fogg
let me hear what Mr. Pickwick has to say
I came, gentlemen
I came here, gentlemen, to express the surprise with which I received your letter of the other day, and to inquire what grounds of action you can have against me
Grounds of
Mr. Fogg
I am going to speak
I beg your pardon, Mr. Dodson
For the grounds of action, sir
you will consult your own conscience and your own feelings. We, Sir, we, are guided entirely by the statement of our client. That statement, Sir, may be true, or it may be false; it may be credible, or it may be incredible; but, if it be true, and if it be credible, I do not hesitate to say, Sir, that our grounds of action, Sir, are strong, and not to be shaken. You may be an unfortunate man, Sir, or you may be a designing one; but if I were called upon, as a juryman upon my oath, Sir, to express an opinion of your conduct, Sir, I do not hesitate to assert that I should have but one opinion about it
Most certainly
Well, Sir
you will permit me to assure you that I am a most unfortunate man, so far as this case is concerned
I hope you are, Sir
I trust you may be, Sir. If you are really innocent of what is laid to your charge, you are more unfortunate than I had believed any man could possibly be. What do you say, Mr. Fogg
I say precisely what you say
The writ, Sir, which commences the action
was issued regularly. Mr. Fogg, where is the PRAECIPE book
Here it is
Here is the entry
Middlesex, Capias MARTHA BARDELL, WIDOW, v. SAMUEL PICKWICK. Damages #1500. Dodson &amp; Fogg for the plaintiff, Aug. 28, 1827." All regular, Sir; perfectly
Perfectly
I am to understand, then
that it really is your intention to proceed with this action
Understand, sir!-- that you certainly may
And that the damages are actually laid at fifteen hundred pounds
To which understanding you may add my assurance, that if we could have prevailed upon our client, they would have been laid at treble the amount, sir
I believe Mrs. Bardell specially said, however
that she would not compromise for a farthing less
Unquestionably
As you offer no terms, sir
I had better serve you with a copy of this writ, sir. Here is the original, sir
Very well, gentlemen, very well
you shall hear from my solicitor, gentlemen
We shall be very happy to do so
Very
And before I go, gentlemen
permit me to say, that of all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings
Stay, sir, stay
Mr. Jackson! Mr. Wicks
Sir
I merely want you to hear what this gentleman says
Pray, go on, sir -- disgraceful and rascally proceedings, I think you said
I did
I said, Sir, that of all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings that ever were attempted, this is the most so. I repeat it, sir
You hear that, Mr. Wicks
You won't forget these expressions, Mr. Jackson
Perhaps you would like to call us swindlers, sir
Pray do, Sir, if you feel disposed; now pray do, Sir
I do
You ARE swindlers
Very good
You can hear down there, I hope, Mr. Wicks
Oh, yes, Sir
You had better come up a step or two higher, if you can't
Go on, Sir; do go on. You had better call us thieves, Sir; or perhaps You would like to assault one Of US. Pray do it, Sir, if you would; we will not make the smallest resistance. Pray do it, Sir
You just come away
Battledore and shuttlecock's a wery good game, vhen you ain't the shuttlecock and two lawyers the battledores, in which case it gets too excitin' to be pleasant. Come avay, Sir. If you want to ease your mind by blowing up somebody, come out into the court and blow up me; but it's rayther too expensive work to be carried on here
Sam, I will go immediately to Mr. Perker's
That's just exactly the wery place vere you ought to have gone last night, Sir
I think it is, Sam
I KNOW it is
Well, well, Sam
we will go there at once; but first, as I have been rather ruffled, I should like a glass of brandy-and-water warm, Sam. Where can I have it, Sam
cos there ain't no leg in the middle o' the table, which all the others has, and it's wery inconvenient
Wy, Sammy
Who's that, Sam
Why, I wouldn't ha' believed it, Sir
un
Old one
What old one
My father, sir
How are you, my ancient
Wy, Sammy
Nor more you have, old codger
How's mother-in-law
Wy, I'll tell you what, Sammy
there never was a nicer woman as a widder, than that 'ere second wentur o' mine -- a sweet creetur she was, Sammy; all I can say on her now, is, that as she was such an uncommon pleasant widder, it's a great pity she ever changed her condition. She don't act as a vife, Sammy
Don't she, though
I've done it once too often, Sammy; I've done it once too often. Take example by your father, my boy, and be wery careful o' widders all your life, 'specially if they've kept a public-house, Sammy
Beg your pardon, sir
Not I
Beg your pardon, sir
I hope you've no fault to find with Sammy, Sir
None whatever
Wery glad to hear it, sir
I took a good deal o' pains with his eddication, sir; let him run in the streets when he was wery young, and shift for hisself. It's the only way to make a boy sharp, sir
Rather a dangerous process, I should imagine
And not a wery sure one, neither
I got reg'larly done the other day
No
I did
Yes
T' other's a black-haired chap in mulberry livery, with a wery large head
Yes, yes, he is
Then I know where they are, and that's all about it
they're at Ipswich, safe enough, them two
No
Fact
and I'll tell you how I know it. I work an Ipswich coach now and then for a friend o' mine. I worked down the wery day arter the night as you caught the rheumatic, and at the Black Boy at Chelmsford -- the wery place they'd come to -- I took 'em up, right through to Ipswich, where the man-servant -- him in the mulberries -- told me they was a-goin' to put up for a long time
I'll follow him
we may as well see Ipswich as any other place. I'll follow him
You're quite certain it was them, governor
Quite, Sammy, quite
'em laughing and saying how they'd done old Fireworks
Old who
Old Fireworks, Sir; by which, I've no doubt, they meant you, Sir
old Fireworks
I'll follow him
I shall work down to Ipswich the day arter to-morrow, Sir
from the Bull in Whitechapel; and if you really mean to go, you'd better go with me
So we had
very true; I can write to Bury, and tell them to meet me at Ipswich. We will go with you. But don't hurry away, Mr. Weller; won't you take anything
You're wery good, Sir
perhaps a small glass of brandy to drink your health, and success to Sammy, Sir, wouldn't be amiss
Certainly not
A glass of brandy here
Well done, father
take care, old fellow, or you'll have a touch of your old complaint, the gout
I've found a sov'rin' cure for that, Sammy
A sovereign cure for the gout
what is it
The gout, Sir
the gout is a complaint as arises from too much ease and comfort. If ever you're attacked with the gout, sir, jist you marry a widder as has got a good loud woice, with a decent notion of usin' it, and you'll never have the gout agin. It's a capital prescription, sir. I takes it reg'lar, and I can warrant it to drive away any illness as is caused by too much jollity
Well, what do you think of what your father says, Sam
Think, Sir
why, I think he's the wictim o' connubiality, as Blue Beard's domestic chaplain said, vith a tear of pity, ven he buried him
This is pleasant, Sam
I shouldn't lose an hour in seeing him; I shall not be able to get one wink of sleep to-night, I know, unless I have the satisfaction of reflecting that I have confided this matter to a professional man
Here's an old 'ooman comin' upstairs, sir
p'raps she knows where we can find somebody. Hollo, old lady, vere's Mr. Perker's people
Mr. Perker's people
Mr. Perker's people's gone, and I'm a-goin' to do the office out
Are you Mr. Perker's servant
I am Mr. Perker's laundress
Ah
it's a curious circumstance, Sam, that they call the old women in these inns, laundresses. I wonder what's that for
I shouldn't wonder
do you know where I can find Mr. Perker, my good woman
No, I don't
he's out o' town now
That's unfortunate
where's his clerk? Do you know
Yes, I know where he is, but he won't thank me for telling you
I have very particular business with him
Won't it do in the morning
Not so well
Well
if it was anything very particular, I was to say where he was, so I suppose there's no harm in telling. If you just go to the Magpie and Stump, and ask at the bar for Mr. Lowten, they'll show you in to him, and he's Mr. Perker's clerk
stump
Is Mr. Lowten here, ma'am
Yes, he is, Sir
Here, Charley, show the gentleman in to Mr. Lowten
cos' Mr. Lowten's a-singin' a comic song, and he'll put him out. He'll be done directly, Sir
A gentleman to speak to you, Sir
I beg your pardon, Sir
and I am very sorry to disturb the other gentlemen, too, but I come on very particular business; and if you will suffer me to detain you at this end of the room for five minutes, I shall be very much obliged to you
Ah
Dodson and Fogg -- sharp practice theirs -- capital men of business, Dodson and Fogg, sir
Perker ain't in town, and he won't be, neither, before the end of next week; but if you want the action defended, and will leave the copy with me, I can do all that's needful till he comes back
That's exactly what I came here for
If anything particular occurs, you can write to me at the post-office, Ipswich
That's all right
will you join us, for half an hour or so? We are capital company here to-night. There's Samkin and Green's managing- clerk, and Smithers and Price's chancery, and Pimkin and Thomas's out o' doors -- sings a capital song, he does -- and Jack Bamber, and ever so many more. You're come out of the country, I suppose. Would you like to join us
You don't find this sort of thing disagreeable, I hope, sir
Not in the least
I like it very much, although I am no smoker myself
I should be very sorry to say I wasn't
It's board and lodgings to me, is smoke
Mr. Grundy's going to oblige the company with a song
No, he ain't
Why not
Because he can't
You had better say he won't
Well, then, he won't
Won't anybody enliven us
Why don't you enliven us yourself, Mr. Chairman
Hear! hear
Because I only know one song, and I have sung it already, and it's a fine of "glasses round" to sing the same song twice in a night
I have been to-night, gentlemen
I have been to-night, in a place which you all know very well, doubtless, but which I have not been in for some years, and know very little of; I mean Gray's Inn, gentlemen. Curious little nooks in a great place, like London, these old inns are
By Jove
you have hit upon something that one of us, at least, would talk upon for ever. You'll draw old Jack Bamber out; he was never heard to talk about anything else but the inns, and he has lived alone in them till he's half crazy
aha! who was talking about the inns
I was, Sir
I was observing what singular old places they are
YOU
What do YOU know of the time when young men shut themselves up in those lonely rooms, and read and read, hour after hour, and night after night, till their reason wandered beneath their midnight studies; till their mental powers were exhausted; till morning's light brought no freshness or health to them; and they sank beneath the unnatural devotion of their youthful energies to their dry old books? Coming down to a later time, and a very different day, what do YOU know of the gradual sinking beneath consumption, or the quick wasting of fever -- the grand results of "life" and dissipation -- which men have undergone in these same rooms? How many vain pleaders for mercy, do you think, have turned away heart-sick from the lawyer's office, to find a resting-place in the Thames, or a refuge in the jail? They are no ordinary houses, those. There is not a panel in the old wainscotting, but what, if it were endowed with the powers of speech and memory, could start from the wall, and tell its tale of horror -- the romance of life, Sir, the romance of life! Common- place as they may seem now, I tell you they are strange old places, and I would rather hear many a legend with a terrific- sounding name, than the true history of one old set of chambers
Look at them in another light -- their most common-place and least romantic. What fine places of slow torture they are! Think of the needy man who has spent his all, beggared himself, and pinched his friends, to enter the profession, which is destined never to yield him a morsel of bread. The waiting -- the hope -- the disappointment -- the fear -- the misery -- the poverty -- the blight on his hopes, and end to his career -- the suicide perhaps, or the shabby, slipshod drunkard. Am I not right about them
Talk of your German universities
Pooh, pooh! there's romance enough at home without going half a mile for it; only people never think of it
I never thought of the romance of this particular subject before, certainly
To be sure you didn't
of course not. As a friend of mine used to say to me, "What is there in chambers in particular?" "Queer old places," said I. "Not at all," said he. "Lonely," said I. "Not a bit of it," said he. He died one morning of apoplexy, as he was going to open his outer door. Fell with his head in his own letter-box, and there he lay for eighteen months. Everybody thought he'd gone out of town
And how was he found out at last
The benchers determined to have his door broken open, as he hadn't paid any rent for two years. So they did. Forced the lock; and a very dusty skeleton in a blue coat, black knee-shorts, and silks, fell forward in the arms of the porter who opened the door. Queer, that. Rather, perhaps; rather, eh
I know another case
It occurred in Clifford's Inn. Tenant of a top set -- bad character -- shut himself up in his bedroom closet, and took a dose of arsenic. The steward thought he had run away: opened the door, and put a bill up. Another man came, took the chambers, furnished them, and went to live there. Somehow or other he couldn't sleep -- always restless and uncomfortable. "Odd," says he. "I'll make the other room my bedchamber, and this my sitting-room." He made the change, and slept very well at night, but suddenly found that, somehow, he couldn't read in the evening: he got nervous and uncomfortable, and used to be always snuffing his candles and staring about him. "I can't make this out," said he, when he came home from the play one night, and was drinking a glass of cold grog, with his back to the wall, in order that he mightn't be able to fancy there was any one behind him --"I can't make it out," said he; and just then his eyes rested on the little closet that had been always locked up, and a shudder ran through his whole frame from top to toe. "I have felt this strange feeling before," said he, "I cannot help thinking there's something wrong about that closet." He made a strong effort, plucked up his courage, shivered the lock with a blow or two of the poker, opened the door, and there, sure enough, standing bolt upright in the corner, was the last tenant, with a little bottle clasped firmly in his hand, and his face -- well
What strange things these are you tell us of, Sir
Strange
Nonsense; you think them strange, because you know nothing about it. They are funny, but not uncommon
Funny
Yes, funny, are they not
I knew another man -- let me see -- forty years ago now -- who took an old, damp, rotten set of chambers, in one of the most ancient inns, that had been shut up and empty for years and years before. There were lots of old women's stories about the place, and it certainly was very far from being a cheerful one; but he was poor, and the rooms were cheap, and that would have been quite a sufficient reason for him, if they had been ten times worse than they really were. He was obliged to take some mouldering fixtures that were on the place, and, among the rest, was a great lumbering wooden press for papers, with large glass doors, and a green curtain inside; a pretty useless thing for him, for he had no papers to put in it; and as to his clothes, he carried them about with him, and that wasn't very hard work, either. Well, he had moved in all his furniture -- it wasn't quite a truck- full -- and had sprinkled it about the room, so as to make the four chairs look as much like a dozen as possible, and was sitting down before the fire at night, drinking the first glass of two gallons of whisky he had ordered on credit, wondering whether it would ever be paid for, and if so, in how many years' time, when his eyes encountered the glass doors of the wooden press. "Ah," says he, "if I hadn't been obliged to take that ugly article at the old broker's valuation, I might have got something comfortable for the money. I'll tell you what it is, old fellow," he said, speaking aloud to the press, having nothing else to speak to, "if it wouldn't cost more to break up your old carcass, than it would ever be worth afterward, I'd have a fire out of you in less than no time." He had hardly spoken the words, when a sound resembling a faint groan, appeared to issue from the interior of the case. It startled him at first, but thinking, on a moment's reflection, that it must be some young fellow in the next chamber, who had been dining out, he put his feet on the fender, and raised the poker to stir the fire. At that moment, the sound was repeated; and one of the glass doors slowly opening, disclosed a pale and emaciated figure in soiled and worn apparel, standing erect in the press. The figure was tall and thin, and the countenance expressive of care and anxiety; but there was something in the hue of the skin, and gaunt and unearthly appearance of the whole form, which no being of this world was ever seen to wear. "Who are you?" said the new tenant, turning very pale; poising the poker in his hand, however, and taking a very decent aim at the countenance of the figure. "Who are you?" "Don't throw that poker at me," replied the form; "if you hurled it with ever so sure an aim, it would pass through me, without resistance, and expend its force on the wood behind. I am a spirit." "And pray, what do you want here?" faltered the tenant. "In this room," replied the apparition, "my worldly ruin was worked, and I and my children beggared. In this press, the papers in a long, long suit, which accumulated for years, were deposited. In this room, when I had died of grief, and long-deferred hope, two wily harpies divided the wealth for which I had contested during a wretched existence, and of which, at last, not one farthing was left for my unhappy descendants. I terrified them from the spot, and since that day have prowled by night -- the only period at which I can revisit the earth -- about the scenes of my long-protracted misery. This apartment is mine: leave it to me." "If you insist upon making your appearance here," said the tenant, who had had time to collect his presence of mind during this prosy statement of the ghost's, "I shall give up possession with the greatest pleasure; but I should like to ask you one question, if you will allow me." "Say on," said the apparition sternly. "Well," said the tenant, "I don't apply the observation personally to you, because it is equally applicable to most of the ghosts I ever heard of; but it does appear to me somewhat inconsistent, that when you have an opportunity of visiting the fairest spots of earth -- for I suppose space is nothing to you -- you should always return exactly to the very places where you have been most miserable." "Egad, that's very true; I never thought of that before," said the ghost. "You see, Sir," pursued the tenant, "this is a very uncomfortable room. From the appearance of that press, I should be disposed to say that it is not wholly free from bugs; and I really think you might find much more comfortable quarters: to say nothing of the climate of London, which is extremely disagreeable." "You are very right, Sir," said the ghost politely, "it never struck me till now; I'll try change of air directly"-- and, in fact, he began to vanish as he spoke; his legs, indeed, had quite disappeared. "And if, Sir," said the tenant, calling after him, "if you WOULD have the goodness to suggest to the other ladies and gentlemen who are now engaged in haunting old empty houses, that they might be much more comfortable elsewhere, you will confer a very great benefit on society." "I will," replied the ghost; "we must be dull fellows -- very dull fellows, indeed; I can't imagine how we can have been so stupid." With these words, the spirit disappeared; and what is rather remarkable
he never came back again
That ain't bad, if it's true
IF
I suppose
he'll say next, that my story about the queer client we had, when I was in an attorney's office, is not true either -- I shouldn't wonder
I shan't venture to say anything at all about it, seeing that I never heard the story
I wish you would repeat it, Sir
Ah, do
nobody has heard it but me, and I have nearly forgotten it
It matters little
Beneath a plain gravestone, in one of the most peaceful and secluded churchyards in Kent, where wild flowers mingle with the grass, and the soft landscape around forms the fairest spot in the garden of England, lie the bones of the young mother and her gentle child. But the ashes of the father do not mingle with theirs; nor, from that night forward, did the attorney ever gain the remotest clue to the subsequent history of his queer client
That 'ere your governor's luggage, Sammy
You might ha' made a worser guess than that, old feller
The governor hisself'll be down here presently
He's a-cabbin' it, I suppose
Yes, he's a havin' two mile o' danger at eight-pence
Queer, Sammy, queer
She's been gettin' rayther in the Methodistical order lately, Sammy; and she is uncommon pious, to be sure. She's too good a creetur for me, Sammy. I feel I don't deserve her
Ah
that's wery self-denyin' o' you
Wery
She's got hold o' some inwention for grown-up people being born again, Sammy -- the new birth, I think they calls it. I should wery much like to see that system in haction, Sammy. I should wery much like to see your mother-in-law born again. Wouldn't I put her out to nurse
What do you think them women does t'other day
What do you think they does, t'other day, Sammy
Don't know
what
Goes and gets up a grand tea drinkin' for a feller they calls their shepherd
Beautiful indeed
Beautiful indeed
Going to Ipswich, Sir
I am
Extraordinary coincidence. So am I
Going outside
Bless my soul, how remarkable -- I am going outside, too
we are positively going together
I am happy in the prospect of your company, Sir
Ah
it's a good thing for both of us, isn't it? Company, you see -- company -- is -- is -- it's a very different thing from solitude -- ain't it
There's no denying that 'ere
That's what I call a self- evident proposition, as the dog's-meat man said, when the housemaid told him he warn't a gentleman
Ah
Friend of yours, sir
Not exactly a friend
The fact is, he is my servant, but I allow him to take a good many liberties; for, between ourselves, I flatter myself he is an original, and I am rather proud of him
Ah
that, you see, is a matter of taste. I am not fond of anything original; I don't like it; don't see the necessity for it. What's your name, sir
Here is my card, sir
Ah
Pickwick; very good. I like to know a man's name, it saves so much trouble. That's my card, sir. Magnus, you will perceive, sir -- Magnus is my name. It's rather a good name, I think, sir
A very good name, indeed
Yes, I think it is
There's a good name before it, too, you will observe. Permit me, sir -- if you hold the card a little slanting, this way, you catch the light upon the up-stroke. There -- Peter Magnus -- sounds well, I think, sir
Very
Curious circumstance about those initials, sir
You will observe -- P.M.-- post meridian. In hasty notes to intimate acquaintance, I sometimes sign myself "Afternoon." It amuses my friends very much, Mr. Pickwick
It is calculated to afford them the highest gratification, I should conceive
coach is ready, if you please
Is all my luggage in
All right, sir
Is the red bag in
All right, Sir
And the striped bag
Fore boot, Sir
And the brown-paper parcel
Under the seat, Sir
And the leather hat-box
They're all in, Sir
Now, will you get up
Excuse me
Excuse me, Mr. Pickwick. I cannot consent to get up, in this state of uncertainty. I am quite satisfied from that man's manner, that the leather hat-box is not in
had come untied
You're given to nervousness, ain't you, Sir
Yes; I always am rather about these little matters
but I am all right now -- quite right
Sammy, help your master up to the box; t'other leg, Sir, that's it; give us your hand, Sir. Up with you. You was a lighter weight when you was a boy, sir
True enough, that, Mr. Weller
Jump up in front, Sammy
'em alone
Not a wery nice neighbourhood, this, Sir
It is not indeed, Sam
It's a wery remarkable circumstance, Sir
that poverty and oysters always seem to go together
I don't understand you, Sam
What I mean, sir
is, that the poorer a place is, the greater call there seems to be for oysters. Look here, sir; here's a oyster-stall to every half-dozen houses. The street's lined vith 'em. Blessed if I don't think that ven a man's wery poor, he rushes out of his lodgings, and eats oysters in reg'lar desperation
To be sure he does
and it's just the same vith pickled salmon
Those are two very remarkable facts, which never occurred to me before
The very first place we stop at, I'll make a note of them
Wery queer life is a pike-keeper's, sir
A what
A pike-keeper
What do you mean by a pike-keeper
Oh
I see. Yes; very curious life. Very uncomfortable
They're all on 'em men as has met vith some disappointment in life
Ay, ay
Yes. Consequence of vich, they retires from the world, and shuts themselves up in pikes; partly with the view of being solitary, and partly to rewenge themselves on mankind by takin' tolls
Dear me
I never knew that before
Fact, Sir
Do you stop here, sir
Do you stop here, sir
I do
Dear me
I never knew anything like these extraordinary coincidences. Why, I stop here too. I hope we dine together
With pleasure
I am not quite certain whether I have any friends here or not, though. Is there any gentleman of the name of Tupman here, waiter
No
Nor any gentleman of the name of Snodgrass
No
Nor Winkle
No
My friends have not arrived to-day, Sir
We will dine alone, then. Show us a private room, waiter
And what do you think -- what DO you think, Mr. Pickwick -- I have come down here for
Upon my word
it is wholly impossible for me to guess; on business, perhaps
Partly right, Sir
but partly wrong at the same time; try again, Mr. Pickwick
Really
I must throw myself on your mercy, to tell me or not, as you may think best; for I should never guess, if I were to try all night
Why, then, he-he-he
what should you think, Mr. Pickwick, if I had come down here to make a proposal, Sir, eh? He, he, he
Think! That you are very likely to succeed
Ah
But do you really think so, Mr. Pickwick? Do you, though
Certainly
No; but you're joking, though
I am not, indeed
Why, then
to let you into a little secret, I think so too. I don't mind telling you, Mr. Pickwick, although I'm dreadful jealous by nature -- horrid -- that the lady is in this house
That's what you were running out of the room for, before dinner, then, so often
Hush! Yes, you're right, that was it; not such a fool as to see her, though
No
No; wouldn't do, you know, after having just come off a journey. Wait till to-morrow, sir; double the chance then. Mr. Pickwick, Sir, there is a suit of clothes in that bag, and a hat in that box, which, I expect, in the effect they will produce, will be invaluable to me, sir
Indeed
Yes; you must have observed my anxiety about them to-day. I do not believe that such another suit of clothes, and such a hat, could be bought for money, Mr. Pickwick
She's a fine creature
Is she
Very
very. She lives about twenty miles from here, Mr. Pickwick. I heard she would be here to-night and all to-morrow forenoon, and came down to seize the opportunity. I think an inn is a good sort of a place to propose to a single woman in, Mr. Pickwick. She is more likely to feel the loneliness of her situation in travelling, perhaps, than she would be at home. What do you think, Mr. Pickwick
I think it is very probable
I beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick
but I am naturally rather curious; what may you have come down here for
On a far less pleasant errand, Sir
I have come down here, Sir, to expose the treachery and falsehood of an individual, upon whose truth and honour I placed implicit reliance
Dear me
that's very unpleasant. It is a lady, I presume? Eh? ah! Sly, Mr. Pickwick, sly. Well, Mr. Pickwick, sir, I wouldn't probe your feelings for the world. Painful subjects, these, sir, very painful. Don't mind me, Mr. Pickwick, if you wish to give vent to your feelings. I know what it is to be jilted, Sir; I have endured that sort of thing three or four times
I am much obliged to you, for your condolence on what you presume to be my melancholy case
but
No, no
not a word more; it's a painful subject. I see, I see. What's the time, Mr. Pickwick
Past twelve
Dear me, it's time to go to bed. It will never do, sitting here. I shall be pale to-morrow, Mr. Pickwick
This is your room, sir
Very well
Nobody sleeps in the other bed, of course
Oh, no, Sir
Very good. Tell my servant to bring me up some hot water at half-past eight in the morning, and that I shall not want him any more to-night
Yes, Sir
Who the devil's that
What do you want here
No matter
I can undress myself just as well by the light of the fire
It is the best idea
it is the best idea, my losing myself in this place, and wandering about these staircases, that I ever heard of. Droll, droll, very droll
back- hair
Bless my soul
what a dreadful thing
Hem
I never met with anything so awful as this
Never. This is fearful
This matter is growing alarming
I can't allow things to go on in this way. By the self- possession of that lady, it is clear to me that I must have come into the wrong room. If I call out she'll alarm the house; but if I remain here the consequences will be still more frightful
Ha-hum
Most extraordinary female this
Ha-hum
Gracious Heaven
what's that
It's -- it's -- only a gentleman, ma'am
A gentleman
It's all over
A strange man
Ma'am
ma'am
Wretch
what do you want here
Nothing, ma'am; nothing whatever, ma'am
Nothing
Nothing, ma'am, upon my honour
I am almost ready to sink, ma'am, beneath the confusion of addressing a lady in my nightcap (here the lady hastily snatched off hers), but I can't get it off, ma'am (here Mr. Pickwick gave it a tremendous tug, in proof of the statement). It is evident to me, ma'am, now, that I have mistaken this bedroom for my own. I had not been here five minutes, ma'am, when you suddenly entered it
If this improbable story be really true, Sir
you will leave it instantly
I will, ma'am, with the greatest pleasure
Instantly, sir
Certainly, ma'am
Certainly, ma'am. I -- I -- am very sorry, ma'am
to have been the innocent occasion of this alarm and emotion; deeply sorry, ma'am
I am exceedingly sorry, ma'am
If you are, Sir, you will at once leave the room
Immediately, ma'am; this instant, ma'am
I trust, ma'am
I trust, ma'am, that my unblemished character, and the devoted respect I entertain for your sex, will plead as some slight excuse for this
Sam
where's my bedroom
Sam
I have made one of the most extraordinary mistakes to-night, that ever were heard of
Wery likely, Sir
But of this I am determined, Sam
that if I were to stop in this house for six months, I would never trust myself about it, alone, again
That's the wery prudentest resolution as you could come to, Sir
What do you mean by that, Sam
Good-night
Good-night, Sir
Wery good power o' suction, Sammy
You'd ha' made an uncommon fine oyster, Sammy, if you'd been born in that station o' life
I'm wery sorry, Sammy
I'm wery sorry, Sammy, to hear from your lips, as you let yourself be gammoned by that 'ere mulberry man. I always thought, up to three days ago, that the names of Veller and gammon could never come into contract, Sammy, never
Always exceptin' the case of a widder, of course
Widders, Sammy
ceptions to ev'ry rule. I have heerd how many ordinary women one widder's equal to in pint o' comin' over you. I think it's five-and-twenty, but I don't rightly know vether it ain't more
Well; that's pretty well
Besides
I ought to ha' know'd better, I know
Ought to ha' know'd better
un as hasn't had half nor quarter your eddication -- as hasn't slept about the markets, no, not six months -- who'd ha' scorned to be let in, in such a vay; scorned it, Sammy
Well, it's no use talking about it now
un
I hope you will, Sammy. I hope you will
Here's your health, Sammy, and may you speedily vipe off the disgrace as you've inflicted on the family name
And now, Sammy
Now it's time I was up at the office to get my vay-bill and see the coach loaded; for coaches, Sammy, is like guns -- they requires to be loaded with wery great care, afore they go off
Well
This is wery odd. I could ha' swore it was him
I could take my oath to that 'ere black hair and mulberry suit
only I never see such a face as that afore
Hollo, you Sir
Hollo
Hollo, you sir
It won't do, Job Trotter
Come! None o' that 'ere nonsense. You ain't so wery 'andsome that you can afford to throw avay many o' your good looks. Bring them 'ere eyes o' yourn back into their proper places, or I'll knock 'em out of your head. D'ye hear
What do I see? Mr. Walker
Ah
You're wery glad to see me, ain't you
Glad
oh, Mr. Walker, if you had but known how I have looked forward to this meeting! It is too much, Mr. Walker; I cannot bear it, indeed I cannot
Get off
Get off, I tell you. What are you crying over me for, you portable engine
Because I am so glad to see you
Oh, Mr. Walker, this is too much
Too much
I think it is too much -- rayther! Now, what have you got to say to me, eh
What have you got to say to me, afore I knock your head off
Eh
What have you got to say to me
I, Mr. Walker
Don't call me Valker; my name's Veller; you know that vell enough. What have you got to say to me
Bless you, Mr. Walker -- Weller, I mean -- a great many things, if you will come away somewhere, where we can talk comfortably. If you knew how I have looked for you, Mr. Weller
Very, very, Sir
But shake hands, Mr. Weller
How
how is your dear, good master? Oh, he is a worthy gentleman, Mr. Weller! I hope he didn't catch cold, that dreadful night, Sir
Oh, I am so glad
is he here
Is yourn
Oh, yes, he is here, and I grieve to say, Mr. Weller, he is going on worse than ever
Ah, ah
Oh, shocking -- terrible
At a boarding-school
No, not at a boarding-school
not at a boarding-school
At the house with the green gate
No, no -- oh, not there
not there
What was you a-doin' there
Got inside the gate by accident, perhaps
Why, Mr. Weller
I don't mind telling you my little secrets, because, you know, we took such a fancy for each other when we first met. You recollect how pleasant we were that morning
Oh, yes
I remember. Well
Well
in that house with the green gate, Mr. Weller, they keep a good many servants
So I should think, from the look on it
Yes
and one of them is a cook, who has saved up a little money, Mr. Weller, and is desirous, if she can establish herself in life, to open a little shop in the chandlery way, you see
Yes
Yes, Mr. Weller. Well, Sir, I met her at a chapel that I go to; a very neat little chapel in this town, Mr. Weller, where they sing the number four collection of hymns, which I generally carry about with me, in a little book, which you may perhaps have seen in my hand -- and I got a little intimate with her, Mr. Weller, and from that, an acquaintance sprung up between us, and I may venture to say, Mr. Weller, that I am to be the chandler
Ah, and a wery amiable chandler you'll make
The great advantage of this, Mr. Weller
will be, that I shall be able to leave my present disgraceful service with that bad man, and to devote myself to a better and more virtuous life; more like the way in which I was brought up, Mr. Weller
You must ha' been wery nicely brought up
Oh, very, Mr. Weller, very
You must ha' been an uncommon nice boy, to go to school vith
I was, sir
I was the idol of the place
Ah
I don't wonder at it. What a comfort you must ha' been to your blessed mother
Wot's the matter with the man
Chelsea water-works is nothin' to you. What are you melting vith now? The consciousness o' willainy
I cannot keep my feelings down, Mr. Weller
To think that my master should have suspected the conversation I had with yours, and so dragged me away in a post-chaise, and after persuading the sweet young lady to say she knew nothing of him, and bribing the school-mistress to do the same, deserted her for a better speculation! Oh! Mr. Weller, it makes me shudder
Oh, that was the vay, was it
To be sure it was
Vell
I shall be sure to come
Yes, you'd better
or else I shall perhaps be askin' arter you, at the other side of the green gate, and then I might cut you out, you know
I shall be sure to be with you, sir
Take care, Job Trotter, take care
or I shall be one too many for you this time. I shall, indeed
It's all in training, Sir
What's in training, Sam
I've found 'em out, Sir
Found out who
That 'ere queer customer, and the melan-cholly chap with the black hair
Impossible, Sam
Where are they, Sam: where are they
Hush, hush
But when is this to be done, Sam
All in good time, Sir
Good-morning, Sir
What do you think of this, Sir
Very effective indeed
Yes, I think it'll do
Mr. Pickwick, Sir, I have sent up my card
Have you
And the waiter brought back word, that she would see me at eleven -- at eleven, Sir; it only wants a quarter now
Very near the time
Yes, it is rather near
rather too near to be pleasant -- eh! Mr. Pickwick, sir
Confidence is a great thing in these cases
I believe it is, Sir
I am very confident, Sir. Really, Mr. Pickwick, I do not see why a man should feel any fear in such a case as this, sir. What is it, Sir? There's nothing to be ashamed of; it's a matter of mutual accommodation, nothing more. Husband on one side, wife on the other. That's my view of the matter, Mr. Pickwick
It is a very philosophical one
But breakfast is waiting, Mr. Magnus. Come
He-he-he
It only wants two minutes, Mr. Pickwick. Am I pale, Sir
Not very
I beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick; but have you ever done this sort of thing in your time
You mean proposing
Yes
Never
never
You have no idea, then, how it's best to begin
Why
I may have formed some ideas upon the subject, but, as I have never submitted them to the test of experience, I should be sorry if you were induced to regulate your proceedings by them
I should feel very much obliged to you, for any advice, Sir
Well, sir
I should commence, sir, with a tribute to the lady's beauty and excellent qualities; from them, Sir, I should diverge to my own unworthiness
Very good
Unworthiness for HER only, mind, sir
for to show that I was not wholly unworthy, sir, I should take a brief review of my past life, and present condition. I should argue, by analogy, that to anybody else, I must be a very desirable object. I should then expatiate on the warmth of my love, and the depth of my devotion. Perhaps I might then be tempted to seize her hand
Yes, I see
that would be a very great point
I should then, Sir
I should then, Sir, come to the plain and simple question, "Will you have me?" I think I am justified in assuming that upon this, she would turn away her head
You think that may be taken for granted
because, if she did not do that at the right place, it would be embarrassing
I think she would
Upon this, sir, I should squeeze her hand, and I think -- I think, Mr. Magnus -- that after I had done that, supposing there was no refusal, I should gently draw away the handkerchief, which my slight knowledge of human nature leads me to suppose the lady would be applying to her eyes at the moment, and steal a respectful kiss. I think I should kiss her, Mr. Magnus; and at this particular point, I am decidedly of opinion that if the lady were going to take me at all, she would murmur into my ears a bashful acceptance
My friends, the gentleman I was speaking of -- Mr. Magnus
Your servant, gentlemen
Mr. Pickwick, allow me to speak to you one moment, sir
Congratulate me, Mr. Pickwick; I followed your advice to the very letter
And it was all correct, was it
It was, Sir. Could not possibly have been better
Mr. Pickwick, she is mine
I congratulate you, with all my heart
You must see her. Sir
this way, if you please. Excuse us for one instant, gentlemen
Come in
Miss Witherfield
allow me to introduce my very particular friend, Mr. Pickwick. Mr. Pickwick, I beg to make you known to Miss Witherfield
Mr. Pickwick
what is the meaning of this, Sir? What is the meaning of it, Sir
Sir
I decline answering that question
You decline it, Sir
I do, Sir
I object to say anything which may compromise that lady, or awaken unpleasant recollections in her breast, without her consent and permission
Miss Witherfield
do you know this person
Know him
Yes, know him, ma'am; I said know him
I have seen him
Where
where
That
that I would not reveal for worlds
I understand you, ma'am
and respect your delicacy; it shall never be revealed by ME depend upon it
Upon my word, ma'am
considering the situation in which I am placed with regard to yourself, you carry this matter off with tolerable coolness -- tolerable coolness, ma'am
Cruel Mr. Magnus
Address your observations to me, sir
I alone am to blame, if anybody be
Oh! you alone are to blame, are you, sir
I -- I -- see through this, sir. You repent of your determination now, do you
My determination
Your determination, Sir. Oh! don't stare at me, Sir
I recollect your words last night, Sir. You came down here, sir, to expose the treachery and falsehood of an individual on whose truth and honour you had placed implicit reliance -- eh
Eh
But you shall answer it, Sir
Answer what
Never mind, sir
Never mind
Never mind
Do you call yourself a gentleman, sir
Did I offer to say anything to the young woman, sir
Do you want your head knocked up against that wall, sir
Never mind, sir
Never mind
Tupman, come here
Tupman
a secret of some delicacy, in which that lady is concerned, is the cause of a difference which has just arisen between this gentleman and myself. When I assure him, in your presence, that it has no relation to himself, and is not in any way connected with his affairs, I need hardly beg you to take notice that if he continue to dispute it, he expresses a doubt of my veracity, which I shall consider extremely insulting
Muzzle
Muzzle
Yes, your Worship
Place a chair, and leave the room
Yes, your Worship
Now, ma'am, will you state your business
It is of a very painful kind, Sir
Very likely, ma'am
Compose your feelings, ma'am
And then tell me what legal business brings you here, ma'am
It is very distressing to me, Sir, to give this information
but I fear a duel is going to be fought here
Here, ma'am
Where, ma'am
In Ipswich
In Ipswich, ma'am! A duel in Ipswich
Impossible, ma'am; nothing of the kind can be contemplated in this town, I am persuaded. Bless my soul, ma'am, are you aware of the activity of our local magistracy? Do you happen to have heard, ma'am, that I rushed into a prize-ring on the fourth of May last, attended by only sixty special constables; and, at the hazard of falling a sacrifice to the angry passions of an infuriated multitude, prohibited a pugilistic contest between the Middlesex Dumpling and the Suffolk Bantam? A duel in Ipswich, ma'am? I don't think -- I do not think
that any two men can have had the hardihood to plan such a breach of the peace, in this town
My information is, unfortunately, but too correct
I was present at the quarrel
It's a most extraordinary thing
Muzzle
Yes, your Worship
Send Mr. Jinks here, directly! Instantly
Yes, your Worship
Mr. Jinks
Mr. Jinks
Sir
This lady, Mr. Jinks, has come here, to give information of an intended duel in this town
What are you laughing at, Mr. Jinks
Mr. Jinks
you're a fool
You may see something very comical in this information, Sir -- but I can tell you this, Mr. Jinks, that you have very little to laugh at
This man, Pickwick, is the principal, I understand
He is
And the other rioter -- what's his name, Mr. Jinks
Tupman, Sir
Tupman is the second
Yes
The other principal, you say, has absconded, ma'am
Yes
Very well
These are two cut-throats from London, who have come down here to destroy his Majesty's population, thinking that at this distance from the capital, the arm of the law is weak and paralysed. They shall be made an example of. Draw up the warrants, Mr. Jinks. Muzzle
Yes, your Worship
Is Grummer downstairs
Yes, your Worship
Send him up
Grummer
Your Wash-up
Is the town quiet now
Pretty well, your Wash-up
Pop'lar feeling has in a measure subsided, consekens o' the boys having dispersed to cricket
Nothing but vigorous measures will do in these times, Grummer
if the authority of the king's officers is set at naught, we must have the riot act read. If the civil power cannot protect these windows, Grummer, the military must protect the civil power, and the windows too. I believe that is a maxim of the constitution, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, sir
Very good
Grummer, you will bring these persons before me, this afternoon. You will find them at the Great White Horse. You recollect the case of the Middlesex Dumpling and the Suffolk Bantam, Grummer
This is even more unconstitutional
this is even a greater breach of the peace, and a grosser infringement of his Majesty's prerogative. I believe duelling is one of his Majesty's most undoubted prerogatives, Mr. Jinks
Expressly stipulated in Magna Charta, sir
One of the brightest jewels in the British crown, wrung from his Majesty by the barons, I believe, Mr. Jinks
Just so, Sir
Very well
it shall not be violated in this portion of his dominions. Grummer, procure assistance, and execute these warrants with as little delay as possible. Muzzle
Yes, your Worship
Show the lady out
This is a private room, Sir. A private room
No room's private to his Majesty when the street door's once passed. That's law. Some people maintains that an Englishman's house is his castle. That's gammon
Which is Mr. Tupman
My name's Tupman
My name's Law
What
Law
Law, civil power, and exekative; them's my titles; here's my authority. Blank Tupman, blank Pickwick -- against the peace of our sufferin' lord the king -- stattit in the case made and purwided -- and all regular. I apprehend you Pickwick! Tupman -- the aforesaid
What do you mean by this insolence
leave the room
Hollo
Dubbley
Well
Come for'ard, Dubbley
Is the other specials outside, Dubbley
Order in the diwision under your charge, Dubbley
What is the meaning of this atrocious intrusion upon my privacy
Who dares apprehend me
What do you want here, scoundrels
Who is it
Pickwick
Who have you got in this here conweyance
Stand back
Knock him down, if he don't
andsome suggestion; but I should prefer your givin' me a answer to my question, if it's all the same to you. -- How are you, Sir
Ah
it's wery pretty, 'specially the crown, which is uncommon like the real one
Stand back
Now, Grummer, who is that person
This here's Pickvick, your Wash-up
Come, none o' that 'ere, old Strike-a-light
Who is this man, Grummer
Wery desp'rate ch'racter, your Wash-up
He attempted to rescue the prisoners, and assaulted the officers; so we took him into custody, and brought him here
You did quite right
He is evidently a desperate ruffian
He is my servant, Sir
Oh! he is your servant, is he
A conspiracy to defeat the ends of justice, and murder its officers. Pickwick's servant. Put that down, Mr. Jinks
What's your name, fellow
Veller
A very good name for the Newgate Calendar
Put down his name, Mr. Jinks
Two L's, old feller
Where do you live
Vere ever I can
Put down that, Mr. Jinks
Score it under
He is a vagabond, Mr. Jinks
He is a vagabond on his own statement,-- is he not, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, Sir
Then I'll commit him -- I'll commit him as such
This is a wery impartial country for justice, 'said Sam
Grummer
how dare you select such an inefficient and disreputable person for a special constable, as that man? How dare you do it, Sir
I am very sorry, your Wash-up
Very sorry
You shall repent of this neglect of duty, Mr. Grummer; you shall be made an example of. Take that fellow's staff away. He's drunk. You're drunk, fellow
I am not drunk, your Worship
You ARE drunk
How dare you say you are not drunk, Sir, when I say you are? Doesn't he smell of spirits, Grummer
Horrid, your Wash-up
I knew he did
I saw he was drunk when he first came into the room, by his excited eye. Did you observe his excited eye, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, Sir
I haven't touched a drop of spirits this morning
How dare you tell me a falsehood
Isn't he drunk at this moment, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, Sir
Mr. Jinks
I shall commit that man for contempt. Make out his committal, Mr. Jinks
Now, Mr. Jinks
swear Grummer
I beg your pardon, sir, for interrupting you
but before you proceed to express, and act upon, any opinion you may have formed on the statements which have been made here, I must claim my right to be heard so far as I am personally concerned
Hold your tongue, Sir
I must submit to you, Sir
Hold your tongue, sir
or I shall order an officer to remove you
You may order your officers to do whatever you please, Sir
and I have no doubt, from the specimen I have had of the subordination preserved amongst them, that whatever you order, they will execute, Sir; but I shall take the liberty, Sir, of claiming my right to be heard, until I am removed by force
Pickvick and principle
Sam, be quiet
Dumb as a drum vith a hole in it, Sir
What do you want to say
First
first, I wish to know what I and my friend have been brought here for
Must I tell him
I think you had better, sir
An information has been sworn before me
that it is apprehended you are going to fight a duel, and that the other man, Tupman, is your aider and abettor in it. Therefore -- eh, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, sir
Therefore, I call upon you both, to -- I think that's the course, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, Sir
To -- to -- what, Mr. Jinks
To find bail, sir
Yes. Therefore, I call upon you both -- as I was about to say when I was interrupted by my clerk -- to find bail
Good bail
I shall require good bail
Town's-people
They must be townspeople
Fifty pounds each
and householders, of course
I shall require two sureties of fifty pounds each
and they must be householders, of course
But bless my heart, Sir
we are perfect strangers in this town. I have as little knowledge of any householders here, as I have intention of fighting a duel with anybody
I dare say
I dare say -- don't you, Mr. Jinks
Certainly, Sir
Have you anything more to say
I beg the magistrate's pardon, but may I request a few minutes' private conversation with him, on a matter of deep importance to himself
What
This is a most extraordinary request
A private interview
A private interview
only, as a part of the information which I wish to communicate is derived from my servant, I should wish him to be present
What do you think of this request, Mr. Jinks
Mr. Jinks
you are an ass
I will come to the point at once, sir
it affects yourself and your credit materially. I have every reason to believe, Sir, that you are harbouring in your house a gross impostor
Two
Mulberry agin all natur, for tears and willainny
Sam
if I am to render myself intelligible to this gentleman, I must beg you to control your feelings
Wery sorry, Sir
but when I think o' that 'ere Job, I can't help opening the walve a inch or two
In one word, Sir
is my servant right in suspecting that a certain Captain Fitz-Marshall is in the habit of visiting here? Because
because if he be, I know that person to be a
Hush, hush
Know him to be what, Sir
An unprincipled adventurer -- a dishonourable character -- a man who preys upon society, and makes easily-deceived people his dupes, Sir; his absurd, his foolish, his wretched dupes, Sir
Dear me
Dear me, Mr
Pickvick
Pickwick
dear me, Mr. Pickwick -- pray take a seat -- you cannot mean this? Captain Fitz-Marshall
Don't call him a cap'en
nor Fitz-Marshall neither; he ain't neither one nor t'other. He's a strolling actor, he is, and his name's Jingle; and if ever there was a wolf in a mulberry suit, that 'ere Job Trotter's him
It is very true, Sir
my only business in this town, is to expose the person of whom we now speak
But after all
after all, this is a mere statement. Captain Fitz-Marshall is a man of very engaging manners, and, I dare say, has many enemies. What proof have you of the truth of these representations
Confront me with him
that is all I ask, and all I require. Confront him with me and my friends here; you will want no further proof
Why
that might be very easily done, for he will be here to-night, and then there would be no occasion to make the matter public, just -- just -- for the young man's own sake, you know. I -- I -- should like to consult Mrs. Nupkins on the propriety of the step, in the first instance, though. At all events, Mr. Pickwick, we must despatch this legal business before we can do anything else. Pray step back into the next room
Grummer
Your Wash-up
Come, come, Sir
don't let me see any of this levity here. It is very unbecoming, and I can assure you that you have very little to smile at. Was the account you gave me just now strictly true? Now be careful, sir
Your Wash-up
I
Oh, you are confused, are you
Mr. Jinks, you observe this confusion
Certainly, Sir
Now
repeat your statement, Grummer, and again I warn you to be careful. Mr. Jinks, take his words down
The idea
the idea of my being made such a fool of
Ah! you may thank your papa, my dear
how I have implored and begged that man to inquire into the captain's family connections; how I have urged and entreated him to take some decisive step! I am quite certain nobody would believe it -- quite
But, my dear
Don't talk to me, you aggravating thing, don't
My love
you professed yourself very fond of Captain Fitz-Marshall. You have constantly asked him here, my dear, and you have lost no opportunity of introducing him elsewhere
Didn't I say so, Henrietta
Didn't I say that your papa would turn round and lay all this at my door? Didn't I say so
Oh, pa
Isn't it too much, when he has brought all this disgrace and ridicule upon us, to taunt me with being the cause of it
How can we ever show ourselves in society
How can we face the Porkenhams
Or the Griggs
Or the Slummintowkens
But what does your papa care! What is it to HIM
How de do, sir
Why, no considerable change has taken place in the state of my system, since I see you cocked up behind your governor's chair in the parlour, a little vile ago
You will excuse my not taking more notice of you then
You see, master hadn't introduced us, then. Lord, how fond he is of you, Mr. Weller, to be sure
Ah
what a pleasant chap he is
Ain't he
So much humour
And such a man to speak
How his ideas flow, don't they
Wonderful
they comes a-pouring out, knocking each other's heads so fast, that they seems to stun one another; you hardly know what he's arter, do you
That's the great merit of his style of speaking
Ah! perhaps I may as well have a rinse
How many ladies are there
Only two in our kitchen
Yes
we tried 'em at our table when they first come, but we couldn't keep 'em. The gal's manners is dreadful vulgar; and the boy breathes so very hard while he's eating, that we found it impossible to sit at table with him
Young grampus
Oh, dreadful
but that is the worst of country service, Mr. Weller; the juniors is always so very savage. This way, sir, if you please, this way
Mary
this is Mr. Weller; a gentleman as master has sent down, to be made as comfortable as possible
And your master's a knowin' hand, and has just sent me to the right place
If I wos master o' this here house, I should alvays find the materials for comfort vere Mary wos
Lor, Mr. Weller
Well, I never
Bless me, cook, I forgot you
Mr. Weller, let me introduce you
How are you, ma'am
I never could a-bear that Job
No more you never ought to, my dear
Why not
replied Mr. Weller. 'Ought they, Mr. Muzzle
Not by no means
Drink with me, my dear
Put your lips to this here tumbler, and then I can kiss you by deputy
For shame, Mr. Weller
What's a shame, my dear
Talkin' in that way
Nonsense; it ain't no harm. It's natur; ain't it, cook
Don't ask me, imperence
Here he is
Why we were that wery moment a-speaking o' you. How are you? Where have you been? Come in
Well, here's a game
Quite
So cheerful he is
In such good spirits
And so glad to see us -- that makes it so much more comfortable
Sit down; sit down
Well, now
And as was ever a-going to be married to a cook
The willin
And leave off his evil ways, and set up in the chandlery line arterwards
Now, I'll tell you what it is, young man
this here lady (pointing to the cook) keeps company with me; and when you presume, Sir, to talk of keeping chandlers' shops with her, you injure me in one of the most delicatest points in which one man can injure another. Do you understand that, Sir
It's very probable, sir, that you won't be wanted upstairs for several minutes, Sir, because MY master is at this moment particularly engaged in settling the hash of YOUR master, Sir; and therefore you'll have leisure, Sir, for a little private talk with me, Sir. Do you understand that, Sir
Well, then
I'm very sorry to have to explain myself before ladies, but the urgency of the case will be my excuse. The back kitchen's empty, Sir. If you will step in there, Sir, Mr. Weller will see fair, and we can have mutual satisfaction till the bell rings. Follow me, Sir
That's for you, Job Trotter
What prevents me
what prevents me from detaining these men as rogues and impostors? It is a foolish mercy. What prevents me
Pride, old fellow, pride
Wouldn't do -- no go -- caught a captain, eh?-- ha! ha! very good -- husband for daughter -- biter bit -- make it public -- not for worlds -- look stupid -- very
Wretch
we scorn your base insinuations
I always hated him
Oh, of course
Tall young man -- old lover -- Sidney Porkenham -- rich -- fine fellow -- not so rich as captain, though, eh?-- turn him away -- off with him -- anything for captain -- nothing like captain anywhere -- all the girls -- raving mad -- eh, Job, eh
Mr. Nupkins
this is not a fit conversation for the servants to overhear. Let these wretches be removed
Certainly, my dear
Muzzle
Your Worship
Open the front door
Yes, your Worship
Leave the house
Stay
I might
have taken a much greater revenge for the treatment I have experienced at your hands, and that of your hypocritical friend there
I say
that I might have taken a greater revenge, but I content myself with exposing you, which I consider a duty I owe to society. This is a leniency, Sir, which I hope you will remember
And I have only to add, sir
that I consider you a rascal, and a -- a -- ruffian -- and -- and worse than any man I ever saw, or heard of, except that pious and sanctified vagabond in the mulberry livery
Ha! ha
good fellow, Pickwick -- fine heart -- stout old boy -- but must NOT be passionate -- bad thing, very -- bye, bye -- see you again some day -- keep up your spirits -- now, Job -- trot
Sam
Sir
Stay here
Stay here
Mayn't I polish that 'ere Job off, in the front garden
Certainly not
Mayn't I kick him out o' the gate, Sir
Not on any account
Having discharged my duty, Sir
I will, with my friends, bid you farewell. While we thank you for such hospitality as we have received, permit me to assure you, in our joint names, that we should not have accepted it, or have consented to extricate ourselves in this way, from our previous dilemma, had we not been impelled by a strong sense of duty. We return to London to-morrow. Your secret is safe with us
Get your hat, Sam
It's below stairs, Sir
Here it is
This is it, ain't it
Let me look
Yes, this is it
Good-bye
Good-bye
Good-bye
How awkward you are
You'll lose it again, if you don't take care
You don't mean to say you did that on purpose
No, I didn't then
but I will now
Sam
Coming, Sir
How long you have been
There was something behind the door, Sir, which perwented our getting it open, for ever so long, Sir
Sam
Sir
I have just been thinking, Sam
that having left a good many things at Mrs. Bardell's, in Goswell Street, I ought to arrange for taking them away, before I leave town again
Wery good, sir
I could send them to Mr. Tupman's, for the present, Sam
but before we take them away, it is necessary that they should be looked up, and put together. I wish you would step up to Goswell Street, Sam, and arrange about it
At once, Sir
At once
And stay, Sam
there is some rent to pay. The quarter is not due till Christmas, but you may pay it, and have done with it. A month's notice terminates my tenancy. Here it is, written out. Give it, and tell Mrs. Bardell she may put a bill up, as soon as she likes
Wery good, sir
anythin' more, sir
Nothing more, Sam
Sam
Yes, sir
I have no objection, Sam, to your endeavouring to ascertain how Mrs. Bardell herself seems disposed towards me, and whether it is really probable that this vile and groundless action is to be carried to extremity. I say I do not object to you doing this, if you wish it, Sam
Well, young townskip
how's mother
She's pretty well
so am I
Well, that's a mercy
tell her I want to speak to her, will you, my hinfant fernomenon
Mr. Pickwick's servant
Bless my soul
Well, I raly would not ha' believed it, unless I had ha' happened to ha' been here
Hold your noise -- do -- you naughty creetur
Yes; don't worrit your poor mother
She's quite enough to worrit her, as it is, without you, Tommy
Ah! worse luck, poor lamb
Now, what shall I do
I think you ought to see him
But on no account without a witness
I think two witnesses would be more lawful
Perhaps he'd better come in here
To be sure
walk in, young man; and shut the street door first, please
casion any personal inconwenience, ma'am, as the housebreaker said to the old lady when he put her on the fire; but as me and my governor 's only jest come to town, and is jest going away agin, it can't be helped, you see
Of course, the young man can't help the faults of his master
Certainly not
So all I've come about, is jest this here
first, to give my governor's notice -- there it is. Secondly, to pay the rent -- here it is. Thirdly, to say as all his things is to be put together, and give to anybody as we sends for 'em. Fourthly, that you may let the place as soon as you like -- and that's all
Whatever has happened
I always have said, and always will say, that in every respect but one, Mr. Pickwick has always behaved himself like a perfect gentleman. His money always as good as the bank -- always
Poor dear
Ah, poor thing
I raly cannot contain myself
when I think of such perjury. I don't wish to say anything to make you uncomfortable, young man, but your master's an old brute, and I wish I had him here to tell him so
I wish you had
To see how dreadful she takes on, going moping about, and taking no pleasure in nothing, except when her friends comes in, out of charity, to sit with her, and make her comfortable
it's shocking
Barbareous
And your master, young man! A gentleman with money, as could never feel the expense of a wife, no more than nothing
why there ain't the faintest shade of an excuse for his behaviour! Why don't he marry her
Ah
to be sure; that's the question
Question, indeed
she'd question him, if she'd my spirit. Hows'ever, there is law for us women, mis'rable creeturs as they'd make us, if they could; and that your master will find out, young man, to his cost, afore he's six months older
The action's going on, and no mistake
Here's the receipt, Mr. Weller
and here's the change, and I hope you'll take a little drop of something to keep the cold out, if it's only for old acquaintance' sake, Mr. Weller
Lauk, Mrs. Bardell
see what you've been and done
Well, that is a good one
Ah, my poor head
I suppose you've heard what's going forward, Mr. Weller
I've heerd somethin' on it
It's a terrible thing to be dragged before the public, in that way, Mr. Weller
but I see now, that it's the only thing I ought to do, and my lawyers, Mr. Dodson and Fogg, tell me that, with the evidence as we shall call, we must succeed. I don't know what I should do, Mr. Weller, if I didn't
Ven is it expected to come on
Either in February or March
What a number of witnesses there'll be, won't there
Ah! won't there
And won't Mr. Dodson and Fogg be wild if the plaintiff shouldn't get it
when they do it all on speculation
Ah! won't they
But the plaintiff must get it
I hope so
Oh, there can't be any doubt about it
Vell
all I can say is, that I vish you MAY get it
Thank'ee, Mr. Weller
And of them Dodson and Foggs, as does these sort o' things on spec
'em
Ah, I wish they had the reward that every kind and generous heart would be inclined to bestow upon them
Amen to that
and a fat and happy liven' they'd get out of it! Wish you good-night, ladies
Certainly, Sam, certainly
certainly, Sam
I am very glad to see that you have so high a sense of your duties as a son, Sam
I always had, sir
That's a very gratifying reflection, Sam
Wery, Sir
if ever I wanted anythin' o' my father, I always asked for it in a wery 'spectful and obligin' manner. If he didn't give it me, I took it, for fear I should be led to do anythin' wrong, through not havin' it. I saved him a world o' trouble this vay, Sir
That's not precisely what I meant, Sam
cos she seemed unhappy with him
You may go, Sam
Thank'ee, Sir
Now, then
what do you want, young man
Governor in
No, he isn't
no, he isn't, and I don't expect him, either
I suppose he's drivin' up to-day
He may be, or he may not
Mother-in-law
how are you
Why, I do believe he is a Weller
I rayther think he is
ll excuse me saying that I wish I was THE Weller as owns you, mother-in-law
Get along with you
For shame, young man
No offence, sir, no offence
you're wery right, though; it ain't the right sort o' thing, ven mothers-in-law is young and good-looking, is it, Sir
It's all vanity
Ah, so it is
And how's father
He's shocked at the way your father goes on in
Oh, he is, is he
And with too good reason
He is a dreadful reprobate
A man of wrath
un up to now
Up to, indeed
Oh, he has a hard heart. Night after night does this excellent man -- don't frown, Mr. Stiggins; I WILL say you ARE an excellent man -- come and sit here, for hours together, and it has not the least effect upon him
Well, that is odd
ud have a wery considerable effect upon me, if I wos in his place; I know that
The fact is, my young friend
he has an obderrate bosom. Oh, my young friend, who else could have resisted the pleading of sixteen of our fairest sisters, and withstood their exhortations to subscribe to our noble society for providing the infant negroes in the West Indies with flannel waistcoats and moral pocket-handkerchiefs
What's a moral pocket-ankercher
I never see one o' them articles o' furniter
Those which combine amusement With instruction, my young friend
blending select tales with wood-cuts
Oh, I know
them as hangs up in the linen-drapers' shops, with beggars' petitions and all that 'ere upon 'em
And he wouldn't be persuaded by the ladies, wouldn't he
Sat and smoked his pipe, and said the infant negroes were -- what did he say the infant negroes were
Little humbugs
Said the infant negroes were little humbugs
What, Sammy
What, old Nobs
Wery glad to see you, Sammy
though how you've managed to get over your mother-in-law, is a mystery to me. I only vish you'd write me out the receipt, that's all
Hush
she's at home, old feller
replied Mr. Weller; 'she always goes and blows up, downstairs, for a couple of hours arter tea; so we'll just give ourselves a damp, Sammy
Anybody been here, Sammy
Red-nosed chap
Amiable man that 'ere, Sammy
Seems so
Good hand at accounts
Is he
bout the nails in the horse's shoes, Sammy
So you vouldn't subscribe to the flannel veskits
what's the good o' flannel veskits to the young niggers abroad? But I'll tell you what it is, Sammy
I'd come down wery handsome towards strait veskits for some people at home
'em
They're alvays a-doin' some gammon of that sort, Sammy
Not a bit on it
for the shepherd's water- rate, Sammy
The shepherd's water-rate
Ay
'em, Sammy, to make him free of the water company for life
I'm one Dutchman, and you're another, and that's all about it
The worst o' these here shepherds is, my boy, that they reg'larly turns the heads of all the young ladies, about here. Lord bless their little hearts, they thinks it's all right, and don't know no better; but they're the wictims o' gammon, Samivel, they're the wictims o' gammon
Nothin' else
ud shake the nonsense out of 'em, if anythin' vould
Here's your dear relation, Sammy
Oh, you've come back, have you
Yes, my dear
Has Mr. Stiggins been back
No, my dear, he hasn't
Ugh, you wretch
Thank'ee, my love
Come, come, father
Off at once
I vish you could muffle that 'ere Stiggins, and take him vith you
I am ashamed on you
what do you let him show his red nose in the Markis o' Granby at all, for
cause I'm a married man. Ven you're a married man, Samivel, you'll understand a good many things as you don't understand now; but vether it's worth while goin' through so much, to learn so little, as the charity-boy said ven he got to the end of the alphabet, is a matter o' taste. I rayther think it isn't
Well
good-bye
Tar, tar, Sammy
I've only got to say this here
that if I was the properiator o' the Markis o' Granby, and that 'ere Stiggins came and made toast in my bar, I'd
What
What
Pison his rum-and-water
No
would you raly, Sammy-would you, though
I would
I wouldn't be too hard upon him at first. I'd drop him in the water-butt, and put the lid on; and if I found he was insensible to kindness, I'd try the other persvasion
All right
two stout gentlemen
Aha
Aha
Well, you look rosy enough, my young friend
I've been asleep, right in front of the taproom fire
Master sent me over with the shay-cart, to carry your luggage up to the house. He'd ha' sent some saddle-horses, but he thought you'd rather walk, being a cold day
Yes, yes
Yes, we would rather walk. Here, Sam
Sir
Help Mr. Wardle's servant to put the packages into the cart, and then ride on with him. We will walk forward at once
There
there they are
Yes
there they are
Vell, young twenty stun
you're a nice specimen of a prize boy, you are
Thank'ee
You ain't got nothin' on your mind as makes you fret yourself, have you
Not as I knows on
I should rayther ha' thought, to look at you, that you was a-labourin' under an unrequited attachment to some young 'ooman
Vell
I likes eating better
Ah
Sometimes
and I likes a drop of something, when it's good
Oh, you do, do you
come this way, then
Can you drive
I should rayther think so
There, then
it's as straight as you can go; you can't miss it
Well
a back
Hurrah
Mother
Mr. Pickwick. You recollect him
Never mind
Don't trouble Mr. Pickwick about an old creetur like me. Nobody cares about me now, and it's very nat'ral they shouldn't
Come, come, ma'am
I can't let you cut an old friend in this way. I have come down expressly to have a long talk, and another rubber with you; and we'll show these boys and girls how to dance a minuet, before they're eight-and- forty hours older
Ah! I can't hear him
Nonsense, mother
Come, come, don't be cross, there's a good soul. Recollect Bella; come, you must keep her spirits up, poor girl
Ah, Mr. Pickwick, young people was very different, when I was a girl
No doubt of that, ma'am
and that's the reason why I would make much of the few that have any traces of the old stock
Oh, do come and tie me, there's a dear
Vere does the mince-pies go, young opium-eater
Wery good
Wardle
a glass of wine in honour of this happy occasion
I shall be delighted, my boy
Joe -- damn that boy, he's gone to sleep
No, I ain't, sir
Fill Mr. Pickwick's glass
Yes, sir
God bless you, old fellow
Same to you, my boy
Mrs. Wardle
we old folks must have a glass of wine together, in honour of this joyful event
Mr. Miller
a glass of wine
With great satisfaction, Mr. Pickwick
You'll take me in
And me
And me, and me
Ladies and gentlemen
Hear, hear! Hear, hear! Hear, hear
Call in all the servants
Give them a glass of wine each to drink the toast in. Now, Pickwick
Ladies and gentlemen -- no, I won't say ladies and gentlemen, I'll call you my friends, my dear friends, if the ladies will allow me to take so great a liberty
Go away
if you can
My dear friends
I am going to propose the health of the bride and bridegroom -- God bless 'em (cheers and tears). My young friend, Trundle, I believe to be a very excellent and manly fellow; and his wife I know to be a very amiable and lovely girl, well qualified to transfer to another sphere of action the happiness which for twenty years she has diffused around her, in her father's house. (Here, the fat boy burst forth into stentorian blubberings, and was led forth by the coat collar, by Mr. Weller.) I wish
I wish I was young enough to be her sister's husband (cheers), but, failing that, I am happy to be old enough to be her father; for, being so, I shall not be suspected of any latent designs when I say, that I admire, esteem, and love them both (cheers and sobs). The bride's father, our good friend there, is a noble person, and I am proud to know him (great uproar). He is a kind, excellent, independent-spirited, fine-hearted, hospitable, liberal man (enthusiastic shouts from the poor relations, at all the adjectives; and especially at the two last). That his daughter may enjoy all the happiness, even he can desire; and that he may derive from the contemplation of her felicity all the gratification of heart and peace of mind which he so well deserves, is, I am persuaded, our united wish. So, let us drink their healths, and wish them prolonged life, and every blessing
You mean to dance
Of course I do
Don't you see I am dressed for the purpose
YOU in silk stockings
And why not, sir -- why not
Oh, of course there is no reason why you shouldn't wear them
I imagine not, sir -- I imagine not
I hope they are
You see nothing extraordinary in the stockings, AS stockings, I trust, Sir
Certainly not. Oh, certainly not
We are all ready, I believe
Then begin at once
Now
Stop, stop
What's the matter
Where's Arabella Allen
And Winkle
Here we are
What an extraordinary thing it is, Winkle
that you couldn't have taken your place before
Not at all extraordinary
Well
well, I don't know that it WAS extraordinary, either, after all
And so your family has games in the kitchen to-night, my dear, has they
Yes, Mr. Weller
we always have on Christmas Eve. Master wouldn't neglect to keep it up on any account
Your master's a wery pretty notion of keeping anythin' up, my dear
Oh, that he is
don't he breed nice pork
Oh, you've woke up, at last, have you
I'll tell you what it is, young boa-constructer
What did they do to him
I'm a-going to tell you
he was one o' the largest patterns as was ever turned out -- reg'lar fat man, as hadn't caught a glimpse of his own shoes for five-and-forty year
Lor
No, that he hadn't, my dear
This
this is, indeed, comfort
Our invariable custom
Everybody sits down with us on Christmas Eve, as you see them now -- servants and all; and here we wait, until the clock strikes twelve, to usher Christmas in, and beguile the time with forfeits and old stories. Trundle, my boy, rake up the fire
Come
a song -- a Christmas song! I'll give you one, in default of a better
Bravo
Fill up
It will be two hours, good, before you see the bottom of the bowl through the deep rich colour of the wassail; fill up all round, and now for the song
In his fine honest pride, he scorns to hide One jot of his hard-weather scars; They're no disgrace, for there's much the same trace On the cheeks of our bravest tars. Then again I sing till the roof doth ring And it echoes from wall to wall -- To the stout old wight, fair welcome to-night, As the King of the Seasons all
How it snows
Snows, does it
Rough, cold night, Sir
and there's a wind got up, that drifts it across the fields, in a thick white cloud
What does Jem say
There ain't anything the matter, is there
No, no, mother
he says there's a snowdrift, and a wind that's piercing cold. I should know that, by the way it rumbles in the chimney
Ah
there was just such a wind, and just such a fall of snow, a good many years back, I recollect -- just five years before your poor father died. It was a Christmas Eve, too; and I remember that on that very night he told us the story about the goblins that carried away old Gabriel Grub
The story about what
Oh, nothing, nothing
About an old sexton, that the good people down here suppose to have been carried away by goblins
Suppose
Is there anybody hardy enough to disbelieve it? Suppose! Haven't you heard ever since you were a child, that he WAS carried away by the goblins, and don't you know he was
Very well, mother, he was, if you like
He WAS carried away by goblins, Pickwick; and there's an end of the matter
No, no
not an end of it, I assure you; for I must hear how, and why, and all about it
Ho! ho!" laughed Gabriel Grub, as he sat himself down on a flat tombstone which was a favourite resting-place of his, and drew forth his wicker bottle. "A coffin at Christmas! A Christmas box! Ho! ho! ho!" ' "Ho! ho! ho!" repeated a voice which sounded close behind him. 

'Gabriel paused, in some alarm, in the act of raising the wicker bottle to his lips, and looked round. The bottom of the oldest grave about him was not more still and quiet than the churchyard in the pale moonlight. The cold hoar frost glistened on the tombstones, and sparkled like rows of gems, among the stone carvings of the old church. The snow lay hard and crisp upon the ground; and spread over the thickly-strewn mounds of earth, so white and smooth a cover that it seemed as if corpses lay there, hidden only by their winding sheets. Not the faintest rustle broke the profound tranquillity of the solemn scene. Sound itself appeared to be frozen up, all was so cold and still. 

' "It was the echoes," said Gabriel Grub, raising the bottle to his lips again. 

' "It was NOT," said a deep voice. 

'Gabriel started up, and stood rooted to the spot with astonishment and terror; for his eyes rested on a form that made his blood run cold. 

'Seated on an upright tombstone, close to him, was a strange, unearthly figure, whom Gabriel felt at once, was no being of this world. His long, fantastic legs which might have reached the ground, were cocked up, and crossed after a quaint, fantastic fashion; his sinewy arms were bare; and his hands rested on his knees. On his short, round body, he wore a close covering, ornamented with small slashes; a short cloak dangled at his back; the collar was cut into curious peaks, which served the goblin in lieu of ruff or neckerchief; and his shoes curled up at his toes into long points. On his head, he wore a broad-brimmed sugar-loaf hat, garnished with a single feather. The hat was covered with the white frost; and the goblin looked as if he had sat on the same tombstone very comfortably, for two or three hundred years. He was sitting perfectly still; his tongue was put out, as if in derision; and he was grinning at Gabriel Grub with such a grin as only a goblin could call up. 

' "It was NOT the echoes," said the goblin. 

'Gabriel Grub was paralysed, and could make no reply. 

' "What do you do here on Christmas Eve?" said the goblin sternly. ' "I came to dig a grave, Sir," stammered Gabriel Grub. 

' "What man wanders among graves and churchyards on such a night as this?" cried the goblin. 

' "Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!" screamed a wild chorus of voices that seemed to fill the churchyard. Gabriel looked fearfully round -- nothing was to be seen. 

' "What have you got in that bottle?" said the goblin. 

' "Hollands, sir," replied the sexton, trembling more than ever; for he had bought it of the smugglers, and he thought that perhaps his questioner might be in the excise department of the goblins. 

' "Who drinks Hollands alone, and in a churchyard, on such a night as this?" said the goblin. 

' "Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!" exclaimed the wild voices again. 

'The goblin leered maliciously at the terrified sexton, and then raising his voice, exclaimed -- 

' "And who, then, is our fair and lawful prize?" 

'To this inquiry the invisible chorus replied, in a strain that sounded like the voices of many choristers singing to the mighty swell of the old church organ -- a strain that seemed borne to the sexton's ears upon a wild wind, and to die away as it passed onward; but the burden of the reply was still the same, "Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!" 

'The goblin grinned a broader grin than before, as he said, "Well, Gabriel, what do you say to this?" 

'The sexton gasped for breath. ' "What do you think of this, Gabriel?" said the goblin, kicking up his feet in the air on either side of the tombstone, and looking at the turned-up points with as much complacency as if he had been contemplating the most fashionable pair of Wellingtons in all Bond Street. 

' "It's -- it's -- very curious, Sir," replied the sexton, half dead with fright; "very curious, and very pretty, but I think I'll go back and finish my work, Sir, if you please." 

' "Work!" said the goblin, "what work?" 

' "The grave, Sir; making the grave," stammered the sexton. 

' "Oh, the grave, eh?" said the goblin; "who makes graves at a time when all other men are merry, and takes a pleasure in it?" 

'Again the mysterious voices replied, "Gabriel Grub! Gabriel Grub!" 

' "I am afraid my friends want you, Gabriel," said the goblin, thrusting his tongue farther into his cheek than ever -- and a most astonishing tongue it was --"I'm afraid my friends want you, Gabriel," said the goblin. 

' "Under favour, Sir," replied the horror-stricken sexton, "I don't think they can, Sir; they don't know me, Sir; I don't think the gentlemen have ever seen me, Sir." 

' "Oh, yes, they have," replied the goblin; "we know the man with the sulky face and grim scowl, that came down the street to-night, throwing his evil looks at the children, and grasping his burying-spade the tighter. We know the man who struck the boy in the envious malice of his heart, because the boy could be merry, and he could not. We know him, we know him." 

'Here, the goblin gave a loud, shrill laugh, which the echoes returned twentyfold; and throwing his legs up in the air, stood upon his head, or rather upon the very point of his sugar-loaf hat, on the narrow edge of the tombstone, whence he threw a Somerset with extraordinary agility, right to the sexton's feet, at which he planted himself in the attitude in which tailors generally sit upon the shop-board. 

' "I -- I -- am afraid I must leave you, Sir," said the sexton, making an effort to move. 

' "Leave us!" said the goblin, "Gabriel Grub going to leave us. Ho! ho! ho!" 

'As the goblin laughed, the sexton observed, for one instant, a brilliant illumination within the windows of the church, as if the whole building were lighted up; it disappeared, the organ pealed forth a lively air, and whole troops of goblins, the very counterpart of the first one, poured into the churchyard, and began playing at leap-frog with the tombstones, never stopping for an instant to take breath, but "overing" the highest among them, one after the other, with the most marvellous dexterity. The first goblin was a most astonishing leaper, and none of the others could come near him; even in the extremity of his terror the sexton could not help observing, that while his friends were content to leap over the common-sized gravestones, the first one took the family vaults, iron railings and all, with as much ease as if they had been so many street-posts. 

'At last the game reached to a most exciting pitch; the organ played quicker and quicker, and the goblins leaped faster and faster, coiling themselves up, rolling head over heels upon the ground, and bounding over the tombstones like footballs. The sexton's brain whirled round with the rapidity of the motion he beheld, and his legs reeled beneath him, as the spirits flew before his eyes; when the goblin king, suddenly darting towards him, laid his hand upon his collar, and sank with him through the earth. 

'When Gabriel Grub had had time to fetch his breath, which the rapidity of his descent had for the moment taken away, he found himself in what appeared to be a large cavern, surrounded on all sides by crowds of goblins, ugly and grim; in the centre of the room, on an elevated seat, was stationed his friend of the churchyard; and close behind him stood Gabriel Grub himself, without power of motion. 

' "Cold to-night," said the king of the goblins, "very cold. A glass of something warm here!" 

'At this command, half a dozen officious goblins, with a perpetual smile upon their faces, whom Gabriel Grub imagined to be courtiers, on that account, hastily disappeared, and presently returned with a goblet of liquid fire, which they presented to the king. 

' "Ah!" cried the goblin, whose cheeks and throat were transparent, as he tossed down the flame, "this warms one, indeed! Bring a bumper of the same, for Mr. Grub." 

'It was in vain for the unfortunate sexton to protest that he was not in the habit of taking anything warm at night; one of the goblins held him while another poured the blazing liquid down his throat; the whole assembly screeched with laughter, as he coughed and choked, and wiped away the tears which gushed plentifully from his eyes, after swallowing the burning draught. 

' "And now," said the king, fantastically poking the taper corner of his sugar-loaf hat into the sexton's eye, and thereby occasioning him the most exquisite pain; "and now, show the man of misery and gloom, a few of the pictures from our own great storehouse!" 

'As the goblin said this, a thick cloud which obscured the remoter end of the cavern rolled gradually away, and disclosed, apparently at a great distance, a small and scantily furnished, but neat and clean apartment. A crowd of little children were gathered round a bright fire, clinging to their mother's gown, and gambolling around her chair. The mother occasionally rose, and drew aside the window-curtain, as if to look for some expected object; a frugal meal was ready spread upon the table; and an elbow chair was placed near the fire. A knock was heard at the door; the mother opened it, and the children crowded round her, and clapped their hands for joy, as their father entered. He was wet and weary, and shook the snow from his garments, as the children crowded round him, and seizing his cloak, hat, stick, and gloves, with busy zeal, ran with them from the room. Then, as he sat down to his meal before the fire, the children climbed about his knee, and the mother sat by his side, and all seemed happiness and comfort. 

'But a change came upon the view, almost imperceptibly. The scene was altered to a small bedroom, where the fairest and youngest child lay dying; the roses had fled from his cheek, and the light from his eye; and even as the sexton looked upon him with an interest he had never felt or known before, he died. His young brothers and sisters crowded round his little bed, and seized his tiny hand, so cold and heavy; but they shrank back from its touch, and looked with awe on his infant face; for calm and tranquil as it was, and sleeping in rest and peace as the beautiful child seemed to be, they saw that he was dead, and they knew that he was an angel looking down upon, and blessing them, from a bright and happy Heaven. 

'Again the light cloud passed across the picture, and again the subject changed. The father and mother were old and helpless now, and the number of those about them was diminished more than half; but content and cheerfulness sat on every face, and beamed in every eye, as they crowded round the fireside, and told and listened to old stories of earlier and bygone days. Slowly and peacefully, the father sank into the grave, and, soon after, the sharer of all his cares and troubles followed him to a place of rest. The few who yet survived them, kneeled by their tomb, and watered the green turf which covered it with their tears; then rose, and turned away, sadly and mournfully, but not with bitter cries, or despairing lamentations, for they knew that they should one day meet again; and once more they mixed with the busy world, and their content and cheerfulness were restored. The cloud settled upon the picture, and concealed it from the sexton's view. 

' "What do you think of THAT?" said the goblin, turning his large face towards Gabriel Grub. 

'Gabriel murmured out something about its being very pretty, and looked somewhat ashamed, as the goblin bent his fiery eyes upon him. 

' " You miserable man!" said the goblin, in a tone of excessive contempt. "You!" He appeared disposed to add more, but indignation choked his utterance, so he lifted up one of his very pliable legs, and, flourishing it above his head a little, to insure his aim, administered a good sound kick to Gabriel Grub; immediately after which, all the goblins in waiting crowded round the wretched sexton, and kicked him without mercy, according to the established and invariable custom of courtiers upon earth, who kick whom royalty kicks, and hug whom royalty hugs. 

' "Show him some more!" said the king of the goblins. 

'At these words, the cloud was dispelled, and a rich and beautiful landscape was disclosed to view -- there is just such another, to this day, within half a mile of the old abbey town. The sun shone from out the clear blue sky, the water sparkled beneath his rays, and the trees looked greener, and the flowers more gay, beneath its cheering influence. The water rippled on with a pleasant sound, the trees rustled in the light wind that murmured among their leaves, the birds sang upon the boughs, and the lark carolled on high her welcome to the morning. Yes, it was morning; the bright, balmy morning of summer; the minutest leaf, the smallest blade of grass, was instinct with life. The ant crept forth to her daily toil, the butterfly fluttered and basked in the warm rays of the sun; myriads of insects spread their transparent wings, and revelled in their brief but happy existence. Man walked forth, elated with the scene; and all was brightness and splendour. 

' "YOU a miserable man!" said the king of the goblins, in a more contemptuous tone than before. And again the king of the goblins gave his leg a flourish; again it descended on the shoulders of the sexton; and again the attendant goblins imitated the example of their chief. 

'Many a time the cloud went and came, and many a lesson it taught to Gabriel Grub, who, although his shoulders smarted with pain from the frequent applications of the goblins' feet thereunto, looked on with an interest that nothing could diminish. He saw that men who worked hard, and earned their scanty bread with lives of labour, were cheerful and happy; and that to the most ignorant, the sweet face of Nature was a never-failing source of cheerfulness and joy. He saw those who had been delicately nurtured, and tenderly brought up, cheerful under privations, and superior to suffering, that would have crushed many of a rougher grain, because they bore within their own bosoms the materials of happiness, contentment, and peace. He saw that women, the tenderest and most fragile of all God's creatures, were the oftenest superior to sorrow, adversity, and distress; and he saw that it was because they bore, in their own hearts, an inexhaustible well-spring of affection and devotion. Above all, he saw that men like himself, who snarled at the mirth and cheerfulness of others, were the foulest weeds on the fair surface of the earth; and setting all the good of the world against the evil, he came to the conclusion that it was a very decent and respectable sort of world after all. No sooner had he formed it, than the cloud which had closed over the last picture, seemed to settle on his senses, and lull him to repose. One by one, the goblins faded from his sight; and, as the last one disappeared, he sank to sleep. 

'The day had broken when Gabriel Grub awoke, and found himself lying at full length on the flat gravestone in the churchyard, with the wicker bottle lying empty by his side, and his coat, spade, and lantern, all well whitened by the last night's frost, scattered on the ground. The stone on which he had first seen the goblin seated, stood bolt upright before him, and the grave at which he had worked, the night before, was not far off. At first, he began to doubt the reality of his adventures, but the acute pain in his shoulders when he attempted to rise, assured him that the kicking of the goblins was certainly not ideal. He was staggered again, by observing no traces of footsteps in the snow on which the goblins had played at leap-frog with the gravestones, but he speedily accounted for this circumstance when he remembered that, being spirits, they would leave no visible impression behind them. So, Gabriel Grub got on his feet as well as he could, for the pain in his back; and, brushing the frost off his coat, put it on, and turned his face towards the town. 

'But he was an altered man, and he could not bear the thought of returning to a place where his repentance would be scoffed at, and his reformation disbelieved. He hesitated for a few moments; and then turned away to wander where he might, and seek his bread elsewhere. 

'The lantern, the spade, and the wicker bottle were found, that day, in the churchyard. There were a great many speculations about the sexton's fate, at first, but it was speedily determined that he had been carried away by the goblins; and there were not wanting some very credible witnesses who had distinctly seen him whisked through the air on the back of a chestnut horse blind of one eye, with the hind-quarters of a lion, and the tail of a bear. At length all this was devoutly believed; and the new sexton used to exhibit to the curious, for a trifling emolument, a good- sized piece of the church weathercock which had been accidentally kicked off by the aforesaid horse in his aerial flight, and picked up by himself in the churchyard, a year or two afterwards. 

'Unfortunately, these stories were somewhat disturbed by the unlooked-for reappearance of Gabriel Grub himself, some ten years afterwards, a ragged, contented, rheumatic old man. He told his story to the clergyman, and also to the mayor; and in course of time it began to be received as a matter of history, in which form it has continued down to this very day. The believers in the weathercock tale, having misplaced their confidence once, were not easily prevailed upon to part with it again, so they looked as wise as they could, shrugged their shoulders, touched their foreheads, and murmured something about Gabriel Grub having drunk all the Hollands, and then fallen asleep on the flat tombstone; and they affected to explain what he supposed he had witnessed in the goblin's cavern, by saying that he had seen the world, and grown wiser. But this opinion, which was by no means a popular one at any time, gradually died off; and be the matter how it may, as Gabriel Grub was afflicted with rheumatism to the end of his days, this story has at least one moral, if it teach no better one -- and that is, that if a man turn sulky and drink by himself at Christmas time, he may make up his mind to be not a bit the better for it: let the spirits be never so good, or let them be even as many degrees beyond proof, as those which Gabriel Grub saw in the goblin's cavern
Well, Sam
still frosty
Water in the wash-hand basin's a mask o' ice, Sir
Severe weather, Sam
Fine time for them as is well wropped up, as the Polar bear said to himself, ven he was practising his skating
I shall be down in a quarter of an hour, Sam
Wery good, sir
There's a couple o' sawbones downstairs
A couple of what
A couple o' sawbones
What's a sawbones
What! Don't you know what a sawbones is, sir
I thought everybody know'd as a sawbones was a surgeon
Oh, a surgeon, eh
Just that, sir
In other words they're medical students, I suppose
I am glad of it
They are fine fellows -- very fine fellows; with judgments matured by observation and reflection; and tastes refined by reading and study. I am very glad of it
They're a-smokin' cigars by the kitchen fire
Ah
overflowing with kindly feelings and animal spirits. Just what I like to see
And one on 'em
one on 'em's got his legs on the table, and is a-drinking brandy neat, vile the t'other one -- him in the barnacles -- has got a barrel o' oysters atween his knees, which he's a-openin' like steam, and as fast as he eats 'em, he takes a aim vith the shells at young dropsy, who's a sittin' down fast asleep, in the chimbley corner
Eccentricities of genius, Sam
You may retire
Here he is at last
Pickwick, this is Miss Allen's brother, Mr. Benjamin Allen. Ben we call him, and so may you, if you like. This gentleman is his very particular friend, Mr
Mr. Bob Sawyer
Splendid morning, gentlemen
Have you come far this morning, gentlemen
Blue Lion at Muggleton
You should have joined us last night
So we should
but the brandy was too good to leave in a hurry; wasn't it, Ben
Certainly
and the cigars were not bad, or the pork-chops either; were they, Bob
Decidedly not
Peg away, Bob
So I do
Nothing like dissecting, to give one an appetite
By the bye, Bob
have you finished that leg yet
Nearly
It's a very muscular one for a child's
Is it
Very
I've put my name down for an arm at our place
We're clubbing for a subject, and the list is nearly full, only we can't get hold of any fellow that wants a head. I wish you'd take it
No
can't afford expensive luxuries
Nonsense
Can't, indeed
I wouldn't mind a brain, but I couldn't stand a whole head
Hush, hush, gentlemen, pray
I hear the ladies
Why, Ben
Come to take you home to-morrow
Don't you see Bob Sawyer, Arabella
Ben, dear
have -- have -- you been introduced to Mr. Winkle
I have not been, but I shall be very happy to be, Arabella
Now
what say you to an hour on the ice? We shall have plenty of time
Capital
Prime
You skate, of course, Winkle
Ye-yes; oh, yes
I -- I -- am RATHER out of practice
Oh, DO skate, Mr. Winkle
I like to see it so much
Oh, it is SO graceful
swan-like
I should be very happy, I'm sure
but I have no skates
Now, then, Sir
off vith you, and show 'em how to do it
Stop, Sam, stop
How slippery it is, Sam
Not an uncommon thing upon ice, Sir
Hold up, Sir
These -- these -- are very awkward skates; ain't they, Sam
'em, Sir
Now, Winkle
Come; the ladies are all anxiety
Yes, yes
I'm coming
Just a-goin' to begin
Now, Sir, start off
Stop an instant, Sam
I find I've got a couple of coats at home that I don't want, Sam. You may have them, Sam
Thank'ee, Sir
Never mind touching your hat, Sam
You needn't take your hand away to do that. I meant to have given you five shillings this morning for a Christmas box, Sam. I'll give it you this afternoon, Sam
You're wery good, sir
Just hold me at first, Sam; will you
There -- that's right. I shall soon get in the way of it, Sam. Not too fast, Sam; not too fast
Sam
Sir
Here. I want you
Let go, Sir
Are you hurt
Not much
I wish you'd let me bleed you
No, thank you
I really think you had better
Thank you
I'd rather not
What do YOU think, Mr. Pickwick
Take his skates off
No; but really I had scarcely begun
Take his skates off
Lift him up
You're a humbug, sir
A what
A humbug, Sir. I will speak plainer, if you wish it. An impostor, sir
knocking at the cobbler's door
It looks a nice warm exercise that, doesn't it
Ah, it does, indeed
Do you slide
I used to do so, on the gutters, when I was a boy
Try it now
Oh, do, please, Mr. Pickwick
I should be very happy to afford you any amusement
but I haven't done such a thing these thirty years
Pooh! pooh! Nonsense
Here; I'll keep you company; come along
Fire
Keep yourself up for an instant -- for only one instant
Yes, do; let me implore you -- for my sake
Do you feel the bottom there, old fellow
Yes, certainly
I fell upon my back. I couldn't get on my feet at first
Oh, he'll catch his death of cold
Dear old thing
Let me wrap this shawl round you, Mr. Pickwick
Ah, that's the best thing you can do
and when you've got it on, run home as fast as your legs can carry you, and jump into bed directly
I say, old boy, where do you hang out
I wish you'd come and see me
Nothing would give me greater pleasure
There's my lodgings
Lant Street, Borough; it's near Guy's, and handy for me, you know. Little distance after you've passed St. George's Church -- turns out of the High Street on the right hand side the way
I shall find it
Come on Thursday fortnight, and bring the other chaps with you
I'm going to have a few medical fellows that night
life
Call Mr. Pickwick's servant, Tom
Don't trouble yourself
I've come on business. If you'll show me Mr. Pickwick's room I'll step up myself
What name, Sir
Jackson
How de do, sir
I have called from Dodson and Fogg's
I refer you to my attorney, Sir; Mr. Perker, of Gray's Inn
Waiter, show this gentleman out
Beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick
But personal service, by clerk or agent, in these cases, you know, Mr. Pickwick -- nothing like caution, sir, in all legal forms -- eh
Now, come; don't let's have no words about such a little matter as this. Which of you gentlemen's name's Snodgrass
Ah! I thought so
I've a little something to trouble you with, Sir
Me
It's only a subpoena in Bardell and Pickwick on behalf of the plaintiff
It'll come on, in the settens after Term: fourteenth of Febooary, we expect; we've marked it a special jury cause, and it's only ten down the paper. That's yours, Mr. Snodgrass
I think I ain't mistaken when I say your name's Tupman, am I
Yes, my name is Tupman, Sir
And that other gentleman's Mr. Winkle, I think
Now
I'm afraid you'll think me rather troublesome, but I want somebody else, if it ain't inconvenient. I have Samuel Weller's name here, Mr. Pickwick
Send my servant here, waiter
I suppose, Sir
I suppose, Sir, that it is the intention of your employers to seek to criminate me upon the testimony of my own friends
For what other reason, Sir
are these subpoenas served upon them, if not for this
Very good plant, Mr. Pickwick
But it won't do. No harm in trying, but there's little to be got out of me
taking a grinder
No, no, Mr. Pickwick
Perker's people must guess what we've served these subpoenas for. If they can't, they must wait till the action comes on, and then they'll find out
Samuel Weller
Vun o' the truest things as you've said for many a long year
Here's a subpoena for you, Mr. Weller
What's that in English
Here's the original
Which
This
cos it's a gratifyin' sort o' thing, and eases vun's mind so much
And here's the shilling
It's from Dodson and Fogg's
And it's uncommon handsome o' Dodson and Fogg, as knows so little of me, to come down vith a present
I feel it as a wery high compliment, sir; it's a wery honorable thing to them, as they knows how to reward merit werever they meets it. Besides which, it's affectin' to one's feelin's
Sam
Sir
Which way
Up Newgate Street
What's the matter, sir
This action, Sam
is expected to come on, on the fourteenth of next month
Remarkable coincidence that 'ere, sir
Why remarkable, Sam
Walentine's day, sir
reg'lar good day for a breach o' promise trial
Wery nice pork-shop that 'ere, sir
Yes, it seems so
Celebrated sassage factory
Is it
Is it
I should rayther think it was. Why, sir, bless your innocent eyebrows, that's where the mysterious disappearance of a 'spectable tradesman took place four years ago
You don't mean to say he was burked, Sam
No, I don't indeed, sir
It's very unfortunate
Very
Will you leave a message for him
When do you think he'll be back
Quite uncertain
You don't think it would be of any use my waiting for him
Oh, no, I'm sure it wouldn't
He's certain not to be back this week, and it's a chance whether he will be next; for when Perker once gets out of town, he's never in a hurry to come back again
Out of town
dear me, how unfortunate
Don't go away, Mr. Pickwick
I've got a letter for you
Step in, Mr. Pickwick
Well, will you leave a message, Mr. Watty, or will you call again
Ask him to be so kind as to leave out word what has been done in my business
for God's sake don't neglect it, Mr. Lowten
No, no; I won't forget it
Walk in, Mr. Pickwick. Good-morning, Mr. Watty; it's a fine day for walking, isn't it
There never was such a pestering bankrupt as that since the world began, I do believe
His affairs haven't been in Chancery quite four years yet, and I'm d -- d if he don't come worrying here twice a week. Step this way, Mr. Pickwick. Perker IS in, and he'll see you, I know. Devilish cold
standing at that door, wasting one's time with such seedy vagabonds
Ah, my dear Sir
Well, my dear sir, and what's the news about your matter, eh? Anything more about our friends in Freeman's Court? They've not been sleeping, I know that. Ah, they're very smart fellows; very smart, indeed
They are great scoundrels
Aye, aye
that's a matter of opinion, you know, and we won't dispute about terms; because of course you can't be expected to view these subjects with a professional eye. Well, we've done everything that's necessary. I have retained Serjeant Snubbin
Is he a good man
Good man
bless your heart and soul, my dear Sir, Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession. Gets treble the business of any man in court -- engaged in every case. You needn't mention it abroad; but we say -- we of the profession -- that Serjeant Snubbin leads the court by the nose
They have subpoenaed my three friends
Ah! of course they would
Important witnesses; saw you in a delicate situation
But she fainted of her own accord
She threw herself into my arms
Very likely, my dear Sir
very likely and very natural. Nothing more so, my dear Sir, nothing. But who's to prove it
They have subpoenaed my servant, too
Sam
Of course, my dear Sir; of course. I knew they would. I could have told you that, a month ago. You know, my dear Sir, if you WILL take the management of your affairs into your own hands after entrusting them to your solicitor, you must also take the consequences
And what do they want him to prove
That you sent him up to the plaintiff 's to make some offer of a compromise, I suppose
It don't matter much, though; I don't think many counsel could get a great deal out of HIM
I don't think they could
What course do we pursue
We have only one to adopt, my dear Sir
cross-examine the witnesses; trust to Snubbin's eloquence; throw dust in the eyes of the judge; throw ourselves on the jury
And suppose the verdict is against me
You mean that in that case I must pay the damages
I am afraid so
Then I beg to announce to you my unalterable determination to pay no damages whatever
None, Perker. Not a pound, not a penny of my money, shall find its way into the pockets of Dodson and Fogg. That is my deliberate and irrevocable determination
Very well, my dear Sir, very well
You know best, of course
Of course
Where does Serjeant Snubbin live
In Lincoln's Inn Old Square
I should like to see him
See Serjeant Snubbin, my dear Sir
Pooh, pooh, my dear Sir, impossible. See Serjeant Snubbin! Bless you, my dear Sir, such a thing was never heard of, without a consultation fee being previously paid, and a consultation fixed. It couldn't be done, my dear Sir; it couldn't be done
Is the Serjeant in his room, Mr. Mallard
Yes, he is
but he's very busy. Look here; not an opinion given yet, on any one of these cases; and an expedition fee paid with all of 'em
Something like practice that
Yes
and the best of it is, that as nobody alive except myself can read the serjeant's writing, they are obliged to wait for the opinions, when he has given them, till I have copied 'em, ha-ha-ha
Which makes good for we know who, besides the serjeant, and draws a little more out of the clients, eh
ha, ha, ha
You haven't made me out that little list of the fees that I'm in your debt, have you
No, I have not
I wish you would
Let me have them, and I'll send you a cheque. But I suppose you're too busy pocketing the ready money, to think of the debtors, eh? ha, ha, ha
But, Mr. Mallard, my dear friend
you must persuade the Serjeant to see me, and my client here
Come, come
that's not bad either. See the Serjeant! come, that's too absurd
Mr. Pickwick is the defendant in Bardell and Pickwick, Serjeant Snubbin
I am retained in that, am I
You are, Sir
Mr. Pickwick was anxious to call upon you, Serjeant Snubbin
to state to you, before you entered upon the case, that he denies there being any ground or pretence whatever for the action against him; and that unless he came into court with clean hands, and without the most conscientious conviction that he was right in resisting the plaintiff's demand, he would not be there at all. I believe I state your views correctly; do I not, my dear Sir
Quite so
Has Mr. Pickwick a strong case
Do you propose calling witnesses
No
My wishing to wait upon you, for such a purpose as this, Sir, appears, I have no doubt, to a gentleman who sees so much of these matters as you must necessarily do, a very extraordinary circumstance
Gentlemen of your profession, Sir
see the worst side of human nature. All its disputes, all its ill-will and bad blood, rise up before you. You know from your experience of juries (I mean no disparagement to you, or them) how much depends upon effect; and you are apt to attribute to others, a desire to use, for purposes of deception and Self-interest, the very instruments which you, in pure honesty and honour of purpose, and with a laudable desire to do your utmost for your client, know the temper and worth of so well, from constantly employing them yourselves. I really believe that to this circumstance may be attributed the vulgar but very general notion of your being, as a body, suspicious, distrustful, and over-cautious. Conscious as I am, sir, of the disadvantage of making such a declaration to you, under such circumstances, I have come here, because I wish you distinctly to understand, as my friend Mr. Perker has said, that I am innocent of the falsehood laid to my charge; and although I am very well aware of the inestimable value of your assistance, Sir, I must beg to add, that unless you sincerely believe this, I would rather be deprived of the aid of your talents than have the advantage of them
Who is with me in this case
Mr. Phunky, Serjeant Snubbin
Phunky -- Phunky
I never heard the name before. He must be a very young man
Yes, he is a very young man
He was only called the other day. Let me see -- he has not been at the Bar eight years yet
Ah, I thought not
Mr. Mallard, send round to Mr.-- Mr
interposed Perker. (Holborn Court, by the bye, is South Square now.) 'Mr. Phunky, and say I should be glad if he'd step here, a moment
I have not had the pleasure of seeing you before, Mr. Phunky
You are with me in this case, I understand
Have you read the papers, Mr. Phunky
This is Mr. Pickwick
Perhaps you will take Mr. Pickwick away
and -- and -- and -- hear anything Mr. Pickwick may wish to communicate. We shall have a consultation, of course
Well, it is unlucky she should have taken it in her head to turn sour, just on this occasion. She might at least have waited till to-morrow
That's her malevolence -- that's her malevolence
She says that if I can afford to give a party I ought to be able to pay her confounded "little bill
How long has it been running
Only a quarter, and a month or so
It'll be a deuced unpleasant thing if she takes it into her head to let out, when those fellows are here, won't it
Horrible
horrible
Please, Mister Sawyer, Missis Raddle wants to speak to you
Here I am, and in I'm coming
Come in
Now, Mr. Sawyer
if you'll have the kindness to settle that little bill of mine I'll thank you, because I've got my rent to pay this afternoon, and my landlord's a-waiting below now
I am very sorry to put you to any inconvenience, Mrs. Raddle
but
Oh, it isn't any inconvenience
I didn't want it particular before to-day; leastways, as it has to go to my landlord directly, it was as well for you to keep it as me. You promised me this afternoon, Mr. Sawyer, and every gentleman as has ever lived here, has kept his word, Sir, as of course anybody as calls himself a gentleman does
getting the steam up
I am very sorry, Mrs. Raddle
but the fact is, that I have been disappointed in the City to-day
Well, Mr. Sawyer
and what's that to me, Sir
I -- I -- have no doubt, Mrs. Raddle
that before the middle of next week we shall be able to set ourselves quite square, and go on, on a better system, afterwards
Do you suppose, Mr. Sawyer
do you suppose that I'm a-going day after day to let a fellar occupy my lodgings as never thinks of paying his rent, nor even the very money laid out for the fresh butter and lump sugar that's bought for his breakfast, and the very milk that's took in, at the street door? Do you suppose a hard-working and industrious woman as has lived in this street for twenty year (ten year over the way, and nine year and three-quarters in this very house) has nothing else to do but to work herself to death after a parcel of lazy idle fellars, that are always smoking and drinking, and lounging, when they ought to be glad to turn their hands to anything that would help 'em to pay their bills? Do you
My good soul
Have the goodness to keep your observashuns to yourself, Sir, I beg
I am not aweer, Sir, that you have any right to address your conversation to me. I don't think I let these apartments to you, Sir
No, you certainly did not
Very good, Sir
Then p'raps, Sir, you'll confine yourself to breaking the arms and legs of the poor people in the hospitals, and keep yourself TO yourself, Sir, or there may be some persons here as will make you, Sir
But you are such an unreasonable woman
I beg your parding, young man
But will you have the goodness just to call me that again, sir
I didn't make use of the word in any invidious sense, ma'am
I beg your parding, young man
But who do you call a woman? Did you make that remark to me, sir
Why, bless my heart
Did you apply that name to me, I ask of you, sir
Why, of course I did
Yes, of course you did
Yes, of course you did! And everybody knows that they may safely insult me in my own 'ouse while my husband sits sleeping downstairs, and taking no more notice than if I was a dog in the streets. He ought to be ashamed of himself (here Mrs. Raddle sobbed) to allow his wife to be treated in this way by a parcel of young cutters and carvers of live people's bodies, that disgraces the lodgings (another sob), and leaving her exposed to all manner of abuse; a base, faint- hearted, timorous wretch, that's afraid to come upstairs, and face the ruffinly creatures -- that's afraid -- that's afraid to come
Does Mr. Sawyer live here
Yes
first floor. It's the door straight afore you, when you gets to the top of the stairs
How are you
Glad to see you -- take care of the glasses
Dear me
I beg your pardon
Don't mention it, don't mention it
I'm rather confined for room here, but you must put up with all that, when you come to see a young bachelor. Walk in. You've seen this gentleman before, I think
I hope that's Jack Hopkins
Hush. Yes, it is. Come up, Jack; come up
You're late, Jack
Been detained at Bartholomew's
Anything new
No, nothing particular. Rather a good accident brought into the casualty ward
What was that, sir
Only a man fallen out of a four pair of stairs' window; but it's a very fair case indeed
Do you mean that the patient is in a fair way to recover
No
No, I should rather say he wouldn't. There must be a splendid operation, though, to-morrow -- magnificent sight if Slasher does it
You consider Mr. Slasher a good operator
Best alive
Took a boy's leg out of the socket last week -- boy ate five apples and a gingerbread cake -- exactly two minutes after it was all over, boy said he wouldn't lie there to be made game of, and he'd tell his mother if they didn't begin
Dear me
Pooh! That's nothing, that ain't
Is it, Bob
Nothing at all
By the bye, Bob
we had a curious accident last night. A child was brought in, who had swallowed a necklace
Swallowed what, Sir
A necklace
Not all at once, you know, that would be too much -- you couldn't swallow that, if the child did -- eh, Mr. Pickwick? ha, ha
No, the way was this. Child's parents were poor people who lived in a court. Child's eldest sister bought a necklace -- common necklace, made of large black wooden beads. Child being fond of toys, cribbed the necklace, hid it, played with it, cut the string, and swallowed a bead. Child thought it capital fun, went back next day, and swallowed another bead
Bless my heart
what a dreadful thing! I beg your pardon, Sir. Go on
Next day, child swallowed two beads; the day after that, he treated himself to three, and so on, till in a week's time he had got through the necklace -- five-and-twenty beads in all. The sister, who was an industrious girl, and seldom treated herself to a bit of finery, cried her eyes out, at the loss of the necklace; looked high and low for it; but, I needn't say, didn't find it. A few days afterwards, the family were at dinner -- baked shoulder of mutton, and potatoes under it -- the child, who wasn't hungry, was playing about the room, when suddenly there was heard a devil of a noise, like a small hailstorm. "Don't do that, my boy," said the father. "I ain't a-doin' nothing," said the child. "Well, don't do it again," said the father. There was a short silence, and then the noise began again, worse than ever. "If you don't mind what I say, my boy," said the father, "you'll find yourself in bed, in something less than a pig's whisper." He gave the child a shake to make him obedient, and such a rattling ensued as nobody ever heard before. "Why, damme, it's IN the child!" said the father, "he's got the croup in the wrong place!" "No, I haven't, father," said the child, beginning to cry, "it's the necklace; I swallowed it, father."-- The father caught the child up, and ran with him to the hospital; the beads in the boy's stomach rattling all the way with the jolting; and the people looking up in the air, and down in the cellars, to see where the unusual sound came from. He's in the hospital now
and he makes such a devil of a noise when he walks about, that they're obliged to muffle him in a watchman's coat, for fear he should wake the patients
That's the most extraordinary case I ever heard of
Oh, that's nothing
Is it, Bob
Certainly not
Very singular things occur in our profession, I can assure you, Sir
So I should be disposed to imagine
Dear me
it is a very extraordinary circumstance
I am sorry you have forgotten it
very sorry
So am I
because I know it would have afforded so much amusement. Never mind; I dare say I shall manage to recollect it, in the course of half an hour or so
Now, Betsy
now, Betsy, the warm water; be brisk, there's a good girl
You can't have no warm water
No warm water
No
Missis Raddle said you warn't to have none
Bring up the warm water instantly -- instantly
No. I can't
Missis Raddle raked out the kitchen fire afore she went to bed, and locked up the kittle
Oh, never mind; never mind. Pray don't disturb yourself about such a trifle
cold water will do very well
Oh, admirably
My landlady is subject to some slight attacks of mental derangement
I fear I must give her warning
No, don't
I fear I must
I'll pay her what I owe her, and give her warning to-morrow morning
Sawyer
Well, Noddy
I should be very sorry, Sawyer
to create any unpleasantness at any friend's table, and much less at yours, Sawyer -- very; but I must take this opportunity of informing Mr. Gunter that he is no gentleman
And I should be very sorry, Sawyer, to create any disturbance in the street in which you reside
but I'm afraid I shall be under the necessity of alarming the neighbours by throwing the person who has just spoken, out o' window
What do you mean by that, sir
What I say, Sir
I should like to see you do it, Sir
You shall FEEL me do it in half a minute, Sir
I request that you'll favour me with your card, Sir
I'll do nothing of the kind, Sir
Why not, Sir
Because you'll stick it up over your chimney-piece, and delude your visitors into the false belief that a gentleman has been to see you, Sir
Sir, a friend of mine shall wait on you in the morning
Sir, I'm very much obliged to you for the caution, and I'll leave particular directions with the servant to lock up the spoons
Now
just to set us going again, Bob, I don't mind singing a song
The King, God bless him
Bay of Biscay
A Frog he would
Hush! I beg your pardon. I thought I heard somebody calling from upstairs
I think I hear it now
Have the goodness to open the door
Mr. Sawyer! Mr. Sawyer
It's my landlady
Yes, Mrs. Raddle
What do you mean by this, Mr. Sawyer
You ought to be ashamed of yourselves
Ashamed of themselves
Why don't you go down and knock 'em every one downstairs? You would if you was a man
I should if I was a dozen men, my dear
but they have the advantage of me in numbers, my dear
Ugh, you coward
DO you mean to turn them wretches out, or not, Mr. Sawyer
They're going, Mrs. Raddle, they're going
I am afraid you'd better go
I thought you were making too much noise
It's a very unfortunate thing
Just as we were getting so comfortable too
It's hardly to be borne
Hardly to be borne, is it
Not to be endured
let's have the other verse, Bob. Come, here goes
No, no, Jack, don't
it's a capital song, but I am afraid we had better not have the other verse. They are very violent people, the people of the house
Shall I step upstairs, and pitch into the landlord
or keep on ringing the bell, or go and groan on the staircase? You may command me, Bob
I am very much indebted to you for your friendship and good- nature, Hopkins
but I think the best plan to avoid any further dispute is for us to break up at once
Now, Mr. Sawyer
are them brutes going
They're only looking for their hats, Mrs. Raddle
they are going directly
Going
Going! what did they ever come for
My dear ma'am
Get along with you, old wretch
Old enough to be his grandfather, you willin! You're worse than any of 'em
Dear Perker. Is all going on well
Now, young man, what do you want
Is there anybody here, named Sam
What's the t'other name
How should I know
You're a sharp boy, you are
only I wouldn't show that wery fine edge too much, if I was you, in case anybody took it off. What do you mean by comin' to a hot-el, and asking arter Sam, vith as much politeness as a vild Indian
Him as drives a Ipswich coach, and uses our parlour
He told me yesterday mornin' to come to the George and Wultur this arternoon, and ask for Sam
It's my father, my dear
blessed if I think he hardly knows wot my other name is. Well, young brockiley sprout, wot then
Why then
You may wenture on that 'ere statement, Sir
if it hadn't been for this, I should ha' forgot all about it, till it was too late
valentine
I should ha' forgot it; I should certainly ha' forgot it
He won't be here this three-quarters of an hour or more
Wery good, my dear
Let me have nine- penn'oth o' brandy-and-water luke, and the inkstand, will you, miss
Vell, Sammy
Vell, my Prooshan Blue
What's the last bulletin about mother-in-law
No better yet
All the symptoms aggerawated
But wot's that, you're a-doin' of? Pursuit of knowledge under difficulties, Sammy
I've done now
So I see
Not to any young 'ooman, I hope, Sammy
Why, it's no use a-sayin' it ain't
it's a walentine
A what
A walentine
Samivel, Samivel
I didn't think you'd ha' done it. Arter the warnin' you've had o' your father's wicious propensities; arter all I've said to you upon this here wery subject; arter actiwally seein' and bein' in the company o' your own mother-in-law, vich I should ha' thought wos a moral lesson as no man could never ha' forgotten to his dyin' day! I didn't think you'd ha' done it, Sammy, I didn't think you'd ha' done it
Wot's the matter now
Nev'r mind, Sammy
it'll be a wery agonisin' trial to me at my time of life, but I'm pretty tough, that's vun consolation, as the wery old turkey remarked wen the farmer said he wos afeerd he should be obliged to kill him for the London market
Wot'll be a trial
To see you married, Sammy -- to see you a dilluded wictim, and thinkin' in your innocence that it's all wery capital
It's a dreadful trial to a father's feelin's, that 'ere, Sammy
Nonsense
I ain't a-goin' to get married, don't you fret yourself about that; I know you're a judge of these things. Order in your pipe and I'll read you the letter. There
fire away
Lovely
Stop
A double glass o' the inwariable, my dear
Very well, Sir
They seem to know your ways here
Yes
I've been here before, in my time. Go on, Sammy
Lovely creetur
Tain't in poetry, is it
No, no
Wery glad to hear it
Lovely creetur I feel myself a damned --"' 'That ain't proper
No; it ain't "damned
it's "shamed," there's a blot there --"I feel myself ashamed
Wery good
Go on
Feel myself ashamed, and completely cir --' I forget what this here word is
Why don't you look at it, then
So I am a-lookin' at it
but there's another blot. Here's a "c," and a "i," and a "d
Circumwented, p'raps
No, it ain't that
circumscribed"; that's it
That ain't as good a word as "circumwented," Sammy
Think not
Nothin' like it
But don't you think it means more
Vell p'raps it's a more tenderer word
Go on, Sammy
Feel myself ashamed and completely circumscribed in a- dressin' of you, for you are a nice gal and nothin' but it
That's a wery pretty sentiment
Yes, I think it is rayther good
is, that there ain't no callin' names in it -- no Wenuses, nor nothin' o' that kind. Wot's the good o' callin' a young 'ooman a Wenus or a angel, Sammy
Ah! what, indeed
You might jist as well call her a griffin, or a unicorn, or a king's arms at once, which is wery well known to be a collection o' fabulous animals
Just as well
Drive on, Sammy
Afore I see you, I thought all women was alike
So they are
But now
now I find what a reg'lar soft- headed, inkred'lous turnip I must ha' been; for there ain't nobody like you, though I like you better than nothin' at all." I thought it best to make that rayther strong
I am afeerd that werges on the poetical, Sammy
No, it don't
Except of me Mary my dear as your walentine and think over what I've said.-- My dear Mary I will now conclude." That's all
That's rather a Sudden pull-up, ain't it, Sammy
Not a bit on it
Well
ud only conduct her conwersation on the same gen-teel principle. Ain't you a-goin' to sign it
That's the difficulty
I don't know what to sign it
Sign it --"Veller
Won't do
Never sign a walentine with your own name
Sign it "Pickwick," then
it's a wery good name, and a easy one to spell
The wery thing
I COULD end with a werse; what do you think
I don't like it, Sam
cept one, as made an affectin' copy o' werses the night afore he was hung for a highway robbery; and he wos only a Cambervell man, so even that's no rule
Your love-sick Pickwick
The first matter relates to your governor, Sammy
He's a-goin' to be tried to-morrow, ain't he
The trial's a-comin' on
Vell
ud be this here -- never mind the character, and stick to the alleybi. Nothing like a alleybi, Sammy, nothing
Why, what do you mean
you don't think he's a-goin' to be tried at the Old Bailey, do you
That ain't no part of the present consideration, Sammy
pinion is, Sammy, that if your governor don't prove a alleybi, he'll be what the Italians call reg'larly flummoxed, and that's all about it
wictimised
That's a pint o' domestic policy, Sammy
This here Stiggins
Red-nosed man
The wery same
This here red-nosed man, Sammy, wisits your mother-in-law vith a kindness and constancy I never see equalled. He's sitch a friend o' the family, Sammy, that wen he's avay from us, he can't be comfortable unless he has somethin' to remember us by
ud turpentine and beeswax his memory for the next ten years or so, if I wos you
Stop a minute
I wos a-going to say, he always brings now, a flat bottle as holds about a pint and a half, and fills it vith the pine-apple rum afore he goes avay
Clean
Well
Well
you and I'll go, punctiwal to the time. The deputy- shepherd won't, Sammy; the deputy-shepherd won't
Well, I never see sitch an old ghost in all my born days
What are you a-laughin' at, corpilence
Hush! Sammy
Sammy
Be quiet, can't you
Sam
mark my vords, my boy. If that 'ere secretary fellow keeps on for only five minutes more, he'll blow hisself up with toast and water
Well, let him, if he likes
If this here lasts much longer, Sammy
ooman on the next form but two, as has drunk nine breakfast cups and a half; and she's a-swellin' wisibly before my wery eyes
Ladies and gentlemen, I move our excellent brother, Mr. Anthony Humm, into the chair
H. Walker, tailor, wife, and two children. When in better circumstances, owns to having been in the constant habit of drinking ale and beer; says he is not certain whether he did not twice a week, for twenty years, taste "dog's nose," which your committee find upon inquiry, to be compounded of warm porter, moist sugar, gin, and nutmeg (a groan, and 'So it is
Betsy Martin, widow, one child, and one eye. Goes out charing and washing, by the day; never had more than one eye, but knows her mother drank bottled stout, and shouldn't wonder if that caused it (immense cheering). Thinks it not impossible that if she had always abstained from spirits she might have had two eyes by this time (tremendous applause). Used, at every place she went to, to have eighteen-pence a day, a pint of porter, and a glass of spirits; but since she became a member of the Brick Lane Branch, has always demanded three-and-sixpence (the announcement of this most interesting fact was received with deafening enthusiasm). 'Henry Beller was for many years toast-master at various corporation dinners, during which time he drank a great deal of foreign wine; may sometimes have carried a bottle or two home with him; is not quite certain of that, but is sure if he did, that he drank the contents. Feels very low and melancholy, is very feverish, and has a constant thirst upon him; thinks it must be the wine he used to drink (cheers). Is out of employ now; and never touches a drop of foreign wine by any chance (tremendous plaudits). 

'Thomas Burton is purveyor of cat's meat to the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, and several members of the Common Council (the announcement of this gentleman's name was received with breathless interest). Has a wooden leg; finds a wooden leg expensive, going over the stones; used to wear second-hand wooden legs, and drink a glass of hot gin-and-water regularly every night -- sometimes two (deep sighs). Found the second-hand wooden legs split and rot very quickly; is firmly persuaded that their constitution was undermined by the gin-and-water (prolonged cheering). Buys new wooden legs now, and drinks nothing but water and weak tea. The new legs last twice as long as the others used to do, and he attributes this solely to his temperate habits (triumphant cheers
Who hasn't heard of a Jolly Young Waterman
Row along, thinking of nothing at all
The maidens all flocked to his boat so readily
He was always first oars with the fine city ladies
Wot does he mean by the soft sex, Sammy
The womin
He ain't far out there, Sammy
they MUST be a soft sex -- a wery soft sex, indeed -- if they let themselves be gammoned by such fellers as him
My friends
my friends, a delegate from the Dorking Branch of our society, Brother Stiggins, attends below
He may approach, I think
Brother Tadger, let him come forth and greet us
Don't say nothin' to me
for I can't bear it. He's close to the door. I hear him a-knockin' his head again the lath and plaster now
Are you unwell, Brother Stiggins
I am all right, Sir
I am all right, Sir
Oh, very well
I believe no man here has ventured to say that I am not all right, Sir
Oh, certainly not
I should advise him not to, Sir; I should advise him not
Will you address the meeting, brother
No, sir
No, sir. I will not, sir
It's my opinion, sir
it's my opinion, sir, that this meeting is drunk, sir. Brother Tadger, sir
YOU are drunk, sir
Now, Sammy
just you step out, and fetch in a watchman
And wot are you a-goin' to do, the while
Never you mind me, Sammy
I shall ockipy myself in havin' a small settlement with that 'ere Stiggins
Come off
Come on
I wonder what the foreman of the jury, whoever he'll be, has got for breakfast
Ah
I hope he's got a good one
Why so
Highly important -- very important, my dear Sir
A good, contented, well-breakfasted juryman is a capital thing to get hold of. Discontented or hungry jurymen, my dear sir, always find for the plaintiff
Bless my heart
what do they do that for
Why, I don't know
saves time, I suppose. If it's near dinner-time, the foreman takes out his watch when the jury has retired, and says, "Dear me, gentlemen, ten minutes to five, I declare! I dine at five, gentlemen." "So do I," says everybody else, except two men who ought to have dined at three and seem more than half disposed to stand out in consequence. The foreman smiles, and puts up his watch:-- "Well, gentlemen, what do we say, plaintiff or defendant, gentlemen? I rather think, so far as I am concerned, gentlemen,-- I say, I rather think -- but don't let that influence you -- I RATHER think the plaintiff's the man." Upon this, two or three other men are sure to say that they think so too -- as of course they do; and then they get on very unanimously and comfortably. Ten minutes past nine
Lowten
put Mr. Pickwick's friends in the students' box; Mr. Pickwick himself had better sit by me. This way, my dear sir, this way
That's the witness-box, I suppose
That's the witness-box, my dear sir
And that
that's where the jurymen sit, is it not
The identical place, my dear Sir
law calf
Who's that red-faced man, who said it was a fine morning, and nodded to our counsel
Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz
He's opposed to us; he leads on the other side. That gentleman behind him is Mr. Skimpin, his junior
Silence
Silence
Silence
Silence
Answer to your names, gentlemen, that you may be sworn
Richard Upwitch
Here
Thomas Groffin
Here
Take the book, gentlemen. You shall well and truly try
I beg this court's pardon
but I hope this court will excuse my attendance
On what grounds, Sir
I have no assistant, my Lord
I can't help that, Sir
You should hire one
I can't afford it, my Lord
Then you ought to be able to afford it, Sir
I know I OUGHT to do, if I got on as well as I deserved; but I don't, my Lord
Swear the gentleman
You shall well and truly try
I am to be sworn, my Lord, am I
Certainly, sir
Very well, my Lord
Then there'll be murder before this trial's over; that's all. Swear me, if you please, Sir
I merely wanted to observe, my Lord
that I've left nobody but an errand-boy in my shop. He is a very nice boy, my Lord, but he is not acquainted with drugs; and I know that the prevailing impression on his mind is, that Epsom salts means oxalic acid; and syrup of senna, laudanum. That's all, my Lord
Very good notion that indeed
Capital fellows those Dodson and Fogg; excellent ideas of effect, my dear Sir, excellent
Bardell and Pickwick
I am for the plaintiff, my Lord
Who is with you, Brother Buzfuz
I appear for the defendant, my Lord
Anybody with you, Brother Snubbin
Mr. Phunky, my Lord
Serjeant Buzfuz and Mr. Skimpin for the plaintiff
for the defendant, Serjeant Snubbin and Mr. Monkey
Beg your Lordship's pardon, Phunky
Oh, very good
I never had the pleasure of hearing the gentleman's name before
Go on
You have heard from my learned friend, gentlemen
you have heard from my learned friend, gentlemen, that this is an action for a breach of promise of marriage, in which the damages are laid at #1,500. But you have not heard from my learned friend, inasmuch as it did not come within my learned friend's province to tell you, what are the facts and circumstances of the case. Those facts and circumstances, gentlemen, you shall hear detailed by me, and proved by the unimpeachable female whom I will place in that box before you
box
The plaintiff, gentlemen
the plaintiff is a widow; yes, gentlemen, a widow. The late Mr. Bardell, after enjoying, for many years, the esteem and confidence of his sovereign, as one of the guardians of his royal revenues, glided almost imperceptibly from the world, to seek elsewhere for that repose and peace which a custom-house can never afford
Some time before his death, he had stamped his likeness upon a little boy. With this little boy, the only pledge of her departed exciseman, Mrs. Bardell shrank from the world, and courted the retirement and tranquillity of Goswell Street; and here she placed in her front parlour window a written placard, bearing this inscription --"Apartments furnished for a single gentleman. Inquire within
There is no date to that, is there
There is no date, gentlemen
but I am instructed to say that it was put in the plaintiff's parlour window just this time three years. I entreat the attention of the jury to the wording of this document --"Apartments furnished for a single gentleman"! Mrs. Bardell's opinions of the opposite sex, gentlemen, were derived from a long contemplation of the inestimable qualities of her lost husband. She had no fear, she had no distrust, she had no suspicion; all was confidence and reliance. "Mr. Bardell," said the widow --"Mr. Bardell was a man of honour, Mr. Bardell was a man of his word, Mr. Bardell was no deceiver, Mr. Bardell was once a single gentleman himself; to single gentlemen I look for protection, for assistance, for comfort, and for consolation; in single gentlemen I shall perpetually see something to remind me of what Mr. Bardell was when he first won my young and untried affections; to a single gentleman, then, shall my lodgings be let." Actuated by this beautiful and touching impulse (among the best impulses of our imperfect nature, gentlemen), the lonely and desolate widow dried her tears, furnished her first floor, caught her innocent boy to her maternal bosom, and put the bill up in her parlour window. Did it remain there long? No. The serpent was on the watch, the train was laid, the mine was preparing, the sapper and miner was at work. Before the bill had been in the parlour window three days -- three days, gentlemen -- a being, erect upon two legs, and bearing all the outward semblance of a man, and not of a monster, knocked at the door of Mrs. Bardell's house. He inquired within -- he took the lodgings; and on the very next day he entered into possession of them. This man was Pickwick -- Pickwick, the defendant
Of this man Pickwick I will say little; the subject presents but few attractions; and I, gentlemen, am not the man, nor are you, gentlemen, the men, to delight in the contemplation of revolting heartlessness, and of systematic villainy
I say systematic villainy, gentlemen
and when I say systematic villainy, let me tell the defendant Pickwick, if he be in court, as I am informed he is, that it would have been more decent in him, more becoming, in better judgment, and in better taste, if he had stopped away. Let me tell him, gentlemen, that any gestures of dissent or disapprobation in which he may indulge in this court will not go down with you; that you will know how to value and how to appreciate them; and let me tell him further, as my Lord will tell you, gentlemen, that a counsel, in the discharge of his duty to his client, is neither to be intimidated nor bullied, nor put down; and that any attempt to do either the one or the other, or the first, or the last, will recoil on the head of the attempter, be he plaintiff or be he defendant, be his name Pickwick, or Noakes, or Stoakes, or Stiles, or Brown, or Thompson
I shall show you, gentlemen, that for two years, Pickwick continued to reside constantly, and without interruption or intermission, at Mrs. Bardell's house. I shall show you that Mrs. Bardell, during the whole of that time, waited on him, attended to his comforts, cooked his meals, looked out his linen for the washerwoman when it went abroad, darned, aired, and prepared it for wear, when it came home, and, in short, enjoyed his fullest trust and confidence. I shall show you that, on many occasions, he gave halfpence, and on some occasions even sixpences, to her little boy; and I shall prove to you, by a witness whose testimony it will be impossible for my learned friend to weaken or controvert, that on one occasion he patted the boy on the head, and, after inquiring whether he had won any "ALLEY TORS" or "COMMONEYS" lately (both of which I understand to be a particular species of marbles much prized by the youth of this town), made use of this remarkable expression, "How should you like to have another father?" I shall prove to you, gentlemen, that about a year ago, Pickwick suddenly began to absent himself from home, during long intervals, as if with the intention of gradually breaking off from my client; but I shall show you also, that his resolution was not at that time sufficiently strong, or that his better feelings conquered, if better feelings he has, or that the charms and accomplishments of my client prevailed against his unmanly intentions, by proving to you, that on one occasion, when he returned from the country, he distinctly and in terms, offered her marriage: previously, however, taking special care that there would be no witness to their solemn contract; and I am in a situation to prove to you, on the testimony of three of his own friends -- most unwilling witnesses, gentlemen -- most unwilling witnesses -- that on that morning he was discovered by them holding the plaintiff in his arms, and soothing her agitation by his caresses and endearments
But enough of this, gentlemen
it is difficult to smile with an aching heart; it is ill jesting when our deepest sympathies are awakened. My client's hopes and prospects are ruined, and it is no figure of speech to say that her occupation is gone indeed. The bill is down -- but there is no tenant. Eligible single gentlemen pass and repass-but there is no invitation for to inquire within or without. All is gloom and silence in the house; even the voice of the child is hushed; his infant sports are disregarded when his mother weeps; his "alley tors" and his "commoneys" are alike neglected; he forgets the long familiar cry of "knuckle down," and at tip-cheese, or odd and even, his hand is out. But Pickwick, gentlemen, Pickwick, the ruthless destroyer of this domestic oasis in the desert of Goswell Street -- Pickwick who has choked up the well, and thrown ashes on the sward -- Pickwick, who comes before you to-day with his heartless tomato sauce and warming-pans -- Pickwick still rears his head with unblushing effrontery, and gazes without a sigh on the ruin he has made. Damages, gentlemen -- heavy damages is the only punishment with which you can visit him; the only recompense you can award to my client. And for those damages she now appeals to an enlightened, a high-minded, a right-feeling, a conscientious, a dispassionate, a sympathising, a contemplative jury of her civilised countrymen
Call Elizabeth Cluppins
Mrs. Cluppins
pray compose yourself, ma'am
Do you recollect, Mrs. Cluppins
do you recollect being in Mrs. Bardell's back one pair of stairs, on one particular morning in July last, when she was dusting Pickwick's apartment
Yes, my Lord and jury, I do
Mr. Pickwick's sitting-room was the first-floor front, I believe
Yes, it were, Sir
What were you doing in the back room, ma'am
My Lord and jury
I will not deceive you
You had better not, ma'am
I was there
On the what
Partly open, my Lord
She said on the jar
It's all the same, my Lord
And you listened, I believe, Mrs. Cluppins
Beggin' your pardon, Sir
I would scorn the haction. The voices was very loud, Sir, and forced themselves upon my ear
Well, Mrs. Cluppins, you were not listening, but you heard the voices. Was one of those voices Pickwick's
Yes, it were, Sir
Nathaniel Winkle
Here
Don't look at me, Sir
look at the jury
Now, Sir
have the goodness to let his Lordship know what your name is, will you
Winkle
What's your Christian name, Sir
Nathaniel, Sir
Daniel -- any other name
Nathaniel, sir -- my Lord, I mean
Nathaniel Daniel, or Daniel Nathaniel
No, my Lord, only Nathaniel -- not Daniel at all
What did you tell me it was Daniel for, then, sir
I didn't, my Lord
You did, Sir
How could I have got Daniel on my notes, unless you told me so, Sir
Mr. Winkle has rather a short memory, my Lord
We shall find means to refresh it before we have quite done with him, I dare say
You had better be careful, Sir
Now, Mr. Winkle
attend to me, if you please, Sir; and let me recommend you, for your own sake, to bear in mind his Lordship's injunctions to be careful. I believe you are a particular friend of Mr. Pickwick, the defendant, are you not
I have known Mr. Pickwick now, as well as I recollect at this moment, nearly
Pray, Mr. Winkle, do not evade the question. Are you, or are you not, a particular friend of the defendant's
I was just about to say, that
Will you, or will you not, answer my question, Sir
If you don't answer the question, you'll be committed, Sir
Come, Sir
yes or no, if you please
Yes, I am
Yes, you are. And why couldn't you say that at once, Sir? Perhaps you know the plaintiff too? Eh, Mr. Winkle
I don't know her; I've seen her
Oh, you don't know her, but you've seen her? Now, have the goodness to tell the gentlemen of the jury what you mean by that, Mr. Winkle
I mean that I am not intimate with her, but I have seen her when I went to call on Mr. Pickwick, in Goswell Street
How often have you seen her, Sir
How often
Yes, Mr. Winkle, how often? I'll repeat the question for you a dozen times, if you require it, Sir
Certainly -- more than that
Pray, Mr. Winkle, do you remember calling on the defendant Pickwick at these apartments in the plaintiff's house in Goswell Street, on one particular morning, in the month of July last
Yes, I do
Were you accompanied on that occasion by a friend of the name of Tupman, and another by the name of Snodgrass
Yes, I was
Are they here
Yes, they are
Pray attend to me, Mr. Winkle, and never mind your friends
They must tell their stories without any previous consultation with you, if none has yet taken place (another look at the jury). Now, Sir, tell the gentlemen of the jury what you saw on entering the defendant's room, on this particular morning. Come; out with it, Sir; we must have it, sooner or later
The defendant, Mr. Pickwick, was holding the plaintiff in his arms, with his hands clasping her waist
and the plaintiff appeared to have fainted away
Did you hear the defendant say anything
I heard him call Mrs. Bardell a good creature, and I heard him ask her to compose herself, for what a situation it was, if anybody should come, or words to that effect
Now, Mr. Winkle, I have only one more question to ask you, and I beg you to bear in mind his Lordship's caution. Will you undertake to swear that Pickwick, the defendant, did not say on the occasion in question -- "My dear Mrs. Bardell, you're a good creature; compose yourself to this situation, for to this situation you must come," or words to that effect
I -- I didn't understand him so, certainly
I was on the staircase, and couldn't hear distinctly; the impression on my mind is
The gentlemen of the jury want none of the impressions on your mind, Mr. Winkle, which I fear would be of little service to honest, straightforward men
You were on the staircase, and didn't distinctly hear; but you will not swear that Pickwick did not make use of the expressions I have quoted? Do I understand that
No, I will not
I believe, Mr. Winkle
that Mr. Pickwick is not a young man
Oh, no
old enough to be my father
You have told my learned friend that you have known Mr. Pickwick a long time. Had you ever any reason to suppose or believe that he was about to be married
Oh, no; certainly not
I will even go further than this, Mr. Winkle
Did you ever see anything in Mr. Pickwick's manner and conduct towards the opposite sex, to induce you to believe that he ever contemplated matrimony of late years, in any case
Oh, no; certainly not
Has his behaviour, when females have been in the case, always been that of a man, who, having attained a pretty advanced period of life, content with his own occupations and amusements, treats them only as a father might his daughters
Not the least doubt of it
That is -- yes -- oh, yes -- certainly
You have never known anything in his behaviour towards Mrs. Bardell, or any other female, in the least degree suspicious
N-n-no
except on one trifling occasion, which, I have no doubt, might be easily explained
Stay, Mr. Winkle, stay
will your Lordship have the goodness to ask him, what this one instance of suspicious behaviour towards females on the part of this gentleman, who is old enough to be his father, was
You hear what the learned counsel says, Sir
Describe the occasion to which you refer
My Lord
I -- I'd rather not
Perhaps so
but you must
You may leave the box, Sir
commoney
duck
chops
tomato sauce
Call Samuel Weller
What's your name, sir
Sam Weller, my Lord
Do you spell it with a "V" or a "W
That depends upon the taste and fancy of the speller, my Lord
Quite right too, Samivel, quite right. Put it down a "we," my Lord, put it down a "we
Who is that, who dares address the court
Usher
Yes, my Lord
Bring that person here instantly
Yes, my Lord
Do you know who that was, sir
I rayther suspect it was my father, my lord
Do you see him here now
No, I don't, my Lord
If you could have pointed him out, I would have committed him instantly
Now, Mr. Weller
Now, sir
I believe you are in the service of Mr. Pickwick, the defendant in this case? Speak up, if you please, Mr. Weller
I mean to speak up, Sir
I am in the service o' that 'ere gen'l'man, and a wery good service it is
Little to do, and plenty to get, I suppose
Oh, quite enough to get, Sir, as the soldier said ven they ordered him three hundred and fifty lashes
You must not tell us what the soldier, or any other man, said, Sir
it's not evidence
Wery good, my Lord
Do you recollect anything particular happening on the morning when you were first engaged by the defendant; eh, Mr. Weller
Yes, I do, sir
Have the goodness to tell the jury what it was
said Sam, 'and that was a wery partickler and uncommon circumstance vith me in those days
You had better be careful, Sir
So Mr. Pickwick said at the time, my Lord
and I was wery careful o' that 'ere suit o' clothes; wery careful indeed, my Lord
Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Weller
do you mean to tell me, Mr. Weller, that you saw nothing of this fainting on the part of the plaintiff in the arms of the defendant, which you have heard described by the witnesses
Certainly not
I was in the passage till they called me up, and then the old lady was not there
Now, attend, Mr. Weller
You were in the passage, and yet saw nothing of what was going forward. Have you a pair of eyes, Mr. Weller
Yes, I have a pair of eyes
and that's just it. If they wos a pair o' patent double million magnifyin' gas microscopes of hextra power, p'raps I might be able to see through a flight o' stairs and a deal door; but bein' only eyes, you see, my wision 's limited
Now, Mr. Weller, I'll ask you a question on another point, if you please
If you please, Sir
Do you remember going up to Mrs. Bardell's house, one night in November last
Oh, yes, wery well
Oh, you do remember that, Mr. Weller
I thought we should get at something at last
I rayther thought that, too, sir
Well; I suppose you went up to have a little talk about this trial -- eh, Mr. Weller
I went up to pay the rent; but we did get a-talkin' about the trial
Oh, you did get a-talking about the trial
Vith all the pleasure in life, sir
Arter a few unimportant obserwations from the two wirtuous females as has been examined here to-day, the ladies gets into a very great state o' admiration at the honourable conduct of Mr. Dodson and Fogg -- them two gen'l'men as is settin' near you now
The attorneys for the plaintiff
Well! They spoke in high praise of the honourable conduct of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, the attorneys for the plaintiff, did they
Yes
they said what a wery gen'rous thing it was o' them to have taken up the case on spec, and to charge nothing at all for costs, unless they got 'em out of Mr. Pickwick
You are quite right
It's perfectly useless, my Lord, attempting to get at any evidence through the impenetrable stupidity of this witness. I will not trouble the court by asking him any more questions. Stand down, sir
Not I, Mr. Weller, thank you
You may go down, sir
I have no objection to admit, my Lord
if it will save the examination of another witness, that Mr. Pickwick has retired from business, and is a gentleman of considerable independent property
Very well
then that's my case, my Lord
Gentlemen
are you all agreed upon your verdict
We are
Do you find for the plaintiff, gentlemen, or for the defendant
For the plaintiff
With what damages, gentlemen
Seven hundred and fifty pounds
Well, gentlemen
Well, Sir
You imagine you'll get your costs, don't you, gentlemen
You may try, and try, and try again, Messrs. Dodson and Fogg
but not one farthing of costs or damages do you ever get from me, if I spend the rest of my existence in a debtor's prison
Ha! ha
You'll think better of that, before next term, Mr. Pickwick
He, he, he! We'll soon see about that, Mr. Pickwick
ud come o' this here mode o' doin' bisness. Oh, Sammy, Sammy, vy worn't there a alleybi
But surely, my dear sir
surely you don't really mean -- really and seriously now, and irritation apart -- that you won't pay these costs and damages
Not one halfpenny
not one halfpenny
Hooroar for the principle, as the money-lender said ven he vouldn't renew the bill
Sam
have the goodness to step downstairs
No, Perker
my friends here have endeavoured to dissuade me from this determination, but without avail. I shall employ myself as usual, until the opposite party have the power of issuing a legal process of execution against me; and if they are vile enough to avail themselves of it, and to arrest my person, I shall yield myself up with perfect cheerfulness and content of heart. When can they do this
They can issue execution, my dear Sir, for the amount of the damages and taxed costs, next term
just two months hence, my dear sir
Very good
Until that time, my dear fellow, let me hear no more of the matter. And now
the only question is, Where shall we go next
Well
if you leave me to suggest our destination, I say Bath. I think none of us have ever been there
change
Waiter
Sir
Some more toast
Yes, sir
Buttered toast, mind
Directly, sir
I wonder whereabouts in Bath this coach puts up
Hum -- eh -- what's that
I made an observation to my friend, sir
I wondered at what house the Bath coach put up. Perhaps you can inform me
Are you going to Bath
I am, sir
And those other gentlemen
They are going also
Not inside -- I'll be damned if you're going inside
Not all of us
No, not all of you
I've taken two places. If they try to squeeze six people into an infernal box that only holds four, I'll take a post-chaise and bring an action. I've paid my fare. It won't do; I told the clerk when I took my places that it wouldn't do. I know these things have been done. I know they are done every day; but I never was done, and I never will be. Those who know me best, best know it; crush me
My good sir
you will allow me to observe that this is a very unnecessary display of excitement. I have only taken places inside for two
I am glad to hear it
I withdraw my expressions. I tender an apology. There's my card. Give me your acquaintance
With great pleasure, Sir
We are to be fellow-travellers, and I hope we shall find each other's society mutually agreeable
I hope we shall
I know we shall. I like your looks; they please me. Gentlemen, your hands and names. Know me
She's a fine woman
I am proud of her. I have reason
I hope I shall have the pleasure of judging
You shall
She shall know you. She shall esteem you. I courted her under singular circumstances. I won her through a rash vow. Thus. I saw her; I loved her; I proposed; she refused me.-- "You love another?"--"Spare my blushes."-- "I know him."--"You do."--"Very good; if he remains here, I'll skin him
Lord bless me
Did you skin the gentleman, Sir
I wrote him a note, I said it was a painful thing. And so it was
Certainly
I said I had pledged my word as a gentleman to skin him. My character was at stake. I had no alternative. As an officer in His Majesty's service, I was bound to skin him. I regretted the necessity, but it must be done. He was open to conviction. He saw that the rules of the service were imperative. He fled. I married her. Here's the coach. That's her head
Well, Sam
what's the matter now
Here's rayther a rum go, sir
What
This here, Sir
I'm wery much afeerd, sir, that the properiator o' this here coach is a playin' some imperence vith us
How is that, Sam
aren't the names down on the way-bill
The names is not only down on the vay-bill, Sir
but they've painted vun on 'em up, on the door o' the coach
Dear me
what a very extraordinary thing
Yes, but that ain't all
not content vith writin' up "Pick- wick," they puts "Moses" afore it, vich I call addin' insult to injury, as the parrot said ven they not only took him from his native land, but made him talk the English langwidge arterwards
It's odd enough, certainly, Sam
but if we stand talking here, we shall lose our places
Wot, ain't nothin' to be done in consequence, sir
Done
What should be done
Ain't nobody to be whopped for takin' this here liberty, sir
Certainly not
not on any account. Jump up to your seat directly
I am wery much afeered
that somethin' queer's come over the governor, or he'd never ha' stood this so quiet. I hope that 'ere trial hasn't broke his spirit, but it looks bad, wery bad
Mr. Pickwick
my friend, Angelo Cyrus Bantam, Esquire, M.C.; Bantam; Mr. Pickwick. Know each other
Welcome to Ba-ath, Sir. This is indeed an acquisition. Most welcome to Ba-ath, sir. It is long -- very long, Mr. Pickwick, since you drank the waters. It appears an age, Mr. Pickwick. Re-markable
It is a very long time since I drank the waters, certainly
for, to the best of my knowledge, I was never here before
Never in Ba-ath, Mr. Pickwick
Never in Ba-ath! He! he! Mr. Pickwick, you are a wag. Not bad, not bad. Good, good. He! he! he! Re-markable
To my shame, I must say that I am perfectly serious
I really never was here before
Oh, I see
yes, yes -- good, good -- better and better. You are the gentleman of whom we have heard. Yes; we know you, Mr. Pickwick; we know you
The reports of the trial in those confounded papers
They have heard all about me
You are the gentleman residing on Clapham Green
who lost the use of his limbs from imprudently taking cold after port wine; who could not be moved in consequence of acute suffering, and who had the water from the king's bath bottled at one hundred and three degrees, and sent by wagon to his bedroom in town, where he bathed, sneezed, and the same day recovered. Very remarkable
Bantam
Mr. Pickwick and his friends are strangers. They must put their names down. Where's the book
Will you guide our friends to that splendid building, and enable me to procure their autographs
I will
This is a long call. It's time to go. I shall be here again in an hour. Come
This is a ball-night
The ball-nights in Ba-ath are moments snatched from paradise; rendered bewitching by music, beauty, elegance, fashion, etiquette, and -- and -- above all, by the absence of tradespeople, who are quite inconsistent with paradise, and who have an amalgamation of themselves at the Guildhall every fortnight, which is, to say the least, remarkable. Good-bye, good-bye
is this here Mr. Bantam's, old feller
Why, young man
Wery good
You dine early, sir
I find I gets on better at supper when I does
Have you been long in Bath, sir
I have not had the pleasure of hearing of you before
I haven't created any wery surprisin' sensation here, as yet
Nice place, Sir
Seems so
Pleasant society, sir
Very agreeable servants, sir
I should think they wos
Oh, very much so, indeed, sir
Very much so indeed. Do you do anything in this way, Sir
Not without sneezing
Why, it IS difficult, sir, I confess
It may be done by degrees, Sir. Coffee is the best practice. I carried coffee, Sir, for a long time. It looks very like rappee, sir
study
There is the answer, sir
I'm afraid you'll find it inconveniently large
Don't mention it
It's just possible as exhausted natur' may manage to surwive it
I hope we shall meet again, Sir
A very singular young man that
Stop in the tea-room. Take your sixpenn'orth. Then lay on hot water, and call it tea. Drink it
My dear Sir, I am highly honoured. Ba-ath is favoured. Mrs. Dowler, you embellish the rooms. I congratulate you on your feathers. Re-markable
Anybody here
Anybody! The ELITE of Ba-ath. Mr. Pickwick, do you see the old lady in the gauze turban
The fat old lady
Hush, my dear sir -- nobody's fat or old in Ba-ath. That's the Dowager Lady Snuphanuph
Is it, indeed
No less a person, I assure you
Hush. Draw a little nearer, Mr. Pickwick. You see the splendidly-dressed young man coming this way
The one with the long hair, and the particularly small forehead
The same. The richest young man in Ba-ath at this moment. Young Lord Mutanhed
You don't say so
Yes. You'll hear his voice in a moment, Mr. Pickwick. He'll speak to me. The other gentleman with him, in the red under- waistcoat and dark moustache, is the Honourable Mr. Crushton, his bosom friend. How do you do, my Lord
Veway hot, Bantam
It IS very warm, my Lord
Confounded
Have you seen his Lordship's mail-cart, Bantam
Dear me, no
Gwacious heavens
I thought evewebody had seen the new mail-cart; it's the neatest, pwettiest, gwacefullest thing that ever wan upon wheels. Painted wed, with a cweam piebald
With a real box for the letters, and all complete
And a little seat in fwont, with an iwon wail, for the dwiver
I dwove it over to Bwistol the other morning, in a cwimson coat, with two servants widing a quarter of a mile behind; and confound me if the people didn't wush out of their cottages, and awest my pwogwess, to know if I wasn't the post. Glorwious -- glorwious
Delightful young man, his Lordship
So I should think
My dear Bantam
find us some nice creature to make up this table; there's a good soul
My friend Mr. Pickwick, my Lady, will be most happy, I am sure, remarkably so
Mr. Pickwick, Lady Snuphanuph -- Mrs. Colonel Wugsby -- Miss Bolo
Now, Jane
what is it
I came to ask, ma, whether I might dance with the youngest Mr. Crawley
Good God, Jane, how can you think of such things
Haven't you repeatedly heard that his father has eight hundred a year, which dies with him? I am ashamed of you. Not on any account
Ma
Lord Mutanhed has been introduced to me. I said I thought I wasn't engaged, ma
You're a sweet pet, my love
and are always to be trusted. He's immensely rich, my dear. Bless you
Beg your pardon, Sir
but did you want anything more, sir
Nothing more, ma'am
My young girl is gone to bed, Sir
and Mr. Dowler is good enough to say that he'll sit up for Mrs. Dowler, as the party isn't expected to be over till late; so I was thinking that if you wanted nothing more, Mr. Pickwick, I would go to bed
By all means, ma'am
Wish you good-night, Sir
Good-night, ma'am
But, in the midst of all this festivity and rejoicing, there was one individual present, who tasted not when the sparkling wines were poured forth, and who danced not, when the minstrels played. This was no other than Prince Bladud himself, in honour of whose happiness a whole people were, at that very moment, straining alike their throats and purse-strings. The truth was, that the prince, forgetting the undoubted right of the minister for foreign affairs to fall in love on his behalf, had, contrary to every precedent of policy and diplomacy, already fallen in love on his own account, and privately contracted himself unto the fair daughter of a noble Athenian. 'Here we have a striking example of one of the manifold advantages of civilisation and refinement. If the prince had lived in later days, he might at once have married the object of his father's choice, and then set himself seriously to work, to relieve himself of the burden which rested heavily upon him. He might have endeavoured to break her heart by a systematic course of insult and neglect; or, if the spirit of her sex, and a proud consciousness of her many wrongs had upheld her under this ill-treatment, he might have sought to take her life, and so get rid of her effectually. But neither mode of relief suggested itself to Prince Bladud; so he solicited a private audience, and told his father. 

'it is an old prerogative of kings to govern everything but their passions. King Lud flew into a frightful rage, tossed his crown up to the ceiling, and caught it again -- for in those days kings kept their crowns on their heads, and not in the Tower -- stamped the ground, rapped his forehead, wondered why his own flesh and blood rebelled against him, and, finally, calling in his guards, ordered the prince away to instant Confinement in a lofty turret; a course of treatment which the kings of old very generally pursued towards their sons, when their matrimonial inclinations did not happen to point to the same quarter as their own. 

'When Prince Bladud had been shut up in the lofty turret for the greater part of a year, with no better prospect before his bodily eyes than a stone wall, or before his mental vision than prolonged imprisonment, he naturally began to ruminate on a plan of escape, which, after months of preparation, he managed to accomplish; considerately leaving his dinner-knife in the heart of his jailer, lest the poor fellow (who had a family) should be considered privy to his flight, and punished accordingly by the infuriated king. 

'The monarch was frantic at the loss of his son. He knew not on whom to vent his grief and wrath, until fortunately bethinking himself of the lord chamberlain who had brought him home, he struck off his pension and his head together. 

'Meanwhile, the young prince, effectually disguised, wandered on foot through his father's dominions, cheered and supported in all his hardships by sweet thoughts of the Athenian maid, who was the innocent cause of his weary trials. One day he stopped to rest in a country village; and seeing that there were gay dances going forward on the green, and gay faces passing to and fro, ventured to inquire of a reveller who stood near him, the reason for this rejoicing. 

' "Know you not, O stranger," was the reply, "of the recent proclamation of our gracious king?" 

' "Proclamation! No. What proclamation?" rejoined the prince -- for he had travelled along the by and little-frequented ways, and knew nothing of what had passed upon the public roads, such as they were. 

' "Why," replied the peasant, "the foreign lady that our prince wished to wed, is married to a foreign noble of her own country, and the king proclaims the fact, and a great public festival besides; for now, of course, Prince Bladud will come back and marry the lady his father chose, who they say is as beautiful as the noonday sun. Your health, sir. God save the king!" 

'The prince remained to hear no more. He fled from the spot, and plunged into the thickest recesses of a neighbouring wood. On, on, he wandered, night and day; beneath the blazing sun, and the cold pale moon; through the dry heat of noon, and the damp cold of night; in the gray light of morn, and the red glare of eve. So heedless was he of time or object, that being bound for Athens, he wandered as far out of his way as Bath. 

'There was no city where Bath stands, then. There was no vestige of human habitation, or sign of man's resort, to bear the name; but there was the same noble country, the same broad expanse of hill and dale, the same beautiful channel stealing on, far away, the same lofty mountains which, like the troubles of life, viewed at a distance, and partially obscured by the bright mist of its morning, lose their ruggedness and asperity, and seem all ease and softness. Moved by the gentle beauty of the scene, the prince sank upon the green turf, and bathed his swollen feet in his tears. 

' "Oh!" said the unhappy Bladud, clasping his hands, and mournfully raising his eyes towards the sky, "would that my wanderings might end here! Would that these grateful tears with which I now mourn hope misplaced, and love despised, might flow in peace for ever!" 

'The wish was heard. It was in the time of the heathen deities, who used occasionally to take people at their words, with a promptness, in some cases, extremely awkward. The ground opened beneath the prince's feet; he sank into the chasm; and instantaneously it closed upon his head for ever, save where his hot tears welled up through the earth, and where they have continued to gush forth ever since. 

'It is observable that, to this day, large numbers of elderly ladies and gentlemen who have been disappointed in procuring partners, and almost as many young ones who are anxious to obtain them, repair annually to Bath to drink the waters, from which they derive much strength and comfort. This is most complimentary to the virtue of Prince Bladud's tears, and strongly corroborative of the veracity of this legend
Ah
going to bed? I wish I was. Dismal night. Windy; isn't it
Very
Good-night
Good-night
I'm a heavy sleeper
I must keep awake. I suppose I shall hear a knock here. Yes. I thought so. I can hear the watchman. There he goes. Fainter now, though. A little fainter. He's turning the corner. Ah
Servants is in the arms o' Porpus, I think
I wish he'd give 'em a squeeze and wake 'em
Knock again, will you, if you please
Knock two or three times, if you please
Dear me
You must knock again, if you please
There ain't a bell, is there, ma'am
Yes, there is
I've been a-ringing at it ever so long
It's only a handle
the wire's broken
I wish the servants' heads wos
I must trouble you to knock again, if you please
Rap rap-rap rap-rap rap-ra, ra, ra, ra, ra, rap
Here's somebody comin' at last, ma'am
I wish I wos behind him vith a bradawl
Who's there
Don't stop to ask questions, cast-iron head
but open the door
Come, look sharp, timber eyelids
Well, young man, now you HAVE done it
Take it away, take it away
Here's somebody coming out of another house; put me into the chair. Hide me! Do something with me
The people are coming down the crescent now. There are ladies with 'em; cover me up with something. Stand before me
Watchman
stop him -- hold him -- keep him tight -- shut him in, till I come down. I'll cut his throat -- give me a knife -- from ear to ear, Mrs. Craddock -- I will
Mr. Weller
here's a letter for you
Wery odd that
Perhaps something uncommon has taken place
It must be somethin' wery uncommon indeed, as could perduce a letter out o' any friend o' mine
cos he learnt writin' from the large bills in the booking-offices. It's a wery strange thing now, where this here letter can ha' come from
It's wrote on gilt-edged paper
and sealed in bronze vax vith the top of a door key. Now for it
JOHN SMAUKER
airy bell
Vell
this is comin' it rayther powerful, this is. I never heerd a biled leg o' mutton called a swarry afore. I wonder wot they'd call a roast one
How do you do, Mr. Weller
How do you do, Sir
Why, reasonably conwalessent
How do YOU find yourself, my dear feller
Only so so
Ah, you've been a-workin' too hard
I was fearful you would; it won't do, you know; you must not give way to that 'ere uncompromisin' spirit o' yourn
It's not so much that, Mr. Weller
as bad wine; I'm afraid I've been dissipating
Oh! that's it, is it
that's a wery bad complaint, that
And yet the temptation, you see, Mr. Weller
Ah, to be sure
Plunged into the very vortex of society, you know, Mr. Weller
Dreadful, indeed
But it's always the way
if your destiny leads you into public life, and public station, you must expect to be subjected to temptations which other people is free from, Mr. Weller
Precisely what my uncle said, ven he vent into the public line
Perhaps we had better be walking
P'raps we had
or they'll overdo the swarry, and that'll spile it
Have you drank the waters, Mr. Weller
Once
What did you think of 'em, Sir
I thought they was particklery unpleasant
Ah
you disliked the killibeate taste, perhaps
I don't know much about that 'ere
I thought they'd a wery strong flavour o' warm flat irons
That IS the killibeate, Mr. Weller
Well, if it is, it's a wery inexpressive word, that's all
It may be, but I ain't much in the chimical line myself, so I can't say
I beg your pardon, Mr. Weller
will you take my arm
Thank'ee, you're wery good, but I won't deprive you of it
I've rayther a way o' putting my hands in my pockets, if it's all the same to you
This way
we shall soon be there
Shall we
Yes
Don't be alarmed, Mr. Weller
Oh, no
You'll see some very handsome uniforms, Mr. Weller
and perhaps you'll find some of the gentlemen rather high at first, you know, but they'll soon come round
That's wery kind on 'em
And you know
you know, as you're a stranger, perhaps, they'll be rather hard upon you at first
They won't be wery cruel, though, will they
No, no
There are some funny dogs among us, and they will have their joke, you know; but you mustn't mind 'em, you mustn't mind 'em
I'll try and bear up agin such a reg'lar knock down o' talent
That's right
I'll stand by you
Smauker, my lad, your fin
Well, they tell me I am looking pretty blooming
and it's a wonder, too. I've been following our old woman about, two hours a day, for the last fortnight; and if a constant contemplation of the manner in which she hooks-and-eyes that infernal lavender- coloured old gown of hers behind, isn't enough to throw anybody into a low state of despondency for life, stop my quarter's salary
By the bye
Smauker, my boy, you
Oh, dear me, I quite forgot
Gentlemen, my friend Mr. Weller
Sorry to keep the fire off you, Weller
Hope you're not cold, Weller
Not by no means, Blazes
Wery much obliged for your good opinion, sir
We shall get on by degrees, I des-say. We'll try a better one by and bye
Harris
Sir
Have you got your gloves on
Yes, Sir
Then take the kiver off
Yes, Sir
What do you mean by that, Sir
I beg your pardon, Sir
I didn't mean to do it, Sir; I was up very late last night, Sir
I tell you what my opinion of you is, Harris
you're a wulgar beast
I hope, gentlemen
that you won't be severe with me, gentlemen. I am very much obliged to you indeed, gentlemen, for your patronage, and also for your recommendations, gentlemen, whenever additional assistance in waiting is required. I hope, gentlemen, I give satisfaction
No, you don't, Sir
Very far from it, Sir
We consider you an inattentive reskel
And a low thief
And an unreclaimable blaygaird
Against the rules
Too late, too late
No, no; positively I couldn't help it
I appeal to the company. An affair of gallantry now, an appointment at the theayter
Oh, that indeed
Yes; raly now, honour bright
I made a promese to fetch our youngest daughter at half-past ten, and she is such an uncauminly fine gal, that I raly hadn't the 'art to disappint her. No offence to the present company, Sir, but a petticut, sir -- a petticut, Sir, is irrevokeable
I begin to suspect there's something in that quarter
I've remarked, once or twice, that she leans very heavy on your shoulder when she gets in and out of the carriage
Oh, raly, raly, Tuckle, you shouldn't
It's not fair. I may have said to one or two friends that she wos a very divine creechure, and had refused one or two offers without any hobvus cause, but -- no, no, no, indeed, Tuckle -- before strangers, too -- it's not right -- you shouldn't. Delicacy, my dear friend, delicacy
Your health, Sir
I like your conversation much. I think it's wery pretty
You're wery good, sir
What a lucky feller you are
How do you mean
That 'ere young lady
I'm afraid your a cunning fellow, Mr. Weller
No, no
Well, well, Mr. Weller
I think she has remarked my air and manner, Mr. Weller
I should think she couldn't wery well be off o' that
Have you any little thing of that kind in hand, sir
Not exactly
There's no daughters at my place, else o' course I should ha' made up to vun on 'em. As it is, I don't think I can do with anythin' under a female markis. I might keep up with a young 'ooman o' large property as hadn't a title, if she made wery fierce love to me. Not else
Of course not, Mr. Weller
one can't be troubled, you know; and WE know, Mr. Weller -- we, who are men of the world -- that a good uniform must work its way with the women, sooner or later. In fact, that's the only thing, between you and me, that makes the service worth entering into
Just so
That's it, o' course
cold shrub and water
desp'rate willin
Gentlemen
I'll give you the ladies; come
Hear, hear
The young mississes
Order
Which word was that 'ere, Sir
Mississes, Sir
We don't recognise such distinctions here
Oh, wery good
then I'll amend the obserwation and call 'em the dear creeturs, if Blazes vill allow me
Blazes
I feel a great delicacy, gentlemen, in coming for'ard
having the misforchune to be a coachman, and being only admitted as a honorary member of these agreeable swarrys, but I do feel myself bound, gentlemen -- drove into a corner, if I may use the expression -- to make known an afflicting circumstance which has come to my knowledge; which has happened I may say within the soap of my everyday contemplation. Gentlemen, our friend Mr. Whiffers (everybody looked at the individual in orange), our friend Mr. Whiffers has resigned
You may well be sapparised, gentlemen
I will not wenchure to state the reasons of this irrepairabel loss to the service, but I will beg Mr. Whiffers to state them himself, for the improvement and imitation of his admiring friends
Shame
Wery much obliged to you, old fellers
Wy, you don't mean to say you're a-goin' old feller
I must, indeed
I promised Bantam
Oh, wery well
Yes, I am
Wot, and leave three-quarters of a bowl of punch behind you
nonsense, set down agin
Sam
shut the door
There was an unfortunate occurrence here, last night, Sam
which gave Mr. Winkle some cause to apprehend violence from Mr. Dowler
So I've heerd from the old lady downstairs, Sir
And I'm sorry to say, Sam
that in dread of this violence, Mr. Winkle has gone away
Gone avay
Left the house early this morning, without the slightest previous communication with me
And is gone, I know not where
He should ha' stopped and fought it out, Sir
It wouldn't take much to settle that 'ere Dowler, Sir
Well, Sam
I may have my doubts of his great bravery and determination also. But however that may be, Mr. Winkle is gone. He must be found, Sam. Found and brought back to me
He must be made, Sam
Who's to do it, Sir
You
Wery good, Sir
Sam
you're a capital fellow; an invaluable fellow. You must follow him, Sam
The instant you discover him, write to me immediately, Sam
If he attempts to run away from you, knock him down, or lock him up. You have my full authority, Sam
I'll be wery careful, sir
You'll tell him
that I am highly excited, highly displeased, and naturally indignant, at the very extraordinary course he has thought proper to pursue
I will, Sir
You'll tell him
that if he does not come back to this very house, with you, he will come back with me, for I will come and fetch him
I'll mention that 'ere, Sir
You think you can find him, Sam
Oh, I'll find him if he's anyvere
Very well
Then the sooner you go the better
Sir
Well, Sam
I fully understands my instructions, do I, Sir
I hope so
It's reg'larly understood about the knockin' down, is it, Sir
Perfectly
Thoroughly. Do what you think necessary. You have my orders
If
if this Dowler attempts (as I have no doubt he will) to carry into execution his threat of personal violence against myself, it will be incumbent on me to call him out. He has a wife; that wife is attached to, and dependent on him. Heavens! If I should kill him in the blindness of my wrath, what would be my feelings ever afterwards
I am sorry to trouble you, Sir
but will you have the goodness to direct me to
Ha! ha! ha
Here's a start
What, don't you know me
Why, then
there are hopes for me yet; I may attend half the old women in Bristol, if I've decent luck. Get out, you mouldy old villain, get out
You don't mean to say you weren't down upon me
Upon my word I was not
I wonder you didn't see the name
Sawyer, late Nockemorf
It never caught my eye
Lord, if I had known who you were, I should have rushed out, and caught you in my arms
but upon my life, I thought you were the King's-taxes
No
I did, indeed
and I was just going to say that I wasn't at home, but if you'd leave a message I'd be sure to give it to myself; for he don't know me; no more does the Lighting and Paving. I think the Church-rates guesses who I am, and I know the Water-works does, because I drew a tooth of his when I first came down here. But come in, come in
Well
This is indeed a pleasure I did not expect. What a very nice place you have here
Pretty well, pretty well
I PASSED, soon after that precious party, and my friends came down with the needful for this business; so I put on a black suit of clothes, and a pair of spectacles, and came here to look as solemn as I could
And a very snug little business you have, no doubt
Very
So snug, that at the end of a few years you might put all the profits in a wine-glass, and cover 'em over with a gooseberry leaf
You cannot surely mean that
The stock itself --' 'Dummies, my dear boy
half the drawers have nothing in 'em, and the other half don't open
Nonsense
Fact -- honour
Hardly anything real in the shop but the leeches, and THEY are second-hand
I shouldn't have thought it
I hope not
else where's the use of appearances, eh? But what will you take? Do as we do? That's right. Ben, my fine fellow, put your hand into the cupboard, and bring out the patent digester
You don't take water, of course
Thank you
It's rather early. I should like to qualify it, if you have no objection
None in the least, if you can reconcile it to your conscience
Ben, the pipkin
Soda Water
Tom, you vagabond, come here
You've been stopping to "over" all the posts in Bristol, you idle young scamp
No, sir, I haven't
You had better not
Who do you suppose will ever employ a professional man, when they see his boy playing at marbles in the gutter, or flying the garter in the horse-road? Have you no feeling for your profession, you groveller? Did you leave all the medicine
Yes, Sir
The powders for the child, at the large house with the new family, and the pills to be taken four times a day at the ill- tempered old gentleman's with the gouty leg
Yes, sir
Then shut the door, and mind the shop
Come
things are not quite so bad as you would have me believe, either. There is SOME medicine to be sent out
He leaves it all at the wrong houses
Don't you see
He goes up to a house, rings the area bell, pokes a packet of medicine without a direction into the servant's hand, and walks off. Servant takes it into the dining- parlour; master opens it, and reads the label: "Draught to be taken at bedtime -- pills as before -- lotion as usual -- the powder. From Sawyer's, late Nockemorf's. Physicians' prescriptions carefully prepared," and all the rest of it. Shows it to his wife -- she reads the label; it goes down to the servants -- THEY read the label. Next day, boy calls: "Very sorry -- his mistake -- immense business -- great many parcels to deliver -- Mr. Sawyer's compliments -- late Nockemorf." The name gets known, and that's the thing, my boy, in the medical way. Bless your heart, old fellow, it's better than all the advertising in the world. We have got one four-ounce bottle that's been to half the houses in Bristol, and hasn't done yet
Dear me, I see
what an excellent plan
Oh, Ben and I have hit upon a dozen such
The lamplighter has eighteenpence a week to pull the night-bell for ten minutes every time he comes round; and my boy always rushes into the church just before the psalms, when the people have got nothing to do but look about 'em, and calls me out, with horror and dismay depicted on his countenance. "Bless my soul," everybody says, "somebody taken suddenly ill! Sawyer, late Nockemorf, sent for. What a business that young man has
My dear friend
my dear friend, I am very miserable
Nothing, my dear boy, nothing
You recollect Arabella, Winkle? My sister Arabella -- a little girl, Winkle, with black eyes -- when we were down at Wardle's? I don't know whether you happened to notice her -- a nice little girl, Winkle. Perhaps my features may recall her countenance to your recollection
Our friend Bob is a delightful fellow, Winkle
Very
I designed 'em for each other; they were made for each other, sent into the world for each other, born for each other, Winkle
There's a special destiny in the matter, my dear sir; there's only five years' difference between 'em, and both their birthdays are in August
And I think
I think there's a prior attachment
Have you any idea who the object of it might be
I'd show him what I thought of him
No, no
I didn't think Wardle's exactly the place for a headstrong girl; so, as I am her natural protector and guardian, our parents being dead, I have brought her down into this part of the country to spend a few months at an old aunt's, in a nice, dull, close place. I think that will cure her, my boy. If it doesn't, I'll take her abroad for a little while, and see what that'll do
Oh, the aunt's is in Bristol, is it
No, no, not in Bristol
over that way -- down there. But, hush, here's Bob. Not a word, my dear friend, not a word
over that way
down there
in its native pewter
Mr. Winkle, Sir. Be calm. Don't strike me. I won't bear it. A blow! Never
A blow, Sir
A blow, Sir
Compose your feelings. Sit down. Hear me
Sir
before I consent to sit down beside, or opposite you, without the presence of a waiter, I must be secured by some further understanding. You used a threat against me last night, Sir, a dreadful threat, Sir
I did
Circumstances were suspicious. They have been explained. I respect your bravery. Your feeling is upright. Conscious innocence. There's my hand. Grasp it
Really, Sir
really, Sir, I
I know what you mean
You feel aggrieved. Very natural. So should I. I was wrong. I beg your pardon. Be friendly. Forgive me
Now
sit down. Relate it all. How did you find me? When did you follow? Be frank. Tell me
It's quite accidental
Quite
Glad of it
I woke this morning. I had forgotten my threat. I laughed at the accident. I felt friendly. I said so
To whom
To Mrs. Dowler. "You made a vow," said she. "I did," said I. "It was a rash one," said she. "It was," said I. "I'll apologise. Where is he
Who
You
I went downstairs. You were not to be found. Pickwick looked gloomy. Shook his head. Hoped no violence would be committed. I saw it all. You felt yourself insulted. You had gone, for a friend perhaps. Possibly for pistols. "High spirit," said I. "I admire him
I left a note for you
I said I was sorry. So I was. Pressing business called me here. You were not satisfied. You followed. You required a verbal explanation. You were right. It's all over now. My business is finished. I go back to-morrow. Join me
Please, Sir, here's a young man which says he must see you directly
A young man
No mistake about that 'ere, Sir
and if that wery same interestin' young creetur ain't let in vithout delay, it's wery possible as his legs vill enter afore his countenance
Is that you, Sam
What do you mean by this conduct, Sam
Get out, sir, this instant. What do you mean, Sir
What do I mean
un, that ain't
Unlock that door, and leave this room immediately, Sir
I shall leave this here room, sir, just precisely at the wery same moment as you leaves it
If I find it necessary to carry you away, pick-a-back, o' course I shall leave it the least bit o' time possible afore you; but allow me to express a hope as you won't reduce me to extremities; in saying wich, I merely quote wot the nobleman said to the fractious pennywinkle, ven he vouldn't come out of his shell by means of a pin, and he conseqvently began to be afeered that he should be obliged to crack him in the parlour door
You're a amiably-disposed young man, Sir, I don't think
to go inwolving our precious governor in all sorts o' fanteegs, wen he's made up his mind to go through everythink for principle. You're far worse nor Dodson, Sir; and as for Fogg, I consider him a born angel to you
My good fellow
my good fellow, I respect your attachment to my excellent friend, and I am very sorry indeed to have added to his causes for disquiet. There, Sam, there
Well
well, so you ought to be, and I am very glad to find you air; for, if I can help it, I won't have him put upon by nobody, and that's all about it
Certainly not, Sam
There! Now go to bed, Sam, and we'll talk further about this in the morning
I'm wery sorry
but I can't go to bed
Not go to bed
No
Can't be done
You don't mean to say you're going back to-night, Sam
Not unless you particklerly wish it
but I mustn't leave this here room. The governor's orders wos peremptory
Nonsense, Sam
I must stop here two or three days; and more than that, Sam, you must stop here too, to assist me in gaining an interview with a young lady -- Miss Allen, Sam; you remember her -- whom I must and will see before I leave Bristol
It can't be done
I quite forgot about the knockin' down
The governor distinctly said it was to be done. Amazin' stupid o' me, that 'ere! Never mind
it's easily done to-morrow, anyvays
I thought it better to come myself
to ascertain, before I gave my consent to Sam's employment in this matter, that you are quite in earnest and serious, with respect to this young lady
Serious, from my heart -- from my soul
Remember
we met her at our excellent and hospitable friend's, Winkle. It would be an ill return to tamper lightly, and without due consideration, with this young lady's affections. I'll not allow that, sir. I'll not allow it
I have no such intention, indeed
I have considered the matter well, for a long time, and I feel that my happiness is bound up in her
That's wot we call tying it up in a small parcel, sir
That he wouldn't, if he was aware on it; but there were so many on 'em, that he hardly know'd which was the best ones wen he heerd 'em mentioned
Arternoon, you mean
You're wery right, old friend
I DO mean arternoon. How are you
Why, I don't find myself much the better for seeing of you
That's wery odd -- that is
for you look so uncommon cheerful, and seem altogether so lively, that it does vun's heart good to see you
No, it ain't
Nor Brown, I s'pose?' said Sam. 'No, it ain't
Nor Vilson
No; nor that @ither
Vell
then I'm mistaken, and he hasn't got the honour o' my acquaintance, which I thought he had. Don't wait here out o' compliment to me
Ease afore ceremony, old boy; I'll excuse you
I'd knock your head off for half-a-crown
Couldn't afford to have it done on those terms
ud be cheap at that. Make my compliments indoors. Tell 'em not to vait dinner for me, and say they needn't mind puttin' any by, for it'll be cold afore I come in
My dear
you'll spile that wery pretty figure out o' all perportion if you shake them carpets by yourself. Let me help you
Wy, Mary, my dear
Lauk, Mr. Weller
how you do frighten one
Lor, do adun, Mr. Weller
Why, how did you come here
And how did you know I was here
Who could have told you that I took another service at Ipswich, and that they afterwards moved all the way here? Who COULD have told you that, Mr. Weller
Ah, to be sure
that's the pint. Who could ha' told me
It wasn't Mr. Muzzle, was it
Oh, no
it warn't him
It must have been the cook
O' course it must
Well, I never heard the like of that
No more did I
But Mary, my dear
Him in the green coat
Oh, yes, I remember him
Well
he's in a horrid state o' love; reg'larly comfoozled, and done over vith it
Lor
Yes
but that's nothin' if we could find out the young 'ooman
Well
I never did
O' course not
and nobody never did, nor never vill neither; and here am I a-walkin' about like the wandering Jew -- a sportin' character you have perhaps heerd on Mary, my dear, as vos alvays doin' a match agin' time, and never vent to sleep -- looking arter this here Miss Arabella Allen
Miss who
Miss Arabella Allen
Goodness gracious
Wot, the wery next door to you
The very next
Vell
if this don't beat cock-fightin' nothin' never vill, as the lord mayor said, ven the chief secretary o' state proposed his missis's health arter dinner. That wery next house! Wy, I've got a message to her as I've been a-trying all day to deliver
Ah
but you can't deliver it now, because she only walks in the garden in the evening, and then only for a very little time; she never goes out, without the old lady
She's a-goin' off
Wot a thing it is, as these here young creeturs will go a-faintin' avay just ven they oughtn't to. Here, young 'ooman, Miss Sawbones, Mrs. Vinkle, don't
Who's that, and what do you want
Hush
only me, miss, only me
Mr. Pickwick's servant
The wery same, miss
Here's Mr. Vinkle reg'larly sewed up vith desperation, miss
Ah
Ah, indeed
Ve thought ve should ha' been obliged to strait-veskit him last night; he's been a-ravin' all day; and he says if he can't see you afore to-morrow night's over, he vishes he may be somethin' unpleasanted if he don't drownd hisself
Oh, no, no, Mr. Weller
That's wot he says, miss
He's a man of his word, and it's my opinion he'll do it, miss. He's heerd all about you from the sawbones in barnacles
From my brother
I don't rightly know which is your brother, miss
Is it the dirtiest vun o' the two
Yes, yes, Mr. Weller
go on. Make haste, pray
Well, miss
ull get as much extra lead in his head as'll rayther damage the dewelopment o' the orgins if they ever put it in spirits artervards
Oh, what can I do to prevent these dreadful quarrels
It's the suspicion of a priory 'tachment as is the cause of it all
You'd better see him, miss
But how?-- where
I dare not leave the house alone. My brother is so unkind, so unreasonable! I know how strange my talking thus to you may appear, Mr. Weller, but I am very, very unhappy
It may seem wery strange talkin' to me about these here affairs, miss
ull do it, I'm the man
We must be careful
not for our sakes, but for that of the young lady. We must be very cautious
WE
WE, Sir! I shall accompany you
You
I
In affording you this interview, the young lady has taken a natural, perhaps, but still a very imprudent step. If I am present at the meeting -- a mutual friend, who is old enough to be the father of both parties -- the voice of calumny can never be raised against her hereafter
You SHALL go
I will
Sam, have my greatcoat and shawl ready, and order a conveyance to be at the door to-morrow evening, rather earlier than is absolutely necessary, in order that we may be in good time
I should have been the better for something of this kind, in my last garden expedition, at night; eh, Sam
Wery nice things, if they're managed properly, Sir
but wen you don't want to be seen, I think they're more useful arter the candle's gone out, than wen it's alight
Down here, Sir
Let me lead the way. This is the lane, Sir
Hush
Is Miss Allen in the garden yet, Mary
I don't know, sir
The best thing to be done, sir, will be for Mr. Weller to give you a hoist up into the tree, and perhaps Mr. Pickwick will have the goodness to see that nobody comes up the lane, while I watch at the other end of the garden. Goodness gracious, what's that
ull be the death on us all
Take care wot you're a-doin' on, sir; you're a-sendin' a blaze o' light, right into the back parlour winder
Dear me
I didn't mean to do that
Now, it's in the next house, sir
Bless my heart
Now, it's in the stable, and they'll think the place is afire
Shut it up, sir, can't you
It's the most extraordinary lantern I ever met with, in all my life
I never saw such a powerful reflector
It'll be vun too powerful for us, if you keep blazin' avay in that manner, sir
There's the young lady's footsteps. Now, Mr. Winkle, sir, up vith you
Stop, stop
I must speak to her first. Help me up, Sam
Gently, Sir
Step atop o' that 'ere flower-pot, Sir. Now then, up vith you
I'm afraid I shall hurt you, Sam
Never mind me, Sir
Lend him a hand, Mr. Winkle. sir. Steady, sir, steady! That's the time o' day
My dear
don't be frightened, my dear, it's only me
Oh, pray go away, Mr. Pickwick
Tell them all to go away. I am so dreadfully frightened. Dear, dear Mr. Pickwick, don't stop there. You'll fall down and kill yourself, I know you will
Now, pray don't alarm yourself, my dear
There is not the least cause for fear, I assure you. Stand firm, Sam
All right, sir
Don't be longer than you can conweniently help, sir. You're rayther heavy
Only another moment, Sam
I merely wished you to know, my dear, that I should not have allowed my young friend to see you in this clandestine way, if the situation in which you are placed had left him any alternative; and, lest the impropriety of this step should cause you any uneasiness, my love, it may be a satisfaction to you, to know that I am present. That's all, my dear
Indeed, Mr. Pickwick, I am very much obliged to you for your kindness and consideration
I'll take care on him, sir
Leave him to me
Where is he? What's he doing, Sam
Bless his old gaiters
He's a-keepin' guard in the lane vith that 'ere dark lantern, like a amiable Guy Fawkes! I never see such a fine creetur in my days. Blessed if I don't think his heart must ha' been born five- and-twenty year arter his body, at least
Pruffle
there is something very extraordinary in the air to-night? Did you see that
Yes, I did, Sir
What do you think of it, Pruffle
Think of it, Sir
Yes. You have been bred up in this country. What should you say was the cause for those lights, now
I should say it was thieves, Sir
You're a fool, and may go downstairs
Thank you, Sir
Hold hard
Show a light for just vun second, Sir
Have you got your vind back agin, Sir
Quite. Quite, now
Then come along, Sir
Come betveen us, sir. Not half a mile to run. Think you're vinnin' a cup, sir. Now for it
in with you at once, sir
Don't stop a second in the street, arter that 'ere exercise. Beg your pardon, sir
hope there warn't a priory 'tachment, sir
It's all right, Sam; quite right
Now, my fine fellow
Now, Sir, wot's the matter
Come, none of this, my man; this won't do with me
Here, Smouch
Well, wot's amiss here
Only some insolence of this young man's
Come, none o' this gammon
Good-morning, my dear
which is Mr. Pickwick's room, my dear
Show him up
Shaving-water, Sam
Shave you directly, Mr. Pickwick
I've got an execution against you, at the suit of Bardell.-- Here's the warrant.-- Common Pleas.-- Here's my card. I suppose you'll come over to my house
Namby's the name
Namby, Bell Alley, Coleman Street
Are you a Quaker
I'll let you know I am, before I've done with you
I'll teach you manners, my fine fellow, one of these fine mornings
Thank'ee
I'll do the same to you. Take your hat off
Observe this, Mr. Pickwick
I've been assaulted in the execution of my dooty by your servant in your chamber. I'm in bodily fear. I call you to witness this
cause o' the leads outside
Sam
if you say another word, or offer the slightest interference with this person, I discharge you that instant
But, Sir
Hold your tongue
Take that hat up again
to be as alive as he could, for it was a busy time
coffee-room
You'd better have the loan of my razor this morning, Mr. Ayresleigh
Thank you, no, I shan't want it; I expect I shall be out, in the course of an hour or so
Well, I never saw such a game as that
Never
You'd hardly think, would you now
that that chap's been here a week yesterday, and never once shaved himself yet, because he feels so certain he's going out in half an hour's time, thinks he may as well put it off till he gets home
Poor man
Are his chances of getting out of his difficulties really so great
Chances be d -- d
he hasn't half the ghost of one. I wouldn't give THAT for his chance of walking about the streets this time ten years
Give me a sheet of paper, Crookey
and a glass of brandy-and-water, Crookey, d'ye hear? I'm going to write to my father, and I must have a stimulant, or I shan't be able to pitch it strong enough into the old boy
That's right
Never say die. All fun, ain't it
Prime
You've got some spirit about you, you have
You've seen something of life
I rather think I have
Aha, my dear sir
nailed at last, eh? Come, come, I'm not sorry for it either, because now you'll see the absurdity of this conduct. I've noted down the amount of the taxed costs and damages for which the ca-sa was issued, and we had better settle at once and lose no time. Namby is come home by this time, I dare say. What say you, my dear sir? Shall I draw a cheque, or will you
Perker
let me hear no more of this, I beg. I see no advantage in staying here, so I Shall go to prison to-night
You can't go to Whitecross Street, my dear Sir
Impossible! There are sixty beds in a ward; and the bolt's on, sixteen hours out of the four-and-twenty
I would rather go to some other place of confinement if I can
If not, I must make the best I can of that
You can go to the Fleet, my dear Sir, if you're determined to go somewhere
That'll do
I'll go there directly I have finished my breakfast
Stop, stop, my dear Sir; not the least occasion for being in such a violent hurry to get into a place that most other men are as eager to get out of
Very good
Then we will have a chop here, at two. See about it, Sam, and tell them to be punctual
Now
In here, my dear sir. Hallo, what do you want
No, no
We don't want you, my dear friend, we don't want you
I beg your pardon, sir
The gentleman took my card. I hope you will employ me, sir. The gentleman nodded to me. I'll be judged by the gentleman himself. You nodded to me, sir
Pooh, pooh, nonsense. You didn't nod to anybody, Pickwick? A mistake, a mistake
The gentleman handed me his card
I accepted it, as the gentleman seemed to wish it -- in fact I had some curiosity to look at it when I should be at leisure. I
A what
A bail
A bail
Yes, my dear sir -- half a dozen of 'em here. Bail you to any amount, and only charge half a crown. Curious trade, isn't it
What! Am I to understand that these men earn a livelihood by waiting about here, to perjure themselves before the judges of the land, at the rate of half a crown a crime
Why, I don't exactly know about perjury, my dear sir
Harsh word, my dear sir, very harsh word indeed. It's a legal fiction, my dear sir, nothing more
Sniggle and Blink
Porkin and Snob
Stumpy and Deacon
Take the book in your right hand this is your name and hand- writing you swear that the contents of this your affidavit are true so help you God a shilling you must get change I haven't got it
Well, Sam
I suppose they are getting the HABEAS-CORPUS ready
Yes
and I vish they'd bring out the have-his- carcase. It's wery unpleasant keepin' us vaitin' here. I'd ha' got half a dozen have-his-carcases ready, pack'd up and all, by this time
And that
will be a very long time. Sam, call another hackney-coach. Perker, my dear friend, good-bye
I shall go with you, and see you safe there
Indeed
I would rather go without any other attendant than Sam. As soon as I get settled, I will write and let you know, and I shall expect you immediately. Until then, good-bye
A most extraordinary man that
What a bankrupt he'd make, Sir
How he would bother the commissioners! He'd set 'em at defiance if they talked of committing him, Sir
sitting for your portrait
Sitting for my portrait
Having your likeness taken, sir
We're capital hands at likenesses here. Take 'em in no time, and always exact. Walk in, sir, and make yourself at home
Well, Sam
then I wish the artists would come. This is rather a public place
They von't be long, Sir, I des-say
There's a Dutch clock, sir
So I see
And a bird-cage, sir
Veels vithin veels, a prison in a prison. Ain't it, Sir
Where am I to sleep to-night
Why, I don't rightly know about to-night
You'll be chummed on somebody to-morrow, and then you'll be all snug and comfortable. The first night's generally rather unsettled, but you'll be set all squares to-morrow
If you'll come with me, I'll show it you at once
un; but it's an out-and-outer to sleep in. This way, sir
This
this here is the hall flight
Oh
and those, I suppose, are the little cellars where the prisoners keep their small quantities of coals. Unpleasant places to have to go down to; but very convenient, I dare say
Yes, I shouldn't wonder if they was convenient
seeing that a few people live there, pretty snug. That's the Fair, that is
My friend
you don't really mean to say that human beings live down in those wretched dungeons
Don't I
why shouldn't I
Live!-- live down there
Live down there! Yes, and die down there, too, very often
and what of that? Who's got to say anything agin it? Live down there! Yes, and a wery good place it is to live in, ain't it
There
this is the coffee-room flight; the one above's the third, and the one above that's the top; and the room where you're a-going to sleep to-night is the warden's room, and it's this way -- come on
the Painted Ground
There
there's a room
There's a room, young man
I see it
You wouldn't think to find such a room as this in the Farringdon Hotel, would you
That's it
It would make any one go to sleep, that bedstead would, whether they wanted to or not
I should think
I should think poppies was nothing to it
Nothing at all
Nothing but it
One of 'em takes his twelve pints of ale a day, and never leaves off smoking even at his meals
He must be a first-rater
A1
It strikes me, Sam
Think not, sir
You see how these fellows drink, and smoke, and roar
It's quite impossible that they can mind it much
Ah, that's just the wery thing, Sir
they don't mind it; it's a reg'lar holiday to them -- all porter and skittles. It's the t'other vuns as gets done over vith this sort o' thing; them down-hearted fellers as can't svig avay at the beer, nor play at skittles neither; them as vould pay if they could, and gets low by being boxed up. I'll tell you wot it is, sir; them as is always a-idlin' in public-houses it don't damage at all, and them as is alvays a-workin' wen they can, it damages too much. "It's unekal," as my father used to say wen his grog worn't made half- and-half: "it's unekal, and that's the fault on it
I think you're right, Sam
quite right
P'raps, now and then, there's some honest people as likes it
cept the little dirty-faced man in the brown coat; and that was force of habit
And who was he
Wy, that's just the wery point as nobody never know'd
But what did he do
Wy, he did wot many men as has been much better know'd has done in their time, Sir
he run a match agin the constable, and vun it
In other words, I suppose
he got into debt
Just that, Sir
ud bring me home, for I've got my card in my pocket, Bill," he says, "No. 20, Coffee-room Flight": and that wos true, sure enough, for wen he wanted to make the acquaintance of any new-comer, he used to pull out a little limp card vith them words on it and nothin' else; in consideration of vich, he vos alvays called Number Tventy. The turnkey takes a fixed look at him, and at last he says in a solemn manner, "Tventy," he says, "I'll trust you; you Won't get your old friend into trouble." "No, my boy; I hope I've somethin' better behind here," says the little man; and as he said it he hit his little vesket wery hard, and then a tear started out o' each eye, which wos wery extraordinary, for it wos supposed as water never touched his face. He shook the turnkey by the hand; out he vent
And never came back again
Wrong for vunce, sir
for back he come, two minits afore the time, a-bilin' with rage, sayin' how he'd been nearly run over by a hackney-coach that he warn't used to it; and he was blowed if he wouldn't write to the lord mayor. They got him pacified at last; and for five years arter that, he never even so much as peeped out o' the lodge gate
At the expiration of that time he died, I suppose
No, he didn't, Sir
He got a curiosity to go and taste the beer at a new public-house over the way, and it wos such a wery nice parlour, that he took it into his head to go there every night, which he did for a long time, always comin' back reg'lar about a quarter of an hour afore the gate shut, which was all wery snug and comfortable. At last he began to get so precious jolly, that he used to forget how the time vent, or care nothin' at all about it, and he went on gettin' later and later, till vun night his old friend wos just a-shuttin' the gate -- had turned the key in fact -- wen he come up. "Hold hard, Bill," he says. "Wot, ain't you come home yet, Tventy
Bravo! Heel over toe -- cut and shuffle -- pay away at it, Zephyr! I'm smothered if the opera house isn't your proper hemisphere. Keep it up! Hooray
Why, bless the gentleman's honest heart and soul
the gentleman is awake. Hem, Shakespeare! How do you do, Sir? How is Mary and Sarah, sir? and the dear old lady at home, Sir? Will you have the kindness to put my compliments into the first little parcel you're sending that way, sir, and say that I would have sent 'em before, only I was afraid they might be broken in the wagon, sir
Don't overwhelm the gentlemen with ordinary civilities when you see he's anxious to have something to drink
Why don't you ask the gentleman what he'll take
Dear me, I quite forgot
What will you take, sir? Will you take port wine, sir, or sherry wine, sir? I can recommend the ale, sir; or perhaps you'd like to taste the porter, sir? Allow me to have the felicity of hanging up your nightcap, Sir
Now
come on -- both of you -- both of you
Well, you're a trump, and I like you all the better for it
Now jump into bed again, or you'll catch the rheumatics. No malice, I hope
Certainly not
Allow me the H-onour
With much pleasure, sir
My name is Smangle, sir
Oh
Mine is Mivins
I am delighted to hear it, sir
Hem
Did you speak, sir
No, I did not, sir
Are you going through the court, sir
Through the what
Through the court -- Portugal Street -- the Court for Relief of -- You know
Oh, no
No, I am not
Going out, perhaps
I fear not
I refuse to pay some damages, and am here in consequence
Ah
paper has been my ruin
A stationer, I presume, Sir
Stationer! No, no; confound and curse me! Not so low as that. No trade. When I say paper, I mean bills
Oh, you use the word in that sense. I see
Damme! A gentleman must expect reverses
What of that? Here am I in the Fleet Prison. Well; good. What then? I'm none the worse for that, am I
Not a bit
Well; but come
this is dry work. Let's rinse our mouths with a drop of burnt sherry; the last-comer shall stand it, Mivins shall fetch it, and I'll help to drink it. That's a fair and gentlemanlike division of labour, anyhow. Curse me
I say
what did you give him
Half a sovereign
He's a devilish pleasant gentlemanly dog
infernal pleasant. I don't know anybody more so; but
You don't think there is any probability of his appropriating the money to his own use
Oh, no! Mind, I don't say that; I expressly say that he's a devilish gentlemanly fellow
But I think, perhaps, if somebody went down, just to see that he didn't dip his beak into the jug by accident, or make some confounded mistake in losing the money as he came upstairs, it would be as well. Here, you sir, just run downstairs, and look after that gentleman, will you
You know where the coffee-room is
just run down, and tell that gentleman you've come to help him up with the jug. Or -- stop -- I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you how we'll do him
How
Send down word that he's to spend the change in cigars. Capital thought. Run and tell him that; d'ye hear? They shan't be wasted
I'LL smoke 'em
Well; will you know me again
I'd svear to you anyveres, Sir
Don't be impertinent to a gentleman, Sir
Not on no account
if you'll tell me wen he wakes, I'll be upon the wery best extra-super behaviour
Mivins
What's the office
Who the devil is this fellow
I ought to ask YOU that. Hasn't he any business here
No
Then knock him downstairs, and tell him not to presume to get up till I come and kick him
Sam
Sir
Has anything new occurred since last night
Nothin' partickler, sir
the late prewailance of a close and confined atmosphere has been rayther favourable to the growth of veeds, of an alarmin' and sangvinary natur; but vith that 'ere exception things is quiet enough
I shall get up
give me some clean things
Now is there anything I can do for you, my dear Sir
Nothing that I am aware of, I am obliged to you
No linen that you want sent to the washerwoman's? I know a delightful washerwoman outside, that comes for my things twice a week; and, by Jove!-- how devilish lucky!-- this is the day she calls. Shall I put any of those little things up with mine? Don't say anything about the trouble. Confound and curse it! if one gentleman under a cloud is not to put himself a little out of the way to assist another gentleman in the same condition, what's human nature
There's nothing you want to give out for the man to brush, my dear creature, is there
Nothin' whatever, my fine feller
ud be more agreeable for all parties, as the schoolmaster said when the young gentleman objected to being flogged by the butler
And there's nothing I can send in my little box to the washer- woman's, is there
Nothin' whatever, Sir
I'm afeered the little box must be chock full o' your own as it is
carried over' to the other side, remained in bed, and, in his own words, 'took it out in sleep
Accommodation, eh
Plenty of that, Mr. Pickwick. Your chummage ticket will be on twenty-seven, in the third
Oh
My what, did you say
Your chummage ticket
you're up to that
Not quite
Why
it's as plain as Salisbury. You'll have a chummage ticket upon twenty-seven in the third, and them as is in the room will be your chums
Are there many of them
Three
One of 'em's a parson
another's a butcher
Eh
A butcher
What a thorough-paced goer he used to be sure-ly! You remember Tom Martin, Neddy
I should think so
Bless my dear eyes
it seems but yesterday that he whopped the coal-heaver down Fox-under-the-Hill by the wharf there. I think I can see him now, a-coming up the Strand between the two street-keepers, a little sobered by the bruising, with a patch o' winegar and brown paper over his right eyelid, and that 'ere lovely bulldog, as pinned the little boy arterwards, a-following at his heels. What a rum thing time is, ain't it, Neddy
Do you know what the third gentlemen is
What is that Simpson, Neddy
What Simpson
Why, him in twenty-seven in the third, that this gentleman's going to be chummed on
Oh, him
he's nothing exactly. He WAS a horse chaunter: he's a leg now
Ah, so I thought
That's the ticket, sir
Which is twenty-seven, my good fellow
Five doors farther on
There's the likeness of a man being hung, and smoking the while, chalked outside the door
portrait of a gentleman
I believe
I believe this is twenty-seven in the third
Well
I have come here in consequence of receiving this bit of paper
Hand it over
I think Roker might have chummed you somewhere else
Butcher
a rig
a go
It's an aggravating thing, just as we got the beds so snug
very aggravating
I suppose this can be managed somehow
What will you take to go out
I beg your pardon
What did you say? I hardly understand you
What will you take to be paid out
The regular chummage is two-and-six. Will you take three bob
And a bender
Well, I don't mind that; it's only twopence a piece more
What do you say, now? We'll pay you out for three-and-sixpence a week. Come
And stand a gallon of beer down
There
And drink it on the spot
Now
I really am so wholly ignorant of the rules of this place
that I do not yet comprehend you. Can I live anywhere else? I thought I could not
over the left
CAN you
Well, if I knew as little of life as that, I'd eat my hat and swallow the buckle whole
So would I
I knowed it
Didn't I say so, Neddy
I knowed you'd want a room for yourself, bless you
Let me see. You'll want some furniture. You'll hire that of me, I suppose? That's the reg'lar thing
With great pleasure
There's a capital room up in the coffee-room flight, that belongs to a Chancery prisoner
It'll stand you in a pound a week. I suppose you don't mind that
Not at all
Just step there with me
the matter's settled in five minutes. Lord! why didn't you say at first that you was willing to come down handsome
And where will you live meanwhile, Sir
I am afraid, sir
I am afraid you will have to live in some noisy, crowded place. Now, pray, consider this room your own when you want quiet, or when any of your friends come to see you
Friends
if I lay dead at the bottom of the deepest mine in the world; tight screwed down and soldered in my coffin; rotting in the dark and filthy ditch that drags its slime along, beneath the foundations of this prison; I could not be more forgotten or unheeded than I am here. I am a dead man; dead to society, without the pity they bestow on those whose souls have passed to judgment. Friends to see me! My God! I have sunk, from the prime of life into old age, in this place, and there is not one to raise his hand above my bed when I lie dead upon it, and say, "It is a blessing he is gone
Rides rather rusty
Ah! they're like the elephants. They feel it now and then, and it makes 'em wild
Now, is there anything more we can do for you
Why, yes
Are there any people here who run on errands, and so forth
Outside, do you mean
Yes. I mean who are able to go outside. Not prisoners
Yes, there is
There's an unfortunate devil, who has got a friend on the poor side, that's glad to do anything of that sort. He's been running odd jobs, and that, for the last two months. Shall I send him
If you please
Stay; no. The poor side, you say? I should like to see it. I'll go to him myself
Pray, remember the poor debtors; pray remember the poor debtors
Mr. Pickwick
Eh
Mr --! So it is -- queer place -- strange things -- serves me right -- very
I should like to speak to you in private. Will you step out for an instant
Certainly
Can't step far -- no danger of overwalking yourself here -- spike park -- grounds pretty -- romantic, but not extensive -- open for public inspection -- family always in town -- housekeeper desperately careful -- very
You have forgotten your coat
Eh
Spout -- dear relation -- uncle Tom -- couldn't help it -- must eat, you know. Wants of nature -- and all that
What do you mean
Gone, my dear sir -- last coat -- can't help it. Lived on a pair of boots -- whole fortnight. Silk umbrella -- ivory handle -- week -- fact -- honour -- ask Job -- knows it
Lived for three weeks upon a pair of boots, and a silk umbrella with an ivory handle
True
Pawnbroker's shop -- duplicates here -- small sums -- mere nothing -- all rascals
Oh
I understand you. You have pawned your wardrobe
Everything -- Job's too -- all shirts gone -- never mind -- saves washing. Nothing soon -- lie in bed -- starve -- die -- inquest -- little bone-house -- poor prisoner -- common necessaries -- hush it up -- gentlemen of the jury -- warden's tradesmen -- keep it snug -- natural death -- coroner's order -- workhouse funeral -- serve him right -- all over -- drop the curtain
Good fellow
Ungrateful dog -- boyish to cry -- can't help it -- bad fever -- weak -- ill -- hungry. Deserved it all -- but suffered much -- very
Come, come
we will see what can be done, when I know all about the matter. Here, Job; where is that fellow
Here, sir
Here, sir
Come here, sir
Take that, sir
Well, Sam
Well, sir
Pretty comfortable now, eh, Sam
Pretty vell, sir
Have you seen Mr. Tupman and our other friends
Yes, I HAVE seen 'em, sir, and they're a-comin' to-morrow, and wos wery much surprised to hear they warn't to come to-day
You have brought the things I wanted
Very well, Sam
listen to what I am going to say, Sam
fire away, Sir
I have felt from the first, Sam
that this is not the place to bring a young man to
un neither, Sir
You're quite right, Sam
but old men may come here through their own heedlessness and unsuspicion, and young men may be brought here by the selfishness of those they serve. It is better for those young men, in every point of view, that they should not remain here. Do you understand me, Sam
Vy no, Sir, I do NOT
Try, Sam
Vell, sir
pinion that you're a- comin' it a great deal too strong, as the mail-coachman said to the snowstorm, ven it overtook him
I see you comprehend me, Sam
Independently of my wish that you should not be idling about a place like this, for years to come, I feel that for a debtor in the Fleet to be attended by his manservant is a monstrous absurdity. Sam
for a time you must leave me
Oh, for a time, eh, sir
Yes, for the time that I remain here
Your wages I shall continue to pay. Any one of my three friends will be happy to take you, were it only out of respect to me. And if I ever do leave this place, Sam
if I do, I pledge you my word that you shall return to me instantly
Now I'll tell you wot it is, Sir
This here sort o' thing won't do at all, so don't let's hear no more about it
I am serious, and resolved, Sam
You air, air you, sir
Wery good, Sir; then so am I
Sam
Sam! Here
the Rules
I'm sure to bring him through it
Are you, though
Certain sure
but if he'd gone to any irregular practitioner, mind you, I wouldn't have answered for the consequences
Ah
No, that I wouldn't
And vere is George
Vell, George
How is it? All right behind, and full inside
All right, old feller
Is the gray mare made over to anybody
Vell, that's all right
Coach taken care on, also
Con-signed in a safe quarter
Wery good, wery good
Alvays see to the drag ven you go downhill. Is the vay-bill all clear and straight for'erd
The schedule, sir
the schedule is as plain and satisfactory as pen and ink can make it
Ven do you take his cloths off
Why
he stands third on the opposed list, and I should think it would be his turn in about half an hour. I told my clerk to come over and tell us when there was a chance
And what'll you take, sir
Why, really
you're very -- Upon my word and honour, I'm not in the habit of -- It's so very early in the morning, that, actually, I am almost -- Well, you may bring me threepenn'orth of rum, my dear
Gentlemen
success to your friend! I don't like to boast, gentlemen; it's not my way; but I can't help saying, that, if your friend hadn't been fortunate enough to fall into hands that -- But I won't say what I was going to say. Gentlemen, my service to you
Let me see
What was I a-saying, gentlemen
I think you was remarkin' as you wouldn't have no objection to another o' the same, Sir
Ha, ha
Not bad, not bad. A professional man, too! At this time of the morning, it would be rather too good a -- Well, I don't know, my dear -- you may do that again, if you please. Hem
The late Lord Chancellor, gentlemen, was very fond of me
And wery creditable in him, too
Hear, hear
Ah! Why, indeed
Why shouldn't he
I remember, gentlemen
dining with him on one occasion; there was only us two, but everything as splendid as if twenty people had been expected -- the great seal on a dumb- waiter at his right hand, and a man in a bag-wig and suit of armour guarding the mace with a drawn sword and silk stockings -- which is perpetually done, gentlemen, night and day; when he said, "Pell," he said, "no false delicacy, Pell. You're a man of talent; you can get anybody through the Insolvent Court, Pell; and your country should be proud of you." Those were his very words. "My Lord," I said, "you flatter me."--"Pell," he said, "if I do, I'm damned
Did he say that
He did
Vell, then
I say Parliament ought to ha' took it up; and if he'd been a poor man, they would ha' done it
But, my dear friend
it was in confidence
In what
In confidence
Oh! wery good
If he damned hisself in confidence, o' course that was another thing
Of course it was
The distinction's obvious, you will perceive
Alters the case entirely
Go on, Sir
No, I will not go on, Sir
You have reminded me, Sir, that this conversation was private -- private and confidential, gentlemen. Gentlemen, I am a professional man. It may be that I am a good deal looked up to, in my profession -- it may be that I am not. Most people know. I say nothing. Observations have already been made, in this room, injurious to the reputation of my noble friend. You will excuse me, gentlemen; I was imprudent. I feel that I have no right to mention this matter without his concurrence. Thank you, Sir; thank you
Samivel
You're a dutiful and affectionate little boy, you are, ain't you
to come a-bonnetin' your father in his old age
How should I know who you wos
Vell, that's wery true, Sammy
Wot a perwerse old file it is
always a-goin' on about werdicks and alleybis and that. Who said anything about the werdick
Leave off rattlin' that 'ere nob o' yourn, if you don't want it to come off the springs altogether
and behave reasonable. I vent all the vay down to the Markis o' Granby, arter you, last night
Did you see the Marchioness o' Granby, Sammy
Yes, I did
Wery queer
I think she's a-injurin' herself gradivally vith too much o' that 'ere pine-apple rum, and other strong medicines of the same natur
You don't mean that, Sammy
I do, indeed
I ain't quite certain, Sammy; I wouldn't like to say I wos altogether positive, in case of any subsekent disappointment, but I rayther think, my boy, I rayther think, that the shepherd's got the liver complaint
Does he look bad
He's uncommon pale
Vell, now
about my affair. Just open them ears o' yourn, and don't say nothin' till I've done
Stop there by himself, poor creetur
without nobody to take his part! It can't be done, Samivel, it can't be done
O' course it can't
I know'd that, afore I came
Why, they'll eat him up alive, Sammy
He goes in rayther raw, Sammy
and he'll come out, done so ex-ceedin' brown, that his most formiliar friends won't know him. Roast pigeon's nothin' to it, Sammy
It oughtn't to be, Samivel
It mustn't be
Vell now
you've been a-prophecyin' away, wery fine, like a red-faced Nixon, as the sixpenny books gives picters on
Who wos he, Sammy
Never mind who he was
he warn't a coachman; that's enough for you
I know'd a ostler o' that name
It warn't him
Wot's a prophet
Wy, a man as tells what's a-goin' to happen
I wish I'd know'd him, Sammy
P'raps he might ha' throw'd a small light on that 'ere liver complaint as we wos a-speakin' on, just now. Hows'ever, if he's dead, and ain't left the bisness to nobody, there's an end on it. Go on, Sammy
Well
No, I don't, Sammy
No vay at all
No vay
unless it is getting him out in a turn-up bedstead, unbeknown to the turnkeys, Sammy, or dressin' him up like a old 'ooman vith a green wail
No
if he von't let you stop there, I see no vay at all. It's no thoroughfare, Sammy, no thoroughfare
Well, then, I'll tell you wot it is
I'll trouble you for the loan of five-and-twenty pound
Wot good'll that do
Never mind
P'raps you may ask for it five minits arterwards; p'raps I may say I von't pay, and cut up rough. You von't think o' arrestin' your own son for the money, and sendin' him off to the Fleet, will you, you unnat'ral wagabone
Wot a old image it is
What are you a-settin' down there for, con-wertin' your face into a street-door knocker, wen there's so much to be done. Where's the money
In the boot, Sammy, in the boot
Hold my hat, Sammy
And now, Sammy
I say
none o' that
None o' wot
Wy, none o' them unconstitootional ways o' doin' it
The have-his-carcass, next to the perpetual motion, is vun of the blessedest things as wos ever made. I've read that 'ere in the newspapers wery of'en
Well, wot's that got to do vith it
Just this here
that I'll patronise the inwention, and go in, that vay. No visperin's to the Chancellorship -- I don't like the notion. It mayn't be altogether safe, vith reference to gettin' out agin
Gentlemen
rather than disturb the harmony of this delightful occasion, perhaps Mr. Samuel Weller will oblige the company
Raly, gentlemen
I'm not wery much in the habit o' singin' without the instrument; but anythin' for a quiet life, as the man said wen he took the sitivation at the lighthouse
orse's legs, And he claps his head vithin; And the Bishop says, 'Sure as eggs is eggs, This here's the bold Turpin
Sure as eggs is eggs, This here's the bold Turpin
You shall eat your words, With a sarse of leaden bul-let
I maintain that that 'ere song's personal to the cloth
I demand the name o' that coachman
Nobody know'd
He hadn't got his card in his pocket
I object to the introduction o' politics
I submit that, in the present company, that 'ere song's political; and, wot's much the same, that it ain't true. I say that that coachman did not run away; but that he died game -- game as pheasants; and I won't hear nothin' said to the contrairey
All right, Sammy
I suppose you won't run away meanwhile, eh? Ha! ha
ull relent afore then
Not I
Do
Not on no account
I'll give bills for the amount, at sixpence a month
I won't take 'em
Ha, ha, ha! very good, very good
a very amusing incident indeed! Benjamin, copy that
Thank you, thank you
Three ten and one ten is five. Much obliged to you, Mr. Weller. Your son is a most deserving young man, very much so indeed, Sir. It's a very pleasant trait in a young man's character, very much so
Wot a game it is
A reg'lar prodigy son
Prodigal -- prodigal son, Sir
Never mind, Sir
Come in
Ah, Sam, my good lad
I had no intention of hurting your feelings yesterday, my faithful fellow, by what I said. Put down your hat, Sam, and let me explain my meaning, a little more at length
Won't presently do, sir
Certainly
but why not now
I'd rayther not now, sir
Why
Because of what
Speak out, Sam
rejoined Sam
What business
Nothin' partickler, Sir
Oh, if it's nothing particular
you can speak with me first
I think I'd better see arter it at once
The fact is
Well
Speak out, Sam
Why, the fact is
perhaps I'd better see arter my bed afore I do anythin' else
YOUR BED
Yes, my bed, Sir
I'm a prisoner. I was arrested this here wery arternoon for debt
You arrested for debt
Yes, for debt, Sir
ull never let me out till you go yourself
Bless my heart and soul
What do you mean
Wot I say, Sir
If it's forty years to come, I shall be a prisoner, and I'm very glad on it; and if it had been Newgate, it would ha' been just the same. Now the murder's out, and, damme, there's an end on it
It ain't o' no use, sir
But consider, Sam
the sum is so small that it can very easily be paid; and having made up My mind that you shall stop with me, you should recollect how much more useful you would be, if you could go outside the walls
Wery much obliged to you, sir
but I'd rayther not
Rather not do what, Sam
Wy, I'd rayther not let myself down to ask a favour o' this here unremorseful enemy
But it is no favour asking him to take his money, Sam
Beg your pardon, sir
ud be a wery great favour to pay it, and he don't deserve none; that's where it is, sir
I takes my determination on principle, Sir
and you takes yours on the same ground; wich puts me in mind o' the man as killed his-self on principle, wich o' course you've heerd on, Sir
There is no "of course" in the case, Sam
The fame of the gentleman in question, never reached my ears
No, sir
You astonish me, Sir; he wos a clerk in a gov'ment office, sir
Was he
Yes, he wos, Sir
'em all, eats 'em all, and blows his brains out
What did he do that for
Wot did he do it for, Sir
Wy, in support of his great principle that crumpets wos wholesome, and to show that he wouldn't be put out of his way for nobody
Do you always smoke arter you goes to bed, old cock
Yes, I does, young bantam
Will you allow me to in-quire wy you make up your bed under that 'ere deal table
You're a character, sir
I haven't got anything of the kind belonging to me
and if you want to meet with a good one, I'm afraid you'll find some difficulty in suiting yourself at this register office
Have you been here long
Twelve year
Contempt
Well, then
wot do you persevere in bein' obstinit for, vastin' your precious life away, in this here magnified pound? Wy don't you give in, and tell the Chancellorship that you're wery sorry for makin' his court contemptible, and you won't do so no more
Wy don't you
Ah
you don't quite understand these matters. What do you suppose ruined me, now
Wy
Never owed a farden
try again
Well, perhaps
Try again
You didn't go to law, I hope
Never in my life
The fact is, I was ruined by having money left me
Come, come
ud try to vork my destruction in that 'ere vay. I'd let him
Oh, I dare say you don't believe it
I wouldn't if I was you; but it's true for all that
How wos it
Just this
an old gentleman that I worked for, down in the country, and a humble relation of whose I married -- she's dead, God bless her, and thank Him for it!-- was seized with a fit and went off
Where
How should I know where he went
He went off dead
Oh, that indeed
Well
Well
he left five thousand pound behind him
And wery gen-teel in him so to do
One of which
cause I married his relation, you see
Wery good
And being surrounded by a great number of nieces and nevys, as was always quarrelling and fighting among themselves for the property, he makes me his executor, and leaves the rest to me in trust, to divide it among 'em as the will prowided
Wot do you mean by leavin' it on trust
If it ain't ready-money, were's the use on it
It's a law term, that's all
I don't think that
There's wery little trust at that shop. Hows'ever, go on
Well
when I was going to take out a probate of the will, the nieces and nevys, who was desperately disappointed at not getting all the money, enters a caveat against it
What's that
A legal instrument, which is as much as to say, it's no go
I see
a sort of brother-in-law o' the have-his- carcass. Well
But
finding that they couldn't agree among themselves, and consequently couldn't get up a case against the will, they withdrew the caveat, and I paid all the legacies. I'd hardly done it, when one nevy brings an action to set the will aside. The case comes on, some months afterwards, afore a deaf old gentleman, in a back room somewhere down by Paul's Churchyard; and arter four counsels had taken a day a-piece to bother him regularly, he takes a week or two to consider, and read the evidence in six volumes, and then gives his judgment that how the testator was not quite right in his head, and I must pay all the money back again, and all the costs. I appealed; the case come on before three or four very sleepy gentlemen, who had heard it all before in the other court, where they're lawyers without work; the only difference being, that, there, they're called doctors, and in the other place delegates, if you understand that; and they very dutifully confirmed the decision of the old gentleman below. After that, we went into Chancery, where we are still, and where I shall always be. My lawyers have had all my thousand pound long ago; and what between the estate, as they call it, and the costs, I'm here for ten thousand, and shall stop here, till I die, mending shoes. Some gentlemen have talked of bringing it before Parliament, and I dare say would have done it, only they hadn't time to come to me, and I hadn't power to go to them, and they got tired of my long letters, and dropped the business. And this is God's truth, without one word of suppression or exaggeration, as fifty people, both in this place and out of it, very well know
Come in
How are you
I say -- do you expect anybody this morning? Three men -- devilish gentlemanly fellows -- have been asking after you downstairs, and knocking at every door on the hall flight; for which they've been most infernally blown up by the collegians that had the trouble of opening 'em
Dear me! How very foolish of them
Yes; I have no doubt they are some friends whom I rather expected to see, yesterday
Friends of yours
Say no more. Curse me, they're friends of mine from this minute, and friends of Mivins's, too. Infernal pleasant, gentlemanly dog, Mivins, isn't he
I know so little of the gentleman
that I
I know you do
You shall know him better. You'll be delighted with him. That man, Sir
has comic powers that would do honour to Drury Lane Theatre
Has he indeed
Ah, by Jove he has
Hear him come the four cats in the wheel-barrow -- four distinct cats, sir, I pledge you my honour. Now you know that's infernal clever! Damme, you can't help liking a man, when you see these traits about him. He's only one fault -- that little failing I mentioned to you, you know
Ah
Ah
He's delightful company, that man is, sir. I don't know better company anywhere; but he has that one drawback. If the ghost of his grandfather, Sir, was to rise before him this minute, he'd ask him for the loan of his acceptance on an eightpenny stamp
Dear me
Yes
and if he'd the power of raising him again, he would, in two months and three days from this time, to renew the bill
Those are very remarkable traits
but I'm afraid that while we are talking here, my friends may be in a state of great perplexity at not finding me
I'll show 'em the way
Good-day. I won't disturb you while they're here, you know. By the bye
You couldn't make it convenient to lend me half-a-crown till the latter end of next week, could you
My dear friends
I am delighted to see you
This foolish fellow
this foolish fellow has got himself arrested, in order to be near me
What
A prisoner
Hollo, sir
Wot's the matter, Sir
I had hoped, Sam, that -- Nothing, nothing
We don't know
He has been much excited for two days past, and his whole demeanour very unlike what it usually is. We feared there must be something the matter, but he resolutely denies it
No, no
there is really nothing. I assure you there is nothing, my dear sir. It will be necessary for me to leave town, for a short time, on private business, and I had hoped to have prevailed upon you to allow Sam to accompany me
I think
that Sam would have had no objection to do so; but, of course, his being a prisoner here, renders it impossible. So I must go alone
Do you know anything of this, Sam
No, I don't, sir
Are you sure, Sam
Wy, sir
I'm sure so far, that I've never heerd anythin' on the subject afore this moment. If I makes any guess about it
un
I have no right to make any further inquiry into the private affairs of a friend, however intimate a friend
at present let me merely say, that I do not understand this at all. There. We have had quite enough of the subject
Good-night, my dear Sir
Bless you, my dear fellow
Now then
Yes, yes, directly
Good-night
Good-night
Is anything the matter
Nothing
Well then, good-night
My friend, my benefactor, my honoured companion
Do not judge me harshly; do not, when you hear that, driven to extremity by hopeless obstacles, I
Now then
Are you coming, or are we to be locked in
Yes, yes, I am ready
Oh, certainly, depend upon me
Thank'ee, sir. You won't forget, sir
Of course not
Wish you luck, Sir
It is very much to your credit that you remain here
What can that young man be going to do
By all means
I've brought you a softer pillow, Sir
instead of the temporary one you had last night
Thank you
Will you take a glass of wine
You're wery good, Sir
Yours, sir
Thank you
I'm sorry to say that your landlord's wery bad to-night, Sir
What! The Chancery prisoner
He won't be a Chancery prisoner wery long, Sir
You make my blood run cold
What do you mean
He's been consumptive for a long time past
and he's taken wery bad in the breath to-night. The doctor said, six months ago, that nothing but change of air could save him
Great Heaven
has this man been slowly murdered by the law for six months
I don't know about that
I suppose he'd have been took the same, wherever he was. He went into the infirmary, this morning; the doctor says his strength is to be kept up as much as possible; and the warden's sent him wine and broth and that, from his own house. It's not the warden's fault, you know, sir
Of course not
I'm afraid, however
that it's all up with him. I offered Neddy two six-penn'orths to one upon it just now, but he wouldn't take it, and quite right. Thank'ee, Sir. Good-night, sir
Stay
Where is this infirmary
Just over where you slept, sir
I'll show you, if you like to come
Open the window
There is no air here
The place pollutes it. It was fresh round about, when I walked there, years ago; but it grows hot and heavy in passing these walls. I cannot breathe it
We have breathed it together, for a long time
Come, come
I hope
I hope my merciful Judge will bear in mind my heavy punishment on earth. Twenty years, my friend, twenty years in this hideous grave! My heart broke when my child died, and I could not even kiss him in his little coffin. My loneliness since then, in all this noise and riot, has been very dreadful. May God forgive me! He has seen my solitary, lingering death
He has got his discharge, by G
wery good
Weller
Here
Wot's the matter? Who wants him? Has an express come to say that his country house is afire
Somebody wants you in the hall
Just mind that 'ere paper and the pot, old feller, will you
Weller
Weller
Wot are you a-roarin' at
making yourself so precious hot that you looks like a aggrawated glass- blower. Wot's the matter
Aha
I began to be afeerd that you'd gone for a walk round the Regency Park, Sammy
Come
none o' them taunts agin the wictim o' avarice, and come off that 'ere step. Wot arc you a-settin' down there for? I don't live there
I've got such a game for you, Sammy
Stop a minit
you're all vite behind
That's right, Sammy, rub it off
It might look personal here, if a man walked about with vitevash on his clothes, eh, Sammy
Keep quiet, do
there never vos such a old picter- card born. Wot are you bustin' vith, now
Sammy
I'm afeerd that vun o' these days I shall laugh myself into a appleplexy, my boy
Vell, then, wot do you do it for
Now, then, wot have you got to say
Who do you think's come here with me, Samivel
Pell
Mottled-faced man, p'raps
Who then
Your mother-in-law
Your mother -- in -- law, Sammy
and the red-nosed man, my boy; and the red-nosed man. Ho! ho! ho
They've come to have a little serious talk with you, Samivel
Don't let out nothin' about the unnat'ral creditor, Sammy
Wot, don't they know who it is
Not a bit on it
Vere are they
In the snuggery
I drove the old piebald in that 'ere little shay-cart as belonged to your mother-in-law's first wenter, into vich a harm-cheer wos lifted for the shepherd; and I'm blessed
I'm blessed if they didn't bring a portable flight o' steps out into the road a-front o' our door for him, to get up by
You don't mean that
I do mean that, Sammy
and I vish you could ha' seen how tight he held on by the sides wen he did get up, as if he wos afeerd o' being precipitayted down full six foot, and dashed into a million hatoms. He tumbled in at last, however, and avay ve vent; and I rayther think -- I say I rayther think, Samivel -- that he found his-self a little jolted ven ve turned the corners
I'm afeerd
I'm afeerd I took vun or two on 'em, Sammy; he wos a-flyin' out o' the arm-cheer all the way
Don't be frightened, Sammy, don't be frightened
It's only a kind o' quiet laugh as I'm a-tryin' to come, Sammy
Well, if that's wot it is
you'd better not try to come it agin. You'll find it rayther a dangerous inwention
Don't you like it, Sammy
Not at all
Well
ud ha' saved a good many vords atween your mother-in-law and me, sometimes; but I'm afeerd you're right, Sammy, it's too much in the appleplexy line -- a deal too much, Samivel
Mother-in-law
wery much obliged to you for this here wisit.-- Shepherd, how air you
Oh, Samuel
This is dreadful
Not a bit on it, mum
Is it, shepherd
The good man is grieved to see you here, Samuel
Oh, that's it, is it
I was afeerd, from his manner, that he might ha' forgotten to take pepper vith that 'ere last cowcumber he eat. Set down, Sir, ve make no extra charge for settin' down, as the king remarked wen he blowed up his ministers
Young man
I fear you are not softened by imprisonment
Beg your pardon, Sir
wot wos you graciously pleased to hobserve
I apprehend, young man, that your nature is no softer for this chastening
Sir
you're wery kind to say so. I hope my natur is NOT a soft vun, Sir. Wery much obliged to you for your good opinion, Sir
Weller
Weller! Come forth
Wery much obleeged to you, my dear
but I'm quite comfortable vere I am
Wot's gone wrong, mum
Oh, Samuel
your father makes me wretched. Will nothing do him good
Do you hear this here
ull do you good
Wery much indebted to Mrs. Weller for her po-lite inquiries, Sammy
I think a pipe vould benefit me a good deal. Could I be accommodated, Sammy
said Sam, looking round. 'Vere do you feel it now, sir
In the same place, young man
in the same place
Vere may that be, Sir
In the buzzim, young man
I'm afeered, mum
I am afraid, Samuel, that his feelings have made him so indeed
Wot's your usual tap, sir
Oh, my dear young friend
all taps is vanities
Too true, too true, indeed
Well
I des-say they may be, sir; but wich is your partickler wanity? Wich wanity do you like the flavour on best, sir
Oh, my dear young friend
I despise them all. If
if there is any one of them less odious than another, it is the liquor called rum. Warm, my dear young friend, with three lumps of sugar to the tumbler
Wery sorry to say, sir
that they don't allow that particular wanity to be sold in this here establishment
Oh, the hardness of heart of these inveterate men
Oh, the accursed cruelty of these inhuman persecutors
Well, Sammy
I hope you'll find your spirits rose by this here lively wisit. Wery cheerful and improvin' conwersation, ain't it, Sammy
You're a reprobate
and I desire you won't address no more o' them ungraceful remarks to me
Wot are you a-reachin' out, your hand for the tumbler in that 'ere sawage way for
I didn't go to do it, Sammy
Try an in'ard application, sir
Wot do you think o' that, for a go o' wanity, warm, Sir
I'll tell you wot it is, Samivel, my boy
I think there must be somethin' wrong in your mother-in-law's inside, as vell as in that o' the red-nosed man
Wot do you mean
I mean this here, Sammy
Pend upon it, Sammy, it's a constitootional infirmity
Brayvo; wery pretty
Wery pretty
I hope it may do you good, Samuel
I think it vill, mum
I wish I could hope that it would do your father good
Thank'ee, my dear
How do you find yourself arter it, my love
Scoffer
Benighted man
If I don't get no better light than that 'ere moonshine o' yourn, my worthy creetur
ull be tipped over into some hedge or another, with the shepherd in it
A-do, Samivel
Wot's a-do
Well, good-bye, then
Oh, that's wot you're aimin' at, is it
Good-bye
Sammy
Wot do you mean
A pianner-forty, Samivel
as he can have on hire; vun as von't play, Sammy
ud be the good o' that
Let him send to my friend, the cabinet-maker, to fetch it back, Sammy
Are you avake, now
No
There ain't no vurks in it
Merrikins as'll pay all his expenses and more, if he blows 'em up enough
Sam
Sir
I am going for a walk round the prison, and I wish you to attend me. I see a prisoner we know coming this way, Sam
Wich, Sir
Neither
He is an older friend of yours, Sam
O' mine, Sir
You recollect the gentleman very well, I dare say, Sam
or else you are more unmindful of your old acquaintances than I think you are. Hush! not a word, Sam; not a syllable. Here he is
Well, well
you can follow with Sam. I want to speak to you, Mr. Jingle. Can you walk without his arm
Certainly, sir -- all ready -- not too fast -- legs shaky -- head queer -- round and round -- earthquaky sort of feeling -- very
Here, give me your arm
No, no
won't indeed -- rather not
Nonsense
lean upon me, I desire, Sir
Well, I AM damn'd
Now, Sam
I'm a-comin', sir,' replied Mr. Weller, mechanically following his master; and still he lifted not his eyes from Mr. Job Trotter, who walked at his side in silence. Job kept his eyes fixed on the ground for some time. Sam, with his glued to Job's countenance, ran up against the people who were walking about, and fell over little children, and stumbled against steps and railings, without appearing at all sensible of it, until Job, looking stealthily up, said -- 'How do you do, Mr. Weller
It IS him
Things has altered with me, sir
I should think they had
It is indeed
There is no deception now, Mr. Weller. Tears
tears are not the only proofs of distress, nor the best ones
No, they ain't
They may be put on, Mr. Weller
I know they may
some people, indeed, has 'em always ready laid on, and can pull out the plug wenever they likes
Yes
but these sort of things are not so easily counterfeited, Mr. Weller, and it is a more painful process to get them up
Wot have you been a-doin' to yourself
Nothing
I have been doin' nothing for many weeks past
Where are you going, Mr. Weller
Come on
come on
Now
drink that up, ev'ry drop on it, and then turn the pot upside down, to let me see as you've took the medicine
But, my dear Mr. Weller
Down vith it
Well done
How do you find yourself arter it
Better, Sir. I think I am better
O' course you air
It's like puttin' gas in a balloon. I can see with the naked eye that you gets stouter under the operation. Wot do you say to another o' the same dimensions
I would rather not, I am much obliged to you, Sir
much rather not
Vell, then, wot do you say to some wittles
Thanks to your worthy governor, Sir
we have half a leg of mutton, baked, at a quarter before three, with the potatoes under it to save boiling
Wot! Has HE been a-purwidin' for you
He has, Sir
More than that, Mr. Weller; my master being very ill, he got us a room -- we were in a kennel before -- and paid for it, Sir; and come to look at us, at night, when nobody should know. Mr. Weller
I could serve that gentleman till I fell down dead at his feet
I say
I'll trouble you, my friend! None o' that
None o' that, I say, young feller
No man serves him but me. And now we're upon it, I'll let you into another secret besides that
I never heerd, mind you, or read of in story-books, nor see in picters, any angel in tights and gaiters -- not even in spectacles, as I remember, though that may ha' been done for anythin' I know to the contrairey -- but mark my vords, Job Trotter, he's a reg'lar thoroughbred angel for all that; and let me see the man as wenturs to tell me he knows a better vun
Well
you will see how your health becomes, and think about it meanwhile. Make the statement out for me when you feel yourself equal to the task, and I will discuss the subject with you when I have considered it. Now, go to your room. You are tired, and not strong enough to be out long
Curious scene this, is it not, Sam
Wery much so, Sir
ull never cease
I'm wery much mistaken if that ,ere Jingle worn't a-doin somethin' in the water-cart way
Would you like to see a whistling-shop, Sir
What do you mean
A vistlin' shop, Sir
What is that, Sam?-- A bird-fancier's
Bless your heart, no, Sir
a whistling-shop, Sir, is where they sell spirits
This plan, you see, Sir, has been gradually introduced into all the prisons for debt
And it has this wery great advantage
that the turnkeys takes wery good care to seize hold o' ev'rybody but them as pays 'em, that attempts the willainy, and wen it gets in the papers they're applauded for their wigilance; so it cuts two ways -- frightens other people from the trade, and elewates their own characters
Exactly so, Mr. Weller
Well, but are these rooms never searched to ascertain whether any spirits are concealed in them
but the turnkeys knows beforehand, and gives the word to the wistlers, and you may wistle for it wen you go to look
Any more
No more
I have seen enough
My head aches with these scenes, and my heart too. Henceforth I will be a prisoner in my own room
Stop at the house with a green door, driver
Oh! You perwerse creetur
Drive to the 'ouse with the yellow door, cabmin
Now vere am I to pull up
Settle it among yourselves. All I ask is, vere
Most wotes carries the day
The 'ouse with the yellow door, cabman
making
acterrally more noise than if one had come in one's own carriage
Aggrawatin' thing
My dear, it's not my fault
Don't talk to me, you creetur, don't
The house with the red door, cabmin. Oh! If ever a woman was troubled with a ruffinly creetur, that takes a pride and a pleasure in disgracing his wife on every possible occasion afore strangers, I am that woman
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Raddle
What have I been a-doing of
Don't talk to me, don't, you brute, for fear I should be perwoked to forgit my sect and strike you
Well, Tommy
how's your poor dear mother
Oh, she's very well
She's in the front parlour, all ready. I'm ready too, I am
Mrs. Sanders is going, she is
I'm going too, I am
Drat the boy
He thinks of nobody but himself. Here, Tommy, dear
Well
What? The lady as has taken the lodgings
Bless us
It's quite a party
Ah, if you knew what was in the cupboard, you'd say so
What is there, Tommy
You'll tell ME, Tommy, I know
No, I won't
Drat the child
What a prowokin' little wretch it is! Come, Tommy, tell your dear Cluppy
Mother said I wasn't to
I'm a-goin' to have some, I am
Lauk, Mary Ann! what's the matter
It's put me all over in such a tremble, Betsy
Raddle ain't like a man; he leaves everythink to me
Ah, poor thing
I know what her feelin's is, too well
Ah, poor thing! so do I
But what's been the matter
Ah, what has decomposed you, ma'am
I have been a good deal flurried
Why, the fact is
when we alighted at this door, a dispute arose with the driver of the cabrioily
You'd better leave us to bring her round, Raddle
She'll never get better as long as you're here
Why, Mrs. Rogers, ma'am
you've never been introduced, I declare! Mr. Raddle, ma'am; Mrs. Cluppins, ma'am; Mrs. Raddle, ma'am
Which is Mrs. Cluppins's sister
Oh, indeed
Oh, indeed
she was sure she was very happy to have an opportunity of being known to a lady which she had heerd so much in favour of, as Mrs. Rogers
Well, Mr. Raddle
I'm sure you ought to feel very much honoured at you and Tommy being the only gentlemen to escort so many ladies all the way to the Spaniards, at Hampstead. Don't you think he ought, Mrs. Rogers, ma'am
Oh, certainly, ma'am
Oh, certainly
Of course I feel it, ma'am
Indeed, to tell you the truth, I said, as we was a-coming along in the cabrioily
put the wine on
the wrong way
How sweet the country is, to be sure
I almost wish I lived in it always
Oh, you wouldn't like that, ma'am
you wouldn't like it, ma'am
Oh! I should think you was a deal too lively and sought after, to be content with the country, ma'am
Perhaps I am, ma'am. Perhaps I am
For lone people as have got nobody to care for them, or take care of them, or as have been hurt in their mind, or that kind of thing
the country is all very well. The country for a wounded spirit, they say
Would anybody believe, ma'am
that a woman could be married to such a unmanly creetur, which can tamper with a woman's feelings as he does, every hour in the day, ma'am
My dear
I didn't mean anything, my dear
You didn't mean
Go away. I can't bear the sight on you, you brute
You must not flurry yourself, Mary Ann
You really must consider yourself, my dear, which you never do. Now go away, Raddle, there's a good soul, or you'll only aggravate her
You had better take your tea by yourself, Sir, indeed
More company
It's a gentleman
Well, if it ain't Mr. Jackson, the young man from Dodson and Fogg's
Why, gracious! Surely Mr. Pickwick can't have paid the damages
Or hoffered marriage
Dear me, how slow the gentleman is
Why doesn't he make haste
Is anything the matter? Has anything taken place, Mr. Jackson
Nothing whatever, ma'am
How de do, ladies? I have to ask pardon, ladies, for intruding -- but the law, ladies -- the law
I called in Goswell Street
and hearing that you were here, from the slavey, took a coach and came on. Our people want you down in the city directly, Mrs. Bardell
Lor
Yes
It's very important and pressing business, which can't be postponed on any account. Indeed, Dodson expressly said so to me, and so did Fogg. I've kept the coach on purpose for you to go back in
How very strange
But won't you refresh yourself after your walk, Mr. Jackson
Why, really there ain't much time to lose
and I've got a friend here
Oh, ask your friend to come here, Sir
Pray ask your friend here, Sir
Why, thank'ee, I'd rather not
He's not much used to ladies' society, and it makes him bashful. If you'll order the waiter to deliver him anything short, he won't drink it off at once, won't he!-- only try him
Isaac
Well
This is Mrs. Bardell
Oh, I know'd that long ago
Sad thing about these costs of our people's, ain't it
your bill of costs, I mean
I'm very sorry they can't get them
But if you law gentlemen do these things on speculation, why you must get a loss now and then, you know
You gave them a COGNOVIT for the amount of your costs, after the trial, I'm told
Yes. Just as a matter of form
Certainly
Quite a matter of form. Quite
Bless us
We're not going quite so far
Have the goodness to step out
Now, ladies
Come
What place is this
Only one of our public offices
Look sharp, Isaac
Safe and sound
Here we are at last. All right and tight, Mrs. Bardell
What do you mean
Just this
don't be frightened, Mrs. Bardell. There never was a more delicate man than Dodson, ma'am, or a more humane man than Fogg. It was their duty in the way of business, to take you in execution for them costs; but they were anxious to spare your feelings as much as they could. What a comfort it must be, to you, to think how it's been done! This is the Fleet, ma'am. Wish you good-night, Mrs. Bardell. Good-night, Tommy
Don't bother the woman
she's just come in
A prisoner
Who's the plaintives? What for? Speak up, old feller
Dodson and Fogg
execution on COGNOVIT for costs
Here, Job, Job
There
it's too late now. You can't get in to-night; you've got the key of the street, my friend
Never mind me
I can sleep anywhere. But won't it be better to see Mr. Perker to-night, so that we may be there, the first thing in the morning
Why
if it was in anybody else's case, Perker wouldn't be best pleased at my going up to his house; but as it's Mr. Pickwick's, I think I may venture to take a cab and charge it to the office
the office
Now, Lowten
what's the matter? No important letter come in a parcel, is there
No, Sir
This is a messenger from Mr. Pickwick, Sir
From Pickwick, eh
Well, what is it
Dodson and Fogg have taken Mrs. Bardell in execution for her costs, Sir
No
Yes
It seems they got a cognovit out of her, for the amount of 'em, directly after the trial
By Jove
those are the cleverest scamps I ever had anything to do with
The sharpest practitioners I ever knew, Sir
Sharp
There's no knowing where to have them
Very true, Sir, there is not
At ten precisely, I will be there
Sam is quite right. Tell him so. Will you take a glass of wine, Lowten
No, thank you, Sir
You mean yes, I think
Mr. Perker, sir
You don't mean that 'ere, Sir
What does this mean
What has put Sam into this extraordinary state
Oh, nothing, nothing
Come, my dear Sir, draw up your chair to the table. I have a good deal to say to you
What papers are those
The papers in Bardell and Pickwick
You don't like to hear the name of the cause
No, I do not indeed
Sorry for that
because it will form the subject of our conversation
I would rather that the subject should be never mentioned between us, Perker
Pooh, pooh, my dear Sir
It must be mentioned. I have come here on purpose. Now, are you ready to hear what I have to say, my dear Sir? No hurry; if you are not, I can wait. I have this morning's paper here. Your time shall be mine. There
Well, well
Say what you have to say; it's the old story, I suppose
With a difference, my dear Sir; with a difference
Mrs. Bardell, the plaintiff in the action, is within these walls, Sir
I know it
Very good
And you know how she comes here, I suppose; I mean on what grounds, and at whose suit
Yes; at least I have heard Sam's account of the matter
Sam's account of the matter
is, I will venture to say, a perfectly correct one. Well now, my dear Sir, the first question I have to ask, is, whether this woman is to remain here
To remain here
To remain here, my dear Sir
How can you ask me
It rests with Dodson and Fogg; you know that very well
I know nothing of the kind
It does NOT rest with Dodson and Fogg; you know the men, my dear Sir, as well as I do. It rests solely, wholly, and entirely with you
With me
With you
I say, my dear Sir
I say, that her speedy liberation or perpetual imprisonment rests with you, and with you alone. Hear me out, my dear Sir, if you please, and do not be so very energetic, for it will only put you into a perspiration and do no good whatever. I say
I say that nobody but you can rescue her from this den of wretchedness; and that you can only do that, by paying the costs of this suit -- both of plaintive and defendant -- into the hands of these Freeman Court sharks. Now pray be quiet, my dear sir
I have seen the woman, this morning. By paying the costs, you can obtain a full release and discharge from the damages; and further -- this I know is a far greater object of consideration with you, my dear sir -- a voluntary statement, under her hand, in the form of a letter to me, that this business was, from the very first, fomented, and encouraged, and brought about, by these men, Dodson and Fogg; that she deeply regrets ever having been the instrument of annoyance or injury to you; and that she entreats me to intercede with you, and implore your pardon
If I pay her costs for her
A valuable document, indeed
No "if" in the case, my dear Sir
Is this all you have to say to me
Not quite
I cannot undertake to say, at this moment, whether the wording of the cognovit, the nature of the ostensible consideration, and the proof we can get together about the whole conduct of the suit, will be sufficient to justify an indictment for conspiracy. I fear not, my dear Sir; they are too clever for that, I doubt. I do mean to say, however, that the whole facts, taken together, will be sufficient to justify you, in the minds of all reasonable men. And now, my dear Sir, I put it to you. This one hundred and fifty pounds, or whatever it may be -- take it in round numbers -- is nothing to you. A jury had decided against you; well, their verdict is wrong, but still they decided as they thought right, and it IS against you. You have now an opportunity, on easy terms, of placing yourself in a much higher position than you ever could, by remaining here; which would only be imputed, by people who didn't know you, to sheer dogged, wrongheaded, brutal obstinacy; nothing else, my dear Sir, believe me. Can you hesitate to avail yourself of it, when it restores you to your friends, your old pursuits, your health and amusements; when it liberates your faithful and attached servant, whom you otherwise doom to imprisonment for the whole of your life; and above all, when it enables you to take the very magnanimous revenge -- which I know, my dear sir, is one after your own heart -- of releasing this woman from a scene of misery and debauchery, to which no man should ever be consigned, if I had my will, but the infliction of which on any woman, is even more frightful and barbarous. Now I ask you, my dear sir, not only as your legal adviser, but as your very true friend, will you let slip the occasion of attaining all these objects, and doing all this good, for the paltry consideration of a few pounds finding their way into the pockets of a couple of rascals, to whom it makes no manner of difference, except that the more they gain, the more they'll seek, and so the sooner be led into some piece of knavery that must end in a crash? I have put these considerations to you, my dear Sir, very feebly and imperfectly, but I ask you to think of them. Turn them over in your mind as long as you please. I wait here most patiently for your answer
Dear, dear
what an annoyance that door is! Who is that
Me, Sir
I can't speak to you just now, Sam
I am engaged at this moment, Sam
Beg your pardon, Sir
But here's a lady here, Sir, as says she's somethin' wery partickler to disclose
I can't see any lady
I wouldn't make too sure o' that, Sir
If you know'd who was near, sir, I rayther think you'd change your note; as the hawk remarked to himself vith a cheerful laugh, ven he heerd the robin-redbreast a-singin' round the corner
Who is it
Will you see her, Sir
I suppose I must
Well then, all in to begin
Sound the gong, draw up the curtain, and enter the two conspiraytors
Miss Arabella Allen
No
Mrs. Winkle. Pardon, my dear friend, pardon
Oh, Mr. Pickwick
Can you forgive my imprudence
Why, my dear girl
how has all this come about? Come! Sit down, and let me hear it all. How well she looks, doesn't she, Perker
Delightful, my dear Sir
If I were not a married man myself, I should be disposed to envy you, you dog
I can never be grateful enough to you, Sam, I am sure
I shall not forget your exertions in the garden at Clifton
Don't say nothin' wotever about it, ma'am
I only assisted natur, ma'am; as the doctor said to the boy's mother, after he'd bled him to death
Mary, my dear, sit down
Now then; how long have you been married, eh
Only three days
Only three days, eh
Why, what have you been doing these three months
Ah, to be sure
come, account for this idleness. You see Mr. Pickwick's only astonishment is, that it wasn't all over, months ago
Why the fact is
that I could not persuade Bella to run away, for a long time. And when I had persuaded her, it was a long time more before we could find an opportunity. Mary had to give a month's warning, too, before she could leave her place next door, and we couldn't possibly have done it without her assistance
Upon my word
upon my word! you seem to have been very systematic in your proceedings. And is your brother acquainted with all this, my dear
Oh, no, no
Dear Mr. Pickwick, he must only know it from you -- from your lips alone. He is so violent, so prejudiced, and has been so -- so anxious in behalf of his friend, Mr, Sawyer
that I fear the consequences dreadfully
Ah, to be sure
You must take this matter in hand for them, my dear sir. These young men will respect you, when they would listen to nobody else. You must prevent mischief, my dear Sir. Hot blood, hot blood
You forget, my love
you forget that I am a prisoner
No, indeed I do not, my dear Sir
I never have forgotten it. I have never ceased to think how great your sufferings must have been in this shocking place. But I hoped that what no consideration for yourself would induce you to do, a regard to our happiness might. If my brother hears of this, first, from you, I feel certain we shall be reconciled. He is my only relation in the world, Mr. Pickwick, and unless you plead for me, I fear I have lost even him. I have done wrong, very, very wrong, I know
Perker
this is Mr. Jingle, whom I spoke to you about
Very good, my dear Sir
You will see me again, young man, to-morrow. I hope you may live to remember and feel deeply, what I shall have to communicate, Sir
Job you know, I think
I know the rascal
See after your friend, and be in the way to-morrow at one. Do you hear? Now, is there anything more
Nothing
You have delivered the little parcel I gave you for your old landlord, Sam
I have, Sir
Poor fellow, poor fellow
God bless you, my friends
Sir
Well, Sam
I wish them horses had been three months and better in the Fleet, Sir
Why, Sam
Wy, Sir
how they would go if they had been
Which, I think
which, I think, Ben, are rather dubious
What's rather dubious
What's dubious
Why, the chances
I forgot
The beer has reminded me that I forgot, Bob -- yes; they ARE dubious
It's wonderful how the poor people patronise me
They knock me up, at all hours of the night; they take medicine to an extent which I should have conceived impossible; they put on blisters and leeches with a perseverance worthy of a better cause; they make additions to their families, in a manner which is quite awful. Six of those last-named little promissory notes, all due on the same day, Ben, and all intrusted to me
It's very gratifying, isn't it
Oh, very
only not quite so much so as the confidence of patients with a shilling or two to spare would be. This business was capitally described in the advertisement, Ben. It is a practice, a very extensive practice -- and that's all
Bob
Bob, I'll tell you what it is
What is it
You must make yourself, with as little delay as possible, master of Arabella's one thousand pounds
Three per cent. consolidated bank annuities, now standing in her name in the book or books of the governor and company of the Bank of England
Exactly so
She has it when she comes of age, or marries. She wants a year of coming of age, and if you plucked up a spirit she needn't want a month of being married
She's a very charming and delightful creature
and has only one fault that I know of, Ben. It happens, unfortunately, that that single blemish is a want of taste. She don't like me
It's my opinion that she don't know what she does like
Perhaps not
But it's my opinion that she does know what she doesn't like, and that's of more importance
I wish
I wish I knew whether any rascal really has been tampering with her, and attempting to engage her affections. I think I should assassinate him, Bob
I'd put a bullet in him, if I found him out
If that didn't do his business, I'd extract it afterwards, and kill him that way
You have never proposed to her, point-blank, Bob
No. Because I saw it would be of no use
You shall do it, before you are twenty-four hours older
She shall have you, or I'll know the reason why. I'll exert my authority
Well
we shall see
We shall see, my friend
You have loved her from a child, my friend. You loved her when we were boys at school together, and, even then, she was wayward and slighted your young feelings. Do you recollect, with all the eagerness of a child's love, one day pressing upon her acceptance, two small caraway-seed biscuits and one sweet apple, neatly folded into a circular parcel with the leaf of a copy-book
I do
She slighted that, I think
She did
She said I had kept the parcel so long in the pockets of my corduroys, that the apple was unpleasantly warm
I remember
Upon which we ate it ourselves, in alternate bites
Martin
Well
Mr. Sawyer's
I was going there
Martin
Well
Ask the lad to step out, and mind the horse
I'm going to mind the horse myself
I can't permit it, on any account
your testimony will be very important, and I must take you into the house with me. You must not stir from my side during the whole interview. Do you hear
I hear
Well; what are you stopping for
Nothing
Dear me
I am so flurried, now I have got here, Martin, that I'm all in a tremble
My dear aunt
how kind of you to look in upon us! Mr. Sawyer, aunt; my friend Mr. Bob Sawyer whom I have spoken to you about, regarding -- you know, aunt
Arabella
My dear Benjamin
don't be alarmed, my dear, but I think I had better speak to Mr. Sawyer, alone, for a moment. Only for one moment
Bob
will you take my aunt into the surgery
Certainly
Step this way, my dear ma'am. Don't be frightened, ma'am. We shall be able to set you to rights in a very short time, I have no doubt, ma'am. Here, my dear ma'am. Now then
Nervous
Camphor-julep and water three times a day, and composing draught at night
I don't know how to begin, Mr. Sawyer
It is so very painful and distressing
You need not begin, ma'am
I can anticipate all you would say. The head is in fault
I should be very sorry to think it was the heart
Not the slightest danger of that, ma'am
The stomach is the primary cause
Mr. Sawyer
Not the least doubt of it, ma'am
Medicine, in time, my dear ma'am, would have prevented it all
Mr. Sawyer
this conduct is either great impertinence to one in my situation, Sir, or it arises from your not understanding the object of my visit. If it had been in the power of medicine, or any foresight I could have used, to prevent what has occurred, I should certainly have done so. I had better see my nephew at once
Stop a moment, ma'am
I'm afraid I have not understood you. What IS the matter, ma'am
My niece, Mr. Sawyer
your friend's sister
Yes, ma'am
Yes, ma'am
Left my home, Mr. Sawyer, three days ago, on a pretended visit to my sister, another aunt of hers, who keeps the large boarding-school, just beyond the third mile-stone, where there is a very large laburnum-tree and an oak gate
Oh, devil take the laburnum-tree, ma'am
Get on a little faster; put a little more steam on, ma'am, pray
This morning
this morning, she
She came back, ma'am, I suppose
Did she come back
No, she did not; she wrote
What did she say
She said, Mr. Sawyer
and it is this I want to prepare Benjamin's mind for, gently and by degrees; she said that she was -- I have got the letter in my pocket, Mr. Sawyer, but my glasses are in the carriage, and I should only waste your time if I attempted to point out the passage to you, without them; she said, in short, Mr. Sawyer, that she was married
What
Married
Ben, my boy, she's bolted
Mr. Allen
what is the matter, Sir
Never mind, Sir
What is it
Is he unwell
My sister, my dear Sir; my sister
Oh, is that all
We shall easily arrange that matter, I hope. Your sister is safe and well, and I am here, my dear Sir, to
Sorry to do anythin' as may cause an interruption to such wery pleasant proceedin's, as the king said wen he dissolved the parliament
but there's another experiment here, sir. Here's a wenerable old lady a -- lyin' on the carpet waitin' for dissection, or galwinism, or some other rewivin' and scientific inwention
I forgot
It is my aunt
Dear me
Poor lady! Gently Sam, gently
Strange sitivation for one o' the family
Now depitty sawbones, bring out the wollatilly
We are all friends here, I presume
Your sister, my dear Sir
is in London; well and happy
Her happiness is no object to me, sir
Her husband IS an object to ME, Sir
He shall be an object to me, sir, at twelve paces, and a pretty object I'll make of him, sir -- a mean-spirited scoundrel
Stay, sir
before you apply those epithets to the gentleman in question, consider, dispassionately, the extent of his fault, and above all remember that he is a friend of mine
What
His name
His name
Mr. Nathaniel Winkle
Then it's you, is it, Sir, who have encouraged and brought about this match
And it's this gentleman's servant, I suppose
who has been skulking about my house, and endeavouring to entrap my servants to conspire against their mistress.-- Martin
Well
Is that the young man you saw in the lane, whom you told me about, this morning
That's the man
knowed him afore
And this is the faithful creature
whom I had nearly suffocated!-- Mr. Pickwick, how dare you allow your fellow to be employed in the abduction of my sister? I demand that you explain this matter, sir
Explain it, sir
It's a conspiracy
A regular plant
A disgraceful imposition
Nothing but a do
Pray hear me
I have rendered no assistance in this matter, beyond being present at one interview between the young people which I could not prevent, and from which I conceived my presence would remove any slight colouring of impropriety that it might otherwise have had; this is the whole share I have had in the transaction, and I had no suspicion that an immediate marriage was even contemplated. Though, mind
mind, I do not say I should have prevented it, if I had known that it was intended
You hear that, all of you; you hear that
I hope they do
and
I hope they hear this, Sir, also. That from what has been stated to me, sir, I assert that you were by no means justified in attempting to force your sister's inclinations as you did, and that you should rather have endeavoured by your kindness and forbearance to have supplied the place of other nearer relations whom she had never known, from a child. As regards my young friend, I must beg to add, that in every point of worldly advantage he is, at least, on an equal footing with yourself, if not on a much better one, and that unless I hear this question discussed with becoming temper and moderation, I decline hearing any more said upon the subject
wich is this here: a indiwidual in company has called me a feller
That has nothing whatever to do with the matter, Sam
Pray hold your tongue
I ain't a-goin' to say nothin' on that 'ere pint, sir
And now
we'll have a jolly night
I am sorry
that I must return to my inn. I have not been accustomed to fatigue lately, and my journey has tired me exceedingly
You'll take some tea, Mr. Pickwick
Thank you, I would rather not
Shall I order a private room, Sir
Why, no, Sam
as I dined in the coffee-room, and shall go to bed soon, it is hardly worth while. See who there is in the travellers' room, Sam
I will join them
He's a queer customer, the vun-eyed vun, sir
He's a-gammonin' that 'ere landlord, he is, sir, till he don't rightly know wether he's a-standing on the soles of his boots or the crown of his hat
Well, I wouldn't have believed it! The strangest thing I ever heard! Couldn't have supposed it possible
Servant, sir
Fine night, sir
Very much so indeed
I think I've seen you before
I don't recollect you
I dare say not
You didn't know me, but I knew two friends of yours that were stopping at the Peacock at Eatanswill, at the time of the election
Oh, indeed
Yes
I mentioned a little circumstance to them about a friend of mine of the name of Tom Smart. Perhaps you've heard them speak of it
Often
He was your uncle, I think
No, no; only a friend of my uncle's
He was a wonderful man, that uncle of yours, though
Well, I think he was; I think I may say he was
I could tell you a story about that same uncle, gentlemen, that would rather surprise you
Could you
Let us hear it, by all means
My uncle, gentlemen
I have always considered it a great point in my uncle's character, gentlemen, that he was the intimate friend and companion of Tom Smart, of the great house of Bilson and Slum, Cateaton Street, City. My uncle collected for Tiggin and Welps, but for a long time he went pretty near the same journey as Tom; and the very first night they met, my uncle took a fancy for Tom, and Tom took a fancy for my uncle. They made a bet of a new hat before they had known each other half an hour, who should brew the best quart of punch and drink it the quickest. My uncle was judged to have won the making, but Tom Smart beat him in the drinking by about half a salt-spoonful. They took another quart apiece to drink each other's health in, and were staunch friends ever afterwards. There's a destiny in these things, gentlemen; we can't help it. 'In personal appearance, my uncle was a trifle shorter than the middle size; he was a thought stouter too, than the ordinary run of people, and perhaps his face might be a shade redder. He had the jolliest face you ever saw, gentleman: something like Punch, with a handsome nose and chin; his eyes were always twinkling and sparkling with good-humour; and a smile -- not one of your unmeaning wooden grins, but a real, merry, hearty, good- tempered smile -- was perpetually on his countenance. He was pitched out of his gig once, and knocked, head first, against a milestone. There he lay, stunned, and so cut about the face with some gravel which had been heaped up alongside it, that, to use my uncle's own strong expression, if his mother could have revisited the earth, she wouldn't have known him. Indeed, when I come to think of the matter, gentlemen, I feel pretty sure she wouldn't. for she died when my uncle was two years and seven months old, and I think it's very likely that, even without the gravel, his top-boots would have puzzled the good lady not a little; to say nothing of his jolly red face. However, there he lay, and I have heard my uncle say, many a time, that the man said who picked him up that he was smiling as merrily as if he had tumbled out for a treat, and that after they had bled him, the first faint glimmerings of returning animation, were his jumping up in bed, bursting out into a loud laugh, kissing the young woman who held the basin, and demanding a mutton chop and a pickled walnut. He was very fond of pickled walnuts, gentlemen. He said he always found that, taken without vinegar, they relished the beer. 

'My uncle's great journey was in the fall of the leaf, at which time he collected debts, and took orders, in the north; going from London to Edinburgh, from Edinburgh to Glasgow, from Glasgow back to Edinburgh, and thence to London by the smack. You are to understand that his second visit to Edinburgh was for his own pleasure. He used to go back for a week, just to look up his old friends; and what with breakfasting with this one, lunching with that, dining with the third, and supping with another, a pretty tight week he used to make of it. I don't know whether any of you, gentlemen, ever partook of a real substantial hospitable Scotch breakfast, and then went out to a slight lunch of a bushel of oysters, a dozen or so of bottled ale, and a noggin or two of whiskey to close up with. If you ever did, you will agree with me that it requires a pretty strong head to go out to dinner and supper afterwards. 

'But bless your hearts and eyebrows, all this sort of thing was nothing to my uncle! He was so well seasoned, that it was mere child's play. I have heard him say that he could see the Dundee people out, any day, and walk home afterwards without staggering; and yet the Dundee people have as strong heads and as strong punch, gentlemen, as you are likely to meet with, between the poles. I have heard of a Glasgow man and a Dundee man drinking against each other for fifteen hours at a sitting. They were both suffocated, as nearly as could be ascertained, at the same moment, but with this trifling exception, gentlemen, they were not a bit the worse for it. 

'One night, within four-and-twenty hours of the time when he had settled to take shipping for London, my uncle supped at the house of a very old friend of his, a Bailie Mac something and four syllables after it, who lived in the old town of Edinburgh. There were the bailie's wife, and the bailie's three daughters, and the bailie's grown-up son, and three or four stout, bushy eye- browed, canny, old Scotch fellows, that the bailie had got together to do honour to my uncle, and help to make merry. It was a glorious supper. There was kippered salmon, and Finnan haddocks, and a lamb's head, and a haggis -- a celebrated Scotch dish, gentlemen, which my uncle used to say always looked to him, when it came to table, very much like a Cupid's stomach -- and a great many other things besides, that I forget the names of, but very good things, notwithstanding. The lassies were pretty and agreeable; the bailie's wife was one of the best creatures that ever lived; and my uncle was in thoroughly good cue. The consequence of which was, that the young ladies tittered and giggled, and the old lady laughed out loud, and the bailie and the other old fellows roared till they were red in the face, the whole mortal time. I don't quite recollect how many tumblers of whiskey-toddy each man drank after supper; but this I know, that about one o'clock in the morning, the bailie's grown-up son became insensible while attempting the first verse of "Willie brewed a peck o' maut"; and he having been, for half an hour before, the only other man visible above the mahogany, it occurred to my uncle that it was almost time to think about going, especially as drinking had set in at seven o'clock, in order that he might get home at a decent hour. But, thinking it might not be quite polite to go just then, my uncle voted himself into the chair, mixed another glass, rose to propose his own health, addressed himself in a neat and complimentary speech, and drank the toast with great enthusiasm. Still nobody woke; so my uncle took a little drop more -- neat this time, to prevent the toddy from disagreeing with him -- and, laying violent hands on his hat, sallied forth into the street. 

'it was a wild, gusty night when my uncle closed the bailie's door, and settling his hat firmly on his head to prevent the wind from taking it, thrust his hands into his pockets, and looking upward, took a short survey of the state of the weather. The clouds were drifting over the moon at their giddiest speed; at one time wholly obscuring her; at another, suffering her to burst forth in full splendour and shed her light on all the objects around; anon, driving over her again, with increased velocity, and shrouding everything in darkness. "Really, this won't do," said my uncle, addressing himself to the weather, as if he felt himself personally offended. "This is not at all the kind of thing for my voyage. It will not do at any price," said my uncle, very impressively. Having repeated this, several times, he recovered his balance with some difficulty -- for he was rather giddy with looking up into the sky so long -- and walked merrily on. 

'The bailie's house was in the Canongate, and my uncle was going to the other end of Leith Walk, rather better than a mile's journey. On either side of him, there shot up against the dark sky, tall, gaunt, straggling houses, with time-stained fronts, and windows that seemed to have shared the lot of eyes in mortals, and to have grown dim and sunken with age. Six, seven, eight Storey high, were the houses; storey piled upon storey, as children build with cards -- throwing their dark shadows over the roughly paved road, and making the dark night darker. A few oil lamps were scattered at long distances, but they only served to mark the dirty entrance to some narrow close, or to show where a common stair communicated, by steep and intricate windings, with the various flats above. Glancing at all these things with the air of a man who had seen them too often before, to think them worthy of much notice now, my uncle walked up the middle of the street, with a thumb in each waistcoat pocket, indulging from time to time in various snatches of song, chanted forth with such good-will and spirit, that the quiet honest folk started from their first sleep and lay trembling in bed till the sound died away in the distance; when, satisfying themselves that it was only some drunken ne'er-do-weel finding his way home, they covered themselves up warm and fell asleep again. 

'I am particular in describing how my uncle walked up the middle of the street, with his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets, gentlemen, because, as he often used to say (and with great reason too) there is nothing at all extraordinary in this story, unless you distinctly understand at the beginning, that he was not by any means of a marvellous or romantic turn. 

'Gentlemen, my uncle walked on with his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets, taking the middle of the street to himself, and singing, now a verse of a love song, and then a verse of a drinking one, and when he was tired of both, whistling melodiously, until he reached the North Bridge, which, at this point, connects the old and new towns of Edinburgh. Here he stopped for a minute, to look at the strange, irregular clusters of lights piled one above the other, and twinkling afar off so high, that they looked like stars, gleaming from the castle walls on the one side and the Calton Hill on the other, as if they illuminated veritable castles in the air; while the old picturesque town slept heavily on, in gloom and darkness below: its palace and chapel of Holyrood, guarded day and night, as a friend of my uncle's used to say, by old Arthur's Seat, towering, surly and dark, like some gruff genius, over the ancient city he has watched so long. I say, gentlemen, my uncle stopped here, for a minute, to look about him; and then, paying a compliment to the weather, which had a little cleared up, though the moon was sinking, walked on again, as royally as before; keeping the middle of the road with great dignity, and looking as if he would very much like to meet with somebody who would dispute possession of it with him. There was nobody at all disposed to contest the point, as it happened; and so, on he went, with his thumbs in his waistcoat pockets, like a lamb. 

'When my uncle reached the end of Leith Walk, he had to cross a pretty large piece of waste ground which separated him from a short street which he had to turn down to go direct to his lodging. Now, in this piece of waste ground, there was, at that time, an enclosure belonging to some wheelwright who contracted with the Post Office for the purchase of old, worn-out mail coaches; and my uncle, being very fond of coaches, old, young, or middle-aged, all at once took it into his head to step out of his road for no other purpose than to peep between the palings at these mails -- about a dozen of which he remembered to have seen, crowded together in a very forlorn and dismantled state, inside. My uncle was a very enthusiastic, emphatic sort of person, gentlemen; so, finding that he could not obtain a good peep between the palings he got over them, and sitting himself quietly down on an old axle-tree, began to contemplate the mail coaches with a deal of gravity. 

'There might be a dozen of them, or there might be more -- my uncle was never quite certain on this point, and being a man of very scrupulous veracity about numbers, didn't like to say -- but there they stood, all huddled together in the most desolate condition imaginable. The doors had been torn from their hinges and removed; the linings had been stripped off, only a shred hanging here and there by a rusty nail; the lamps were gone, the poles had long since vanished, the ironwork was rusty, the paint was worn away; the wind whistled through the chinks in the bare woodwork; and the rain, which had collected on the roofs, fell, drop by drop, into the insides with a hollow and melancholy sound. They were the decaying skeletons of departed mails, and in that lonely place, at that time of night, they looked chill and dismal. 

'My uncle rested his head upon his hands, and thought of the busy, bustling people who had rattled about, years before, in the old coaches, and were now as silent and changed; he thought of the numbers of people to whom one of these crazy, mouldering vehicles had borne, night after night, for many years, and through all weathers, the anxiously expected intelligence, the eagerly looked-for remittance, the promised assurance of health and safety, the sudden announcement of sickness and death. The merchant, the lover, the wife, the widow, the mother, the school- boy, the very child who tottered to the door at the postman's knock -- how had they all looked forward to the arrival of the old coach. And where were they all now? 'Gentlemen, my uncle used to SAY that he thought all this at the time, but I rather suspect he learned it out of some book afterwards, for he distinctly stated that he fell into a kind of doze, as he sat on the old axle-tree looking at the decayed mail coaches, and that he was suddenly awakened by some deep church bell striking two. Now, my uncle was never a fast thinker, and if he had thought all these things, I am quite certain it would have taken him till full half-past two o'clock at the very least. I am, therefore, decidedly of opinion, gentlemen, that my uncle fell into a kind of doze, without having thought about anything at all. 

'Be this as it may, a church bell struck two. My uncle woke, rubbed his eyes, and jumped up in astonishment. 

'In one instant, after the clock struck two, the whole of this deserted and quiet spot had become a scene of most extraordinary life and animation. The mail coach doors were on their hinges, the lining was replaced, the ironwork was as good as new, the paint was restored, the lamps were alight; cushions and greatcoats were on every coach-box, porters were thrusting parcels into every boot, guards were stowing away letter-bags, hostlers were dashing pails of water against the renovated wheels; numbers of men were pushing about, fixing poles into every coach; passengers arrived, portmanteaus were handed up, horses were put to; in short, it was perfectly clear that every mail there, was to be off directly. Gentlemen, my uncle opened his eyes so wide at all this, that, to the very last moment of his life, he used to wonder how it fell out that he had ever been able to shut 'em again. 

' "Now then!" said a voice, as my uncle felt a hand on his shoulder, "you're booked for one inside. You'd better get in." 

' "I booked!" said my uncle, turning round. 

' "Yes, certainly." 

'My uncle, gentlemen, could say nothing, he was so very much astonished. The queerest thing of all was that although there was such a crowd of persons, and although fresh faces were pouring in, every moment, there was no telling where they came from. They seemed to start up, in some strange manner, from the ground, or the air, and disappear in the same way. When a porter had put his luggage in the coach, and received his fare, he turned round and was gone; and before my uncle had well begun to wonder what had become of him, half a dozen fresh ones started up, and staggered along under the weight of parcels, which seemed big enough to crush them. The passengers were all dressed so oddly too! Large, broad-skirted laced coats, with great cuffs and no collars; and wigs, gentlemen -- great formal wigs with a tie behind. My uncle could make nothing of it. 

' "Now, are you going to get in?" said the person who had addressed my uncle before. He was dressed as a mail guard, with a wig on his head and most enormous cuffs to his coat, and had a lantern in one hand, and a huge blunderbuss in the other, which he was going to stow away in his little arm-chest. "ARE you going to get in, Jack Martin?" said the guard, holding the lantern to my uncle's face. 

' "Hollo!" said my uncle, falling back a step or two. "That's familiar!" 

' "It's so on the way-bill," said the guard. 

' "Isn't there a 'Mister' before it?" said my uncle. For he felt, gentlemen, that for a guard he didn't know, to call him Jack Martin, was a liberty which the Post Office wouldn't have sanctioned if they had known it. 

' "No, there is not," rejoined the guard coolly. 

' "Is the fare paid?" inquired my uncle. 

' "Of course it is," rejoined the guard. 

' "it is, is it?" said my uncle. "Then here goes! Which coach?" 

' "This," said the guard, pointing to an old-fashioned Edinburgh and London mail, which had the steps down and the door open. "Stop! Here are the other passengers. Let them get in first." 

'As the guard spoke, there all at once appeared, right in front of my uncle, a young gentleman in a powdered wig, and a sky- blue coat trimmed with silver, made very full and broad in the skirts, which were lined with buckram. Tiggin and Welps were in the printed calico and waistcoat piece line, gentlemen, so my uncle knew all the materials at once. He wore knee breeches, and a kind of leggings rolled up over his silk stockings, and shoes with buckles; he had ruffles at his wrists, a three-cornered hat on his head, and a long taper sword by his side. The flaps of his waist- coat came half-way down his thighs, and the ends of his cravat reached to his waist. He stalked gravely to the coach door, pulled off his hat, and held it above his head at arm's length, cocking his little finger in the air at the same time, as some affected people do, when they take a cup of tea. Then he drew his feet together, and made a low, grave bow, and then put out his left hand. My uncle was just going to step forward, and shake it heartily, when he perceived that these attentions were directed, not towards him, but to a young lady who just then appeared at the foot of the steps, attired in an old-fashioned green velvet dress with a long waist and stomacher. She had no bonnet on her head, gentlemen, which was muffled in a black silk hood, but she looked round for an instant as she prepared to get into the coach, and such a beautiful face as she disclosed, my uncle had never seen -- not even in a picture. She got into the coach, holding up her dress with one hand; and as my uncle always said with a round oath, when he told the story, he wouldn't have believed it possible that legs and feet could have been brought to such a state of perfection unless he had seen them with his own eyes. 

'But, in this one glimpse of the beautiful face, my uncle saw that the young lady cast an imploring look upon him, and that she appeared terrified and distressed. He noticed, too, that the young fellow in the powdered wig, notwithstanding his show of gallantry, which was all very fine and grand, clasped her tight by the wrist when she got in, and followed himself immediately afterwards. An uncommonly ill-looking fellow, in a close brown wig, and a plum-coloured suit, wearing a very large sword, and boots up to his hips, belonged to the party; and when he sat himself down next to the young lady, who shrank into a corner at his approach, my uncle was confirmed in his original impression that something dark and mysterious was going forward, or, as he always said himself, that "there was a screw loose somewhere." It's quite surprising how quickly he made up his mind to help the lady at any peril, if she needed any help. 

' "Death and lightning!" exclaimed the young gentleman, laying his hand upon his sword as my uncle entered the coach. 

' "Blood and thunder!" roared the other gentleman. With this, he whipped his sword out, and made a lunge at my uncle without further ceremony. My uncle had no weapon about him, but with great dexterity he snatched the ill-looking gentleman's three-cornered hat from his head, and, receiving the point of his sword right through the crown, squeezed the sides together, and held it tight. 

' "Pink him behind!" cried the ill-looking gentleman to his companion, as he struggled to regain his sword. 

' "He had better not," cried my uncle, displaying the heel of one of his shoes, in a threatening manner. "I'll kick his brains out, if he has any --, or fracture his skull if he hasn't." Exerting all his strength, at this moment, my uncle wrenched the ill-looking man's sword from his grasp, and flung it clean out of the coach window, upon which the younger gentleman vociferated, "Death and lightning!" again, and laid his hand upon the hilt of his sword, in a very fierce manner, but didn't draw it. Perhaps, gentlemen, as my uncle used to say with a smile, perhaps he was afraid of alarming the lady. 

' "Now, gentlemen," said my uncle, taking his seat deliberately, "I don't want to have any death, with or without lightning, in a lady's presence, and we have had quite blood and thundering enough for one journey; so, if you please, we'll sit in our places like quiet insides. Here, guard, pick up that gentleman's carving-knife." 

'As quickly as my uncle said the words, the guard appeared at the coach window, with the gentleman's sword in his hand. He held up his lantern, and looked earnestly in my uncle's face, as he handed it in, when, by its light, my uncle saw, to his great surprise, that an immense crowd of mail-coach guards swarmed round the window, every one of whom had his eyes earnestly fixed upon him too. He had never seen such a sea of white faces, red bodies, and earnest eyes, in all his born days. 

' "This is the strangest sort of thing I ever had anything to do with," thought my uncle; "allow me to return you your hat, sir." 

'The ill-looking gentleman received his three-cornered hat in silence, looked at the hole in the middle with an inquiring air, and finally stuck it on the top of his wig with a solemnity the effect of which was a trifle impaired by his sneezing violently at the moment, and jerking it off again. 

' "All right!" cried the guard with the lantern, mounting into his little seat behind. Away they went. My uncle peeped out of the coach window as they emerged from the yard, and observed that the other mails, with coachmen, guards, horses, and passengers, complete, were driving round and round in circles, at a slow trot of about five miles an hour. My uncle burned with indignation, gentlemen. As a commercial man, he felt that the mail-bags were not to be trifled with, and he resolved to memorialise the Post Office on the subject, the very instant he reached London. 

'At present, however, his thoughts were occupied with the young lady who sat in the farthest corner of the coach, with her face muffled closely in her hood; the gentleman with the sky-blue coat sitting opposite to her; the other man in the plum-coloured suit, by her side; and both watching her intently. If she so much as rustled the folds of her hood, he could hear the ill-looking man clap his hand upon his sword, and could tell by the other's breathing (it was so dark he couldn't see his face) that he was looking as big as if he were going to devour her at a mouthful. This roused my uncle more and more, and he resolved, come what might, to see the end of it. He had a great admiration for bright eyes, and sweet faces, and pretty legs and feet; in short, he was fond of the whole sex. It runs in our family, gentleman -- so am I. 

'Many were the devices which my uncle practised, to attract the lady's attention, or at all events, to engage the mysterious gentlemen in conversation. They were all in vain; the gentlemen wouldn't talk, and the lady didn't dare. He thrust his head out of the coach window at intervals, and bawled out to know why they didn't go faster. But he called till he was hoarse; nobody paid the least attention to him. He leaned back in the coach, and thought of the beautiful face, and the feet and legs. This answered better; it whiled away the time, and kept him from wondering where he was going, and how it was that he found himself in such an odd situation. Not that this would have worried him much, anyway -- he was a mighty free and easy, roving, devil-may-care sort of person, was my uncle, gentlemen. 

'All of a sudden the coach stopped. "Hollo!" said my uncle, "what's in the wind now?" 

' "Alight here," said the guard, letting down the steps. 

' "Here!" cried my uncle. 

' "Here," rejoined the guard. 

' "I'll do nothing of the sort," said my uncle. 

' "Very well, then stop where you are," said the guard. 

' "I will," said my uncle. 

' "Do," said the guard. 

'The passengers had regarded this colloquy with great attention, and, finding that my uncle was determined not to alight, the younger man squeezed past him, to hand the lady out. At this moment, the ill-looking man was inspecting the hole in the crown of his three-cornered hat. As the young lady brushed past, she dropped one of her gloves into my uncle's hand, and softly whispered, with her lips so close to his face that he felt her warm breath on his nose, the single word "Help!" Gentlemen, my uncle leaped out of the coach at once, with such violence that it rocked on the springs again. 

' "Oh! you've thought better of it, have you?" said the guard, when he saw my uncle standing on the ground. 

'My uncle looked at the guard for a few seconds, in some doubt whether it wouldn't be better to wrench his blunderbuss from him, fire it in the face of the man with the big sword, knock the rest of the company over the head with the stock, snatch up the young lady, and go off in the smoke. On second thoughts, however, he abandoned this plan, as being a shade too melodramatic in the execution, and followed the two mysterious men, who, keeping the lady between them, were now entering an old house in front of which the coach had stopped. They turned into the passage, and my uncle followed. 

'Of all the ruinous and desolate places my uncle had ever beheld, this was the most so. It looked as if it had once been a large house of entertainment; but the roof had fallen in, in many places, and the stairs were steep, rugged, and broken. There was a huge fireplace in the room into which they walked, and the chimney was blackened with smoke; but no warm blaze lighted it up now. The white feathery dust of burned wood was still strewed over the hearth, but the stove was cold, and all was dark and gloomy. 

' "Well," said my uncle, as he looked about him, "a mail travelling at the rate of six miles and a half an hour, and stopping for an indefinite time at such a hole as this, is rather an irregular sort of proceeding, I fancy. This shall be made known. I'll write to the papers." 

'My uncle said this in a pretty loud voice, and in an open, unreserved sort of manner, with the view of engaging the two strangers in conversation if he could. But, neither of them took any more notice of him than whispering to each other, and scowling at him as they did so. The lady was at the farther end of the room, and once she ventured to wave her hand, as if beseeching my uncle's assistance. 

'At length the two strangers advanced a little, and the conversation began in earnest. 

' "You don't know this is a private room, I suppose, fellow?" said the gentleman in sky-blue. 

' "No, I do not, fellow," rejoined my uncle. "Only, if this is a private room specially ordered for the occasion, I should think the public room must be a VERY comfortable one;" with this, my uncle sat himself down in a high-backed chair, and took such an accurate measure of the gentleman, with his eyes, that Tiggin and Welps could have supplied him with printed calico for a suit, and not an inch too much or too little, from that estimate alone. 

' "Quit this room," said both men together, grasping their swords. 

' "Eh?" said my uncle, not at all appearing to comprehend their meaning. 

' "Quit the room, or you are a dead man," said the ill-looking fellow with the large sword, drawing it at the same time and flourishing it in the air. 

' "Down with him!" cried the gentleman in sky-blue, drawing his sword also, and falling back two or three yards. "Down with him!" The lady gave a loud scream. 

'Now, my uncle was always remarkable for great boldness, and great presence of mind. All the time that he had appeared so indifferent to what was going on, he had been looking slily about for some missile or weapon of defence, and at the very instant when the swords were drawn, he espied, standing in the chimney- corner, an old basket-hilted rapier in a rusty scabbard. At one bound, my uncle caught it in his hand, drew it, flourished it gallantly above his head, called aloud to the lady to keep out of the way, hurled the chair at the man in sky-blue, and the scabbard at the man in plum-colour, and taking advantage of the confusion, fell upon them both, pell-mell. 

'Gentlemen, there is an old story -- none the worse for being true -- regarding a fine young Irish gentleman, who being asked if he could play the fiddle, replied he had no doubt he could, but he couldn't exactly say, for certain, because he had never tried. This is not inapplicable to my uncle and his fencing. He had never had a sword in his hand before, except once when he played Richard the Third at a private theatre, upon which occasion it was arranged with Richmond that he was to be run through, from behind, without showing fight at all. But here he was, cutting and slashing with two experienced swordsman, thrusting, and guarding, and poking, and slicing, and acquitting himself in the most manful and dexterous manner possible, although up to that time he had never been aware that he had the least notion of the science. It only shows how true the old saying is, that a man never knows what he can do till he tries, gentlemen. 

'The noise of the combat was terrific; each of the three combatants swearing like troopers, and their swords clashing with as much noise as if all the knives and steels in Newport market were rattling together, at the same time. When it was at its very height, the lady (to encourage my uncle most probably) withdrew her hood entirely from her face, and disclosed a countenance of such dazzling beauty, that he would have fought against fifty men, to win one smile from it and die. He had done wonders before, but now he began to powder away like a raving mad giant. 

'At this very moment, the gentleman in sky-blue turning round, and seeing the young lady with her face uncovered, vented an exclamation of rage and jealousy, and, turning his weapon against her beautiful bosom, pointed a thrust at her heart, which caused my uncle to utter a cry of apprehension that made the building ring. The lady stepped lightly aside, and snatching the young man's sword from his hand, before he had recovered his balance, drove him to the wall, and running it through him, and the panelling, up to the very hilt, pinned him there, hard and fast. It was a splendid example. My uncle, with a loud shout of triumph, and a strength that was irresistible, made his adversary retreat in the same direction, and plunging the old rapier into the very centre of a large red flower in the pattern of his waistcoat, nailed him beside his friend; there they both stood, gentlemen, jerking their arms and legs about in agony, like the toy-shop figures that are moved by a piece of pack-thread. My uncle always said, afterwards, that this was one of the surest means he knew of, for disposing of an enemy; but it was liable to one objection on the ground of expense, inasmuch as it involved the loss of a sword for every man disabled. 

' "The mail, the mail!" cried the lady, running up to my uncle and throwing her beautiful arms round his neck; "we may yet escape." 

' "May!" cried my uncle; "why, my dear, there's nobody else to kill, is there?" My uncle was rather disappointed, gentlemen, for he thought a little quiet bit of love-making would be agreeable after the slaughtering, if it were only to change the subject. 

' "We have not an instant to lose here," said the young lady. "He (pointing to the young gentleman in sky-blue) is the only son of the powerful Marquess of Filletoville." ' "Well then, my dear, I'm afraid he'll never come to the title," said my uncle, looking coolly at the young gentleman as he stood fixed up against the wall, in the cockchafer fashion that I have described. "You have cut off the entail, my love." 

' "I have been torn from my home and my friends by these villains," said the young lady, her features glowing with indignation. "That wretch would have married me by violence in another hour." 

' "Confound his impudence!" said my uncle, bestowing a very contemptuous look on the dying heir of Filletoville. 

' "As you may guess from what you have seen," said the young lady, "the party were prepared to murder me if I appealed to any one for assistance. If their accomplices find us here, we are lost. Two minutes hence may be too late. The mail!" With these words, overpowered by her feelings, and the exertion of sticking the young Marquess of Filletoville, she sank into my uncle's arms. My uncle caught her up, and bore her to the house door. There stood the mail, with four long-tailed, flowing-maned, black horses, ready harnessed; but no coachman, no guard, no hostler even, at the horses' heads. 

'Gentlemen, I hope I do no injustice to my uncle's memory, when I express my opinion, that although he was a bachelor, he had held some ladies in his arms before this time; I believe, indeed, that he had rather a habit of kissing barmaids; and I know, that in one or two instances, he had been seen by credible witnesses, to hug a landlady in a very perceptible manner. I mention the circumstance, to show what a very uncommon sort of person this beautiful young lady must have been, to have affected my uncle in the way she did; he used to say, that as her long dark hair trailed over his arm, and her beautiful dark eyes fixed themselves upon his face when she recovered, he felt so strange and nervous that his legs trembled beneath him. But who can look in a sweet, soft pair of dark eyes, without feeling queer? I can't, gentlemen. I am afraid to look at some eyes I know, and that's the truth of it. 

' "You will never leave me," murmured the young lady. 

' "Never," said my uncle. And he meant it too. 

' "My dear preserver!" exclaimed the young lady. "My dear, kind, brave preserver!" 

' "Don't," said my uncle, interrupting her. 

' "'Why?" inquired the young lady. 

' "Because your mouth looks so beautiful when you speak," rejoined my uncle, "that I'm afraid I shall be rude enough to kiss it." 

'The young lady put up her hand as if to caution my uncle not to do so, and said -- No, she didn't say anything -- she smiled. When you are looking at a pair of the most delicious lips in the world, and see them gently break into a roguish smile -- if you are very near them, and nobody else by -- you cannot better testify your admiration of their beautiful form and colour than by kissing them at once. My uncle did so, and I honour him for it. 

' "Hark!" cried the young lady, starting. "The noise of wheels, and horses!" 

' "So it is," said my uncle, listening. He had a good ear for wheels, and the trampling of hoofs; but there appeared to be so many horses and carriages rattling towards them, from a distance, that it was impossible to form a guess at their number. The sound was like that of fifty brakes, with six blood cattle in each. 

' "We are pursued!" cried the young lady, clasping her hands. "We are pursued. I have no hope but in you!" 

'There was such an expression of terror in her beautiful face, that my uncle made up his mind at once. He lifted her into the coach, told her not to be frightened, pressed his lips to hers once more, and then advising her to draw up the window to keep the cold air out, mounted to the box. 

' "Stay, love," cried the young lady. 

' "What's the matter?" said my uncle, from the coach-box. 

' "I want to speak to you," said the young lady; "only a word. Only one word, dearest." 

' "Must I get down?" inquired my uncle. The lady made no answer, but she smiled again. Such a smile, gentlemen! It beat the other one, all to nothing. My uncle descended from his perch in a twinkling. 

' "What is it, my dear?" said my uncle, looking in at the coach window. The lady happened to bend forward at the same time, and my uncle thought she looked more beautiful than she had done yet. He was very close to her just then, gentlemen, so he really ought to know. 

' "What is it, my dear?" said my uncle. 

' "Will you never love any one but me -- never marry any one beside?" said the young lady. 

'My uncle swore a great oath that he never would marry anybody else, and the young lady drew in her head, and pulled up the window. He jumped upon the box, squared his elbows, adjusted the ribands, seized the whip which lay on the roof, gave one flick to the off leader, and away went the four long-tailed, flowing-maned black horses, at fifteen good English miles an hour, with the old mail-coach behind them. Whew! How they tore along! 

'The noise behind grew louder. The faster the old mail went, the faster came the pursuers -- men, horses, dogs, were leagued in the pursuit. The noise was frightful, but, above all, rose the voice of the young lady, urging my uncle on, and shrieking, "Faster! Faster!" 

'They whirled past the dark trees, as feathers would be swept before a hurricane. Houses, gates, churches, haystacks, objects of every kind they shot by, with a velocity and noise like roaring waters suddenly let loose. But still the noise of pursuit grew louder, and still my uncle could hear the young lady wildly screaming, "Faster! Faster!" 

'My uncle plied whip and rein, and the horses flew onward till they were white with foam; and yet the noise behind increased; and yet the young lady cried, "Faster! Faster!" My uncle gave a loud stamp on the boot in the energy of the moment, and -- found that it was gray morning, and he was sitting in the wheelwright's yard, on the box of an old Edinburgh mail, shivering with the cold and wet and stamping his feet to warm them! He got down, and looked eagerly inside for the beautiful young lady. Alas! There was neither door nor seat to the coach. It was a mere shell. 

'Of course, my uncle knew very well that there was some mystery in the matter, and that everything had passed exactly as he used to relate it. He remained staunch to the great oath he had sworn to the beautiful young lady, refusing several eligible landladies on her account, and dying a bachelor at last. He always said what a curious thing it was that he should have found out, by such a mere accident as his clambering over the palings, that the ghosts of mail-coaches and horses, guards, coachmen, and passengers, were in the habit of making journeys regularly every night. He used to add, that he believed he was the only living person who had ever been taken as a passenger on one of these excursions. And I think he was right, gentlemen -- at least I never heard of any other
I wonder what these ghosts of mail-coaches carry in their bags
The dead letters, of course
Oh, ah! To be sure
I never thought of that
Sawyer, late Nockemorf
What is the matter
Nothing's the matter, Sir
All right, all right
I'm going, old fellow
You
Yes
and a regular expedition we'll make of it. Here, Sam! Look out
What a start it is, isn't it
My dear Sir
I had no idea of your accompanying us
No, that's just the very thing
That's the joke
Oh, that's the joke, is it
Of course
It's the whole point of the thing, you know -- that, and leaving the business to take care of itself, as it seems to have made up its mind not to take care of me
Bless me, you are surely not mad enough to think of leaving your patients without anybody to attend them
Why not
I shall save by it, you know. None of them ever pay. Besides
they will be all the better for it; for, being nearly out of drugs, and not able to increase my account just now, I should have been obliged to give them calomel all round, and it would have been certain to have disagreed with some of them. So it's all for the best
But this chaise, my young friend, will only hold two; and I am pledged to Mr. Allen
Don't think of me for a minute
I've arranged it all; Sam and I will share the dickey between us. Look here. This little bill is to be wafered on the shop door: "Sawyer, late Nockemorf. Inquire of Mrs. Cripps over the way." Mrs. Cripps is my boy's mother. "Mr. Sawyer's very sorry," says Mrs. Cripps, "couldn't help it -- fetched away early this morning to a consultation of the very first surgeons in the country -- couldn't do without him -- would have him at any price -- tremendous operation." The fact is
it'll do me more good than otherwise, I expect. If it gets into one of the local papers, it will be the making of me. Here's Ben; now then, jump in
I wonder
I wonder what all the people we pass, can see in us to make them stare so
It's a neat turn-out
They're not used to see this sort of thing, every day, I dare say
Possibly
It may be so. Perhaps it is
I hope
that our volatile friend is committing no absurdities in that dickey behind
Oh dear, no
Except when he's elevated, Bob's the quietest creature breathing
Mr. Sawyer
Mr. Sawyer, Sir
Hollo
Are you mad, sir
Not a bit of it
only cheerful
Cheerful, sir
Take down that scandalous red handkerchief, I beg. I insist, Sir. Sam, take it down
Come
pray let us have no more of this absurdity
No, no
I didn't mean to do it, only I got so enlivened with the ride that I couldn't help it
Think of the look of the thing
have some regard to appearances
Oh, certainly
it's not the sort of thing at all. All over, governor
What's this
It looks like a case-bottle
I rather think it belongs to Bob
What's to be done
This proceeding is more absurd than the other
I think it would be best to take it in
it would serve him right to take it in and keep it, wouldn't it
It would
shall I
I think it the most proper course we could possibly adopt
What a merry dog it is
He is
You cannot possibly be angry with him
Quite out of the question
What is it
I don't know
It smells, I think, like milk-punch
Oh, indeed
I THINK so
mind, I could not undertake to say certainly, without tasting it
You had better do so
we may as well know what it is
Do you think so
Well; if you are curious to know, of course I have no objection
What is it
Curious
I hardly know, now. Oh, yes
It IS punch
It would serve him right
it would serve him right to drink it every drop
The very thing that occurred to me
Is it, indeed
Then here's his health
After all
his pranks are really very amusing; very entertaining indeed
You may say that
I say! We're going to dine here, aren't we
Dine
Why, we have only come nineteen miles, and have eighty-seven and a half to go
Just the reason why we should take something to enable us to bear up against the fatigue
So it is
lunch is the very thing. Hollo, you sir! Lunch for three, directly; and keep the horses back for a quarter of an hour. Tell them to put everything they have cold, on the table, and some bottled ale, and let us taste your very best Madeira
However
I must do the best I can. I must see him to-night, for I faithfully promised to do so. If they persist in accompanying me, I must make the interview as brief as possible, and be content that, for their own sakes, they will not expose themselves
Close by, Sir
not above five hundred yards, Sir. Mr. Winkle is a wharfinger, Sir, at the canal, sir. Private residence is not -- oh dear, no, sir, not five hundred yards, sir
Take anything now, Sir
Tea or coffee, Sir? Dinner, sir
Nothing now
Very good, sir. Like to order supper, Sir
Not just now
Very good, Sir
Shall I send the chambermaid, gentlemen
You may if you please
If YOU please, sir
And bring some soda-water
Soda-water, Sir! Yes, Sir
Mr. Winkle
Is Mr. Winkle at home, my dear
He is just going to supper, Sir
Give him that card if you please
Say I am sorry to trouble him at so late an hour; but I am anxious to see him to-night, and have only just arrived
Very sorry to leave you standing at the door, Sir
but you was quite strangers to me; and we have such a many trampers that only come to see what they can lay their hands on, that really
There is not the least occasion for any apology, my dear
Not the slightest, my love
odous creetur
Mr. Pickwick, sir, how do you do
Hope I see you well, sir. Glad to see you. Be seated, Mr. Pickwick, I beg, Sir. This gentleman is
My friend, Mr. Sawyer
your son's friend
Oh
I hope you are well, sir
Right as a trivet, sir
This other gentleman
is, as you will see when you have read the letter with which I am intrusted, a very near relative, or I should rather say a very particular friend of your son's. His name is Allen
THAT gentleman
till dinner-time
This letter, Sir, is from your son. You will see, by its contents, that on your favourable and fatherly consideration of it, depend his future happiness and welfare. Will you oblige me by giving it the calmest and coolest perusal, and by discussing the subject afterwards with me, in the tone and spirit in which alone it ought to be discussed? You may judge of the importance of your decision to your son, and his intense anxiety upon the subject, by my waiting upon you, without any previous warning, at so late an hour; and
and under such unfavourable circumstances
Did you speak, Sir
No, sir
You are sure you did not, sir
Oh dear, yes, sir, quite
I thought you did, Sir
Perhaps you LOOKED at me, sir
Oh, no! sir, not at all
I am very glad to hear it, sir
What is Nathaniel's address, Mr. Pickwick
The George and Vulture, at present
George and Vulture. Where is that
George Yard, Lombard Street
In the city
Yes
I suppose there is nothing else which need detain us, Mr. Pickwick
Nothing else, my dear Sir
Nothing else! Have you no opinion to express on this momentous event in our young friend's life? No assurance to convey to him, through me, of the continuance of your affection and protection? Nothing to say which will cheer and sustain him, and the anxious girl who looks to him for comfort and support? My dear Sir, consider
I will consider
I have nothing to say just now. I am a man of business, Mr. Pickwick. I never commit myself hastily in any affair, and from what I see of this, I by no means like the appearance of it. A thousand pounds is not much, Mr. Pickwick
You're very right, Sir
You're an intelligent man. Bob, he's a very knowing fellow this
I am very happy to find that you do me the justice to make the admission, sir
The fact is, Mr. Pickwick, that when I gave my son a roving license for a year or so, to see something of men and manners (which he has done under your auspices), so that he might not enter life a mere boarding-school milk-sop to be gulled by everybody, I never bargained for this. He knows that very well, so if I withdraw my countenance from him on this account, he has no call to be surprised. He shall hear from me, Mr. Pickwick. Good-night, sir. -- Margaret, open the door
Sir
you -- you ought to be ashamed of yourself
As the lady's brother, of course you are an excellent judge of the question
There; that's enough. Pray say no more, Mr. Pickwick. Good-night, gentlemen
You will regret this, Sir
I am at present of a different opinion
Once again, gentlemen, I wish you a good-night
floored
This is pleasant
Wery
You don't seem to mind it
ud do, sir
That's an unanswerable reason, anyhow
Yes, sir
cos his mother's uncle's vife's grandfather vunce lit the king's pipe vith a portable tinder-box
Not a bad notion that, Sam
Wos you ever called in
prentice to a sawbones, to wisit a postboy
I don't remember that I ever was
You never see a postboy in that 'ere hospital as you WALKED (as they says o' the ghosts), did you
No
I don't think I ever did
Never know'd a churchyard were there wos a postboy's tombstone, or see a dead postboy, did you
No
I never did
No
ooman as kep' a goat; and that wos a French donkey, so wery likely he warn't wun o' the reg'lar breed
Well, what has that got to do with the postboys
This here
Without goin' so far as to as-sert, as some wery sensible people do, that postboys and donkeys is both immortal, wot I say is this: that wenever they feels theirselves gettin' stiff and past their work, they just rides off together, wun postboy to a pair in the usual way; wot becomes on 'em nobody knows, but it's wery probable as they starts avay to take their pleasure in some other vorld, for there ain't a man alive as ever see either a donkey or a postboy a-takin' his pleasure in this
I say
this won't do, you know
Bless me
I'm afraid you're wet
Oh, you are, are you
Yes, I am, a little that way, Uncomfortably damp, perhaps
I AM rather wet
I think it's quite impossible to go on to-night
Out of the question, sir
it's a cruelty to animals, sir, to ask 'em to do it. There's beds here, sir
everything clean and comfortable. Wery good little dinner, sir, they can get ready in half an hour -- pair of fowls, sir, and a weal cutlet; French beans, 'taturs, tart, and tidiness. You'd better stop vere you are, sir, if I might recommend. Take adwice, sir, as the doctor said
Well
but I must send a letter to London by some conveyance, so that it may be delivered the very first thing in the morning, or I must go forwards at all hazards
To be delivered immediately
Pay the bearer half-a-crown extra for instant delivery
Very well
then we will stop here
Lights in the Sun, John; make up the fire; the gentlemen are wet
This way, gentlemen; don't trouble yourselves about the postboy now, sir. I'll send him to you when you ring for him, sir. Now, John, the candles
Hollo
I ought to know that 'ere head and them features; the eyeglass, too, and the broad-brimmed tile! Eatansvill to vit, or I'm a Roman
Beggin' your pardon, sir
my master's here, Mr. Pott
Hush! hush
Wot's the matter, Sir
Not a whisper of my name
this is a buff neighbourhood. If the excited and irritable populace knew I was here, I should be torn to pieces
No! Vould you, sir
I should be the victim of their fury
Now young man, what of your master
He's a-stopping here to-night on his vay to town, with a couple of friends
Is Mr. Winkle one of them
No, Sir. Mr. Vinkle stops at home now
He's married
Married
It serves him right
blue
And how are matters going on in Eatanswill
Is the INDEPENDENT still in being
The INDEPENDENT, sir
is still dragging on a wretched and lingering career. Abhorred and despised by even the few who are cognisant of its miserable and disgraceful existence, stifled by the very filth it so profusely scatters, rendered deaf and blind by the exhalations of its own slime, the obscene journal, happily unconscious of its degraded state, is rapidly sinking beneath that treacherous mud which, while it seems to give it a firm standing with the low and debased classes of society, is nevertheless rising above its detested head, and will speedily engulf it for ever
You are a young man, sir
So are you, sir
And are both deeply imbued with those blue principles, which, so long as I live, I have pledged myself to the people of these kingdoms to support and to maintain
Why, I don't exactly know about that
I am
Not buff, Mr. Pickwick
your friend is not buff, sir
No, no
I'm a kind of plaid at present; a compound of all sorts of colours
A waverer
a waverer. I should like to show you a series of eight articles, Sir, that have appeared in the Eatanswill GAZETTE. I think I may venture to say that you would not be long in establishing your opinions on a firm and solid blue basis, sir
I dare say I should turn very blue, long before I got to the end of them
You have seen the literary articles which have appeared at intervals in the Eatanswill GAZETTE in the course of the last three months, and which have excited such general -- I may say such universal -- attention and admiration
Why
the fact is, I have been so much engaged in other ways, that I really have not had an opportunity of perusing them
You should do so, Sir
I will
They appeared in the form of a copious review of a work on Chinese metaphysics, Sir
Oh
from your pen, I hope
From the pen of my critic, Sir
An abstruse subject, I should conceive
Very, Sir
Indeed
I was not aware that that valuable work contained any information respecting Chinese metaphysics
He read, Sir
he read for metaphysics under the letter M, and for China under the letter C, and combined his information, Sir
Is it fair to inquire what great object has brought you so far from home
That object which actuates and animates me in all my gigantic labours, Sir
my country's good
I supposed it was some public mission
Yes, Sir
it is
A Buff ball, Sir, will take place in Birmingham to-morrow evening
God bless me
Yes, Sir, and supper
You don't say so
A reptile contemporary has recently sweltered forth his black venom in the vain and hopeless attempt of sullying the fair name of our distinguished and excellent representative, the Honourable Mr. Slumkey -- that Slumkey whom we, long before he gained his present noble and exalted position, predicted would one day be, as he now is, at once his country's brightest honour, and her proudest boast: alike her bold defender and her honest pride -- our reptile contemporary, we say, has made himself merry, at the expense of a superbly embossed plated coal-scuttle, which has been presented to that glorious man by his enraptured constituents, and towards the purchase of which, the nameless wretch insinuates, the Honourable Mr. Slumkey himself contributed, through a confidential friend of his butler's, more than three-fourths of the whole sum subscribed. Why, does not the crawling creature see, that even if this be the fact, the Honourable Mr. Slumkey only appears in a still more amiable and radiant light than before, if that be possible? Does not even his obtuseness perceive that this amiable and touching desire to carry out the wishes of the constituent body, must for ever endear him to the hearts and souls of such of his fellow townsmen as are not worse than swine; or, in other words, who are not as debased as our contemporary himself? But such is the wretched trickery of hole-and-corner Buffery! These are not its only artifices. Treason is abroad. We boldly state, now that we are goaded to the disclosure, and we throw ourselves on the country and its constables for protection -- we boldly state that secret preparations are at this moment in progress for a Buff ball; which is to be held in a Buff town, in the very heart and centre of a Buff population; which is to be conducted by a Buff master of the ceremonies; which is to be attended by four ultra Buff members of Parliament, and the admission to which, is to be by Buff tickets! Does our fiendish contemporary wince? Let him writhe, in impotent malice, as we pen the words, WE WILL BE THERE
There, Sir
that is the state of the case
Certainly, sir
I can, can I
No doubt of it, Sir
Good
Coachman, I get down here. Guard, my carpet-bag
Send the landlord
Yes, sir
Are you the landlord
I am sir
My name is Slurk
Slurk, sir
Do you know me now, man
Do you know me, man
Well, Sir, I do not know you
Great Heaven
And this is popularity
This
this is gratitude for years of labour and study in behalf of the masses. I alight wet and weary; no enthusiastic crowds press forward to greet their champion; the church bells are silent; the very name elicits no responsive feeling in their torpid bosoms. It is enough
to curdle the ink in one's pen, and induce one to abandon their cause for ever
Did you say brandy-and-water, Sir
Rum
Have you got a fire anywhere
We can light one directly, Sir
Which will throw out no heat until it is bed-time
Is there anybody in the kitchen
I will drink my rum-and-water
by the kitchen fire
I say, we've let the fire out. It's uncommonly cold after the rain, isn't it
It really is
It wouldn't be a bad notion to have a cigar by the kitchen fire, would it
It would be particularly comfortable, I think
Mr. Pott, what do you say
What's the matter
That reptile
What reptile
That reptile
That reptile Slurk, of the INDEPENDENT
Perhaps we had better retire
Never, Sir
never
absurd
atrocity
dirt
slime
Will you allow me to look at your paper, Sir, when you have quite done with it
You will find very little to repay you for your trouble in this contemptible THING, sir
You shall have this presently
Ha! ha! you will be amused with this FELLOW'S audacity
The ribaldry of this miserable man is despicably disgusting
What an impudent blunderer this fellow is
Did you ever read any of this man's foolery, Sir
Never
is it very bad
Oh, shocking! shocking
Really! Dear me, this is too atrocious
If you can wade through a few sentences of malice, meanness, falsehood, perjury, treachery, and cant
you will, perhaps, be somewhat repaid by a laugh at the style of this ungrammatical twaddler
What's that you said, Sir
What's that to you, sir
Ungrammatical twaddler, was it, sir
Yes, sir, it was
and BLUE BORE, Sir, if you like that better; ha! ha
There, sir
and that's the way I would serve the viper who produces it, if I were not, fortunately for him, restrained by the laws of my country
Serve him so, sir
Those laws shall never be appealed to by him, sir, in such a case. Serve him so, sir
Hear! hear
Nothing can be fairer
Serve him so, sir
Serve him so, sir
I will not, sir
Oh, you won't, won't you, sir
you hear this, gentlemen! He won't; not that he's afraid --, oh, no! he WON'T. Ha! ha
I consider you, sir
I consider you a viper. I look upon you, sir, as a man who has placed himself beyond the pale of society, by his most audacious, disgraceful, and abominable public conduct. I view you, sir, personally and politically, in no other light than as a most unparalleled and unmitigated viper
Gentlemen
gentlemen! Consider, for Heaven's sake -- help -- Sam -- here -- pray, gentlemen -- interfere, somebody
Take away that 'ere bag from the t'other madman
Give it up, you wretched little creetur, or I'll smother you in it
You take yourselves off to bed quietly
or I'll put you both in it, and let you fight it out vith the mouth tied, as I vould a dozen sich, if they played these games. And you have the goodness to come this here way, sir, if you please
Dear me, Mr. Weller
Dear ME I vish it vos, my dear
Wot a sweet- lookin' creetur you are, Mary
Lot, Mr. Weller, what nonsense you do talk
Don't what, my dear
Why, that
Lor, do get along with you
And prevented what I was going to say, besides
There's a letter been waiting here for you four days; you hadn't gone away, half an hour, when it came; and more than that, it's got "immediate," on the outside
Vere is it, my love
I took care of it, for you, or I dare say it would have been lost long before this
There, take it; it's more than you deserve
My goodness me
you seem to have grown very fond of it all at once
Hollo
wot's all this
Nothing the matter, I hope
Bless them eyes o' yourn
Never mind my eyes; you had much better read your letter
TONY VELLER
Wot a incomprehensible letter
cept this here signater in print letters; that's his
Perhaps he got somebody to write it for him, and signed it himself afterwards
Stop a minit
And so the poor creetur's dead! I'm sorry for it. She warn't a bad-disposed 'ooman, if them shepherds had let her alone. I'm wery sorry for it
Hows'ever
it wos to be -- and wos, as the old lady said arter she'd married the footman. Can't be helped now, can it, Mary
I must apply to the hemperor for leave of absence
Good-bye
Good-bye
Well, shake hands, won't you
I shan't be wery long avay
You're always away
You no sooner come, Mr. Weller, than you go again
I shan't be avay more than a day, or two, Sir, at the furthest
As long as may be necessary, Sam
you have my full permission to remain
You will tell your father, Sam, that if I can be of any assistance to him in his present situation, I shall be most willing and ready to lend him any aid in my power
Thank'ee, sir
I'll mention it, sir
Sammy
you're welcome
I've been a-callin' to you half a dozen times
but you didn't hear me
No, Sammy
I was in a referee, Sammy
Wot about
In a referee, Sammy
regarding HER, Samivel
Vell, and so you ought to be
Those wos wery sensible observations as she made, Sammy
Wot observations
Them as she made, arter she was took ill
Wot was they
Susan," says I -- I wos took up wery short by this, Samivel; I von't deny it, my boy --"Susan," I says, "you've been a wery good vife to me, altogether; don't say nothin' at all about it; keep a good heart, my dear; and you'll live to see me punch that 'ere Stiggins's head yet." She smiled at this, Samivel
but she died arter all
Vell
So we must, Sammy
There's a Providence in it all
O' course there is
ud become of the undertakers vithout it, Sammy
Hollo
Wot's the matter now
Have a cup of tea, there's a good soul
I von't
I'll see you
furder fust
Oh, dear, dear! How adwersity does change people
It's the only thing 'twixt this and the doctor as shall change my condition
I really never saw a man so cross
Never mind. It's all for my own good; vich is the reflection vith vich the penitent school-boy comforted his feelin's ven they flogged him
You see, Mr. Samuel
as I was telling him yesterday, he will feel lonely, he can't expect but what he should, sir, but he should keep up a good heart, because, dear me, I'm sure we all pity his loss, and are ready to do anything for him; and there's no situation in life so bad, Mr. Samuel, that it can't be mended. Which is what a very worthy person said to me when my husband died
As I don't rekvire any o' your conversation just now, mum, vill you have the goodness to re-tire
Well, Mr. Weller
I'm sure I only spoke to you out of kindness
Wery likely, mum
Samivel, show the lady out, and shut the door after her
ud marry me by force and wiolence afore it was over
Wot! is she so wery fond on you
Fond
I can't keep her avay from me. If I was locked up in a fireproof chest vith a patent Brahmin, she'd find means to get at me, Sammy
Wot a thing it is to be so sought arter
I don't take no pride out on it, Sammy
it's a horrid sitiwation. I'm actiwally drove out o' house and home by it. The breath was scarcely out o' your poor mother-in-law's body, ven vun old 'ooman sends me a pot o' jam, and another a pot o' jelly, and another brews a blessed large jug o' camomile-tea, vich she brings in vith her own hands
cept the camomile-tea vun, as wos a single young lady o' fifty-three
In short, Sammy, I feel that I ain't safe anyveres but on the box
How are you safer there than anyveres else
replied Mr. Weller, looking fixedly at his son
cos a coachman may be on the wery amicablest terms with eighty mile o' females, and yet nobody think that he ever means to marry any vun among 'em. And wot other man can say the same, Sammy
Vell, there's somethin' in that
Wy not
Wy not
ud ha' gone agin their consciences. A reg'lar coachman's a sort o' con-nectin' link betwixt singleness and matrimony, and every practicable man knows it
Wot! You mean, they're gen'ral favorites, and nobody takes adwantage on 'em, p'raps
How it ever come to that 'ere pass
I can't say. Wy it is that long-stage coachmen possess such insiniwations, and is alvays looked up to -- a-dored I may say -- by ev'ry young 'ooman in ev'ry town he vurks through, I don't know. I only know that so it is. It's a regulation of natur -- a dispensary, as your poor mother-in-law used to say
A dispensation
Wery good, Samivel, a dispensation if you like it better
I call it a dispensary, and it's always writ up so, at the places vere they gives you physic for nothin' in your own bottles; that's all
Therefore, my boy, as I do not see the adwisability o' stoppin here to be married vether I vant to or not, and as at the same time I do not vish to separate myself from them interestin' members o' society altogether, I have come to the determination o' driving the Safety, and puttin' up vunce more at the Bell Savage, vich is my nat'ral born element, Sammy
good-vill, stock, and fixters, vill be sold by private contract; and out o' the money, two hundred pound, agreeable to a rekvest o' your mother-in-law's to me, a little afore she died, vill be invested in your name in -- What do you call them things agin
Wot things
Them things as is always a-goin' up and down, in the city
Omnibuses
Nonsense
Oh! the funds
Ah
the funs; two hundred pounds o' the money is to be inwested for you, Samivel, in the funs; four and a half per cent. reduced counsels, Sammy
Wery kind o' the old lady to think o' me
and I'm wery much obliged to her
The rest will be inwested in my name
Somebody's a-tappin' at the door
Let 'em tap
Hush
don't take no notice on 'em, Sammy, it's vun o' the widders, p'raps
Oh, my young friend
here's a sorrowful affliction
For the man of wrath, too
it makes a vessel's heart bleed
Do you know, young man
whether she has left Emanuel anything
Who's he
The chapel
our chapel; our fold, Mr. Samuel
nor the dogs neither
Nothing for ME, Mr. Samuel
I think there's something
Consider, Mr. Samuel; no little token
Not so much as the vorth o' that 'ere old umberella o' yourn
Perhaps
perhaps she recommended me to the care of the man of wrath, Mr. Samuel
I think that's wery likely, from what he said
he wos a-speakin' about you, jist now
Was he, though
Ah! He's changed, I dare say. We might live very comfortably together now, Mr. Samuel, eh? I could take care of his property when you are away -- good care, you see
Sammy
put my hat on tight for me
There
send any vun o' them lazy shepherds here, and I'll pound him to a jelly first, and drownd him artervards! Sammy, help me in, and fill me a small glass of brandy. I'm out o' breath, my boy
My dear girl
it is no fault of yours. It was impossible to foresee that the old gentleman would be so strongly prepossessed against his son's marriage, you know. I am sure
he can have very little idea of the pleasure he denies himself
Oh, my dear Mr. Pickwick
what shall we do, if he continues to be angry with us
Why, wait patiently, my dear, until he thinks better of it
But, dear Mr. Pickwick, what is to become of Nathaniel if his father withdraws his assistance
In that case, my love
I will venture to prophesy that he will find some other friend who will not be backward in helping him to start in the world
Come, come
we will wait here a few days longer, and see whether he writes or takes any other notice of your husband's communication. If not, I have thought of half a dozen plans, any one of which would make you happy at once. There, my dear, there
This is a distressing predicament for these young people
I'll walk up to Perker's, and consult him about the matter
You're early, Mr. Pickwick
Ah, Mr. Lowten
Precious warm walking, isn't it
You appear to feel it so
I've come along, rather, I can tell you
It went the half hour as I came through the Polygon. I'm here before him, though, so I don't mind
There, you see, Mr. Pickwick
now I'm complete. I've got my office coat on, and my pad out, and let him come as soon as he likes. You haven't got a pinch of snuff about you, have you
No, I have not
I'm sorry for it
Never mind. I'll run out presently, and get a bottle of soda. Don't I look rather queer about the eyes, Mr. Pickwick
I'm glad of it
We were keeping it up pretty tolerably at the Stump last night, and I'm rather out of sorts this morning. Perker's been about that business of yours, by the bye
What business
Mrs. Bardell's costs
No, I don't mean that
About getting that customer that we paid the ten shillings in the pound to the bill-discounter for, on your account -- to get him out of the Fleet, you know -- about getting him to Demerara
Oh, Mr. Jingle
Yes. Well
Well, it's all arranged
The agent at Liverpool said he had been obliged to you many times when you were in business, and he would be glad to take him on your recommendation
That's well
I am delighted to hear it
But I say
what a soft chap that other is
Which other
Why, that servant, or friend, or whatever he is; you know, Trotter
Ah
I always thought him the reverse
Well, and so did I, from what little I saw of him
it only shows how one may be deceived. What do you think of his going to Demerara, too
What! And giving up what was offered him here
Treating Perker's offer of eighteen bob a week, and a rise if he behaved himself, like dirt
He said he must go along with the other one, and so they persuaded Perker to write again, and they've got him something on the same estate; not near so good, Perker says, as a convict would get in New South Wales, if he appeared at his trial in a new suit of clothes
Foolish fellow
Foolish fellow
Oh, it's worse than foolish; it's downright sneaking, you know
He says that he's the only friend he ever had, and he's attached to him, and all that. Friendship's a very good thing in its way -- we are all very friendly and comfortable at the Stump, for instance, over our grog, where every man pays for himself; but damn hurting yourself for anybody else, you know! No man should have more than two attachments -- the first, to number one, and the second to the ladies; that's what I say -- ha! ha
Hark
that's one of our vagabond friends -- Jingle himself, my dear Sir. Will you see him
What do you think
Yes, I think you had better. Here, you Sir, what's your name, walk in, will you
Well
don't you know that gentleman
Good reason to
Mr. Pickwick -- deepest obligations -- life preserver -- made a man of me -- you shall never repent it, Sir
I am happy to hear you say so
You look much better
Thanks to you, sir -- great change -- Majesty's Fleet -- unwholesome place -- very
When do they go to Liverpool
By the heavy coach from the city, Sir
Are your places taken
They are, sir
You have fully made up your mind to go
I have sir
With regard to such an outfit as was indispensable for Jingle
I have taken upon myself to make an arrangement for the deduction of a small sum from his quarterly salary, which, being made only for one year, and regularly remitted, will provide for that expense. I entirely disapprove of your doing anything for him, my dear sir, which is not dependent on his own exertions and good conduct
Certainly
Clear head -- man of the world -- quite right -- perfectly
By compounding with his creditor, releasing his clothes from the pawnbroker's, relieving him in prison, and paying for his passage
you have already lost upwards of fifty pounds
Not lost
Pay it all -- stick to business -- cash up -- every farthing. Yellow fever, perhaps -- can't help that -- if not
He means to say
that if he is not carried off by the fever, he will pay the money back again. If he lives, he will, Mr. Pickwick. I will see it done. I know he will, Sir
I could undertake to swear it
Well, well
you must be careful not to play any more desperate cricket matches, Mr. Jingle, or to renew your acquaintance with Sir Thomas Blazo, and I have little doubt of your preserving your health
You don't happen to know, do you, what has become of another friend of yours -- a more humble one, whom I saw at Rochester
Dismal Jemmy
Yes
Clever rascal -- queer fellow, hoaxing genius -- Job's brother
Job's brother
Well, now I look at him closely, there IS a likeness
We were always considered like each other, Sir
only I was really of a serious nature, and he never was. He emigrated to America, Sir, in consequence of being too much sought after here, to be comfortable; and has never been heard of since
That accounts for my not having received the "page from the romance of real life," which he promised me one morning when he appeared to be contemplating suicide on Rochester Bridge, I suppose
I need not inquire whether his dismal behaviour was natural or assumed
He could assume anything, Sir
You may consider yourself very fortunate in having escaped him so easily. On intimate terms he would have been even a more dangerous acquaintance than --' Job looked at Jingle, hesitated, and finally added, 'than -- than-myself even
A hopeful family yours, Mr. Trotter
Yes, Sir
Very much so
Well
I hope you are going to disgrace it. Deliver this letter to the agent when you reach Liverpool, and let me advise you, gentlemen, not to be too knowing in the West Indies. If you throw away this chance, you will both richly deserve to be hanged, as I sincerely trust you will be. And now you had better leave Mr. Pickwick and me alone, for we have other matters to talk over, and time is precious
A worthy couple
I hope they may become so
What do you think? Is there any chance of their permanent reformation
Of course there is a chance. I hope it may prove a good one. They are unquestionably penitent now; but then, you know, they have the recollection of very recent suffering fresh upon them. What they may become, when that fades away, is a problem that neither you nor I can solve. However, my dear Sir
your object is equally honourable, whatever the result is. Whether that species of benevolence which is so very cautious and long-sighted that it is seldom exercised at all, lest its owner should be imposed upon, and so wounded in his self-love, be real charity or a worldly counterfeit, I leave to wiser heads than mine to determine. But if those two fellows were to commit a burglary to-morrow, my opinion of this action would be equally high
Give him a week
Do you think he will come round
I think he will
If not, we must try the young lady's persuasion; and that is what anybody but you would have done at first
Come in
What's the matter
You're wanted, Sir
Who wants me
Who wants me? Can't you speak, Mr. Lowten
Why, sir
it's Dodson; and Fogg is with him
Bless my life
I appointed them to be here at half-past eleven, to settle that matter of yours, Pickwick. I gave them an undertaking on which they sent down your discharge; it's very awkward, my dear Sir; what will you do? Would you like to step into the next room
Very well, my dear Sir, very well
I can only say that if you expect either Dodson or Fogg to exhibit any symptom of shame or confusion at having to look you, or anybody else, in the face, you are the most sanguine man in your expectations that I ever met with. Show them in, Mr. Lowten
You have seen Mr. Pickwick, I believe
How do you do, Mr. Pickwick
Dear me
how do you do, Mr. Pickwick? I hope you are well, Sir. I thought I knew the face
There's no occasion for Mr. Pickwick to move, Mr. Perker
Mr. Pickwick is pretty well acquainted with these proceedings. There are no secrets between us, I think. He! he! he
Not many, I think
Ha! ha! ha
We shall make Mr. Pickwick pay for peeping
The amount of the taxed costs is one hundred and thirty-three, six, four, Mr. Perker
I don't think you are looking quite so stout as when I had the pleasure of seeing you last, Mr. Pickwick
Possibly not, Sir
I believe I am not, Sir. I have been persecuted and annoyed by scoundrels of late, Sir
True
I dare say you have been annoyed in the Fleet; there are some odd gentry there. Whereabouts were your apartments, Mr. Pickwick
My one room
was on the coffee-room flight
Oh, indeed
I believe that is a very pleasant part of the establishment
Very
Now, Mr. Dodson
I am at your service
Very good
I am quite ready
I am very happy
to have had the pleasure of making Mr. Pickwick's acquaintance. I hope you don't think quite so ill of us, Mr. Pickwick, as when we first had the pleasure of seeing you
I hope not
Mr. Pickwick now knows us better, I trust; whatever your opinion of gentlemen of our profession may be, I beg to assure you, sir, that I bear no ill-will or vindictive feeling towards you for the sentiments you thought proper to express in our office in Freeman's Court, Cornhill, on the occasion to which my partner has referred
Oh, no, no; nor I
Our conduct, Sir
will speak for itself, and justify itself, I hope, upon every occasion. We have been in the profession some years, Mr. Pickwick, and have been honoured with the confidence of many excellent clients. I wish you good- morning, Sir
Good-morning, Mr. Pickwick
Lowten
Open the door
Wait one instant
Perker, I WILL speak
My dear Sir, pray let the matter rest where it is
Mr. Pickwick, I beg
I will not be put down, Sir
Mr. Dodson, you have addressed some remarks to me
Some remarks to me
and your partner has tendered me his hand, and you have both assumed a tone of forgiveness and high-mindedness, which is an extent of impudence that I was not prepared for, even in you
What, sir
What, sir
Do you know that I have been the victim of your plots and conspiracies
Do you know that I am the man whom you have been imprisoning and robbing? Do you know that you were the attorneys for the plaintiff, in Bardell and Pickwick
Yes, sir, we do know it
Of course we know it, Sir
I see that you recollect it with satisfaction
Although I have long been anxious to tell you, in plain terms, what my opinion of you is, I should have let even this opportunity pass, in deference to my friend Perker's wishes, but for the unwarrantable tone you have assumed, and your insolent familiarity. I say insolent familiarity, sir
Take care, Sir
Let him assault you, Mr. Fogg; don't return it on any account
No, no, I won't return it
You are
you are a well-matched pair of mean, rascally, pettifogging robbers
Well
is that all
It is all summed up in that
they are mean, rascally, pettifogging robbers
There
My dear sirs, he has said all he has to say. Now pray go. Lowten, is that door open
There, there -- good-morning -- good-morning -- now pray, my dear sirs -- Mr. Lowten, the door
this way, my dear sirs -- now pray don't prolong this -- Dear me -- Mr. Lowten -- the door, sir -- why don't you attend
If there's law in England, sir
you shall smart for this
You are a couple of mean
Remember, sir, you pay dearly for this
Rascally, pettifogging robbers
Robbers
Robbers
Well, now
let me have a settlement with you
Of the same kind as the last
Not exactly
I only mean a pecuniary settlement. You have done me many acts of kindness that I can never repay, and have no wish to repay, for I prefer continuing the obligation
Dear me, what's that
I think it is a knock at the door
Dear me
we shall alarm the inn. Mr. Lowten, don't you hear a knock
I'll answer the door in one moment, Sir
It's quite dreadful
Make haste, Mr. Lowten
we shall have the panels beaten in
What's the matter
Where do you come from
What the devil do you knock in that way for
Which way
Why, like forty hackney-coachmen
Because master said, I wasn't to leave off knocking till they opened the door, for fear I should go to sleep
Well
what message have you brought
He's downstairs
Who
Master. He wants to know whether you're at home
That's your master in the carriage, I suppose
Pickwick
Your hand, my boy! Why have I never heard until the day before yesterday of your suffering yourself to be cooped up in jail? And why did you let him do it, Perker
I couldn't help it, my dear Sir
you know how obstinate he is
Of course I do; of course I do
I am heartily glad to see him, notwithstanding. I will not lose sight of him again, in a hurry
Well
Here are pretty goings on -- a pinch of your snuff, Perker, my boy -- never were such times, eh
What do you mean
Mean
Why, I think the girls are all running mad; that's no news, you'll say? Perhaps it's not; but it's true, for all that
You have not come up to London, of all places in the world, to tell us that, my dear Sir, have you
No, not altogether
though it was the main cause of my coming. How's Arabella
Very well
and will be delighted to see you, I am sure
Black-eyed little jilt
I had a great idea of marrying her myself, one of these odd days. But I am glad of it too, very glad
How did the intelligence reach you
Oh, it came to my girls, of course
Arabella wrote, the day before yesterday, to say she had made a stolen match without her husband's father's consent, and so you had gone down to get it when his refusing it couldn't prevent the match, and all the rest of it. I thought it a very good time to say something serious to my girls; so I said what a dreadful thing it was that children should marry without their parents' consent, and so forth; but, bless your hearts, I couldn't make the least impression upon them. They thought it such a much more dreadful thing that there should have been a wedding without bridesmaids, that I might as well have preached to Joe himself
But this is not the best of it, it seems. This is only half the love-making and plotting that have been going forward. We have been walking on mines for the last six months, and they're sprung at last
What do you mean
no other secret marriage, I hope
No, no
not so bad as that; no
What then
am I interested in it
Shall I answer that question, Perker
If you don't commit yourself by doing so, my dear Sir
Well then, you are
How
In what way
Really
you're such a fiery sort of a young fellow that I am almost afraid to tell you; but, however, if Perker will sit between us to prevent mischief, I'll venture
The fact is, that my daughter Bella -- Bella, who married young Trundle, you know
Yes, yes, we know
Don't alarm me at the very beginning. My daughter Bella -- Emily having gone to bed with a headache after she had read Arabella's letter to me -- sat herself down by my side the other evening, and began to talk over this marriage affair. "Well, pa," she says, "what do you think of it?" "Why, my dear," I said, "I suppose it's all very well; I hope it's for the best." I answered in this way because I was sitting before the fire at the time, drinking my grog rather thoughtfully, and I knew my throwing in an undecided word now and then, would induce her to continue talking. Both my girls are pictures of their dear mother, and as I grow old I like to sit with only them by me; for their voices and looks carry me back to the happiest period of my life, and make me, for the moment, as young as I used to be then, though not quite so light-hearted. "It's quite a marriage of affection, pa," said Bella, after a short silence. "Yes, my dear," said I, "but such marriages do not always turn out the happiest
I question that, mind
Very good
question anything you like when it's your turn to speak, but don't interrupt me
I beg your pardon
Granted
I am sorry to hear you express your opinion against marriages of affection, pa," said Bella, colouring a little. "I was wrong; I ought not to have said so, my dear, either," said I, patting her cheek as kindly as a rough old fellow like me could pat it, "for your mother's was one, and so was yours." "It's not that I meant, pa," said Bella. "The fact is, pa, I wanted to speak to you about Emily
What's the matter now
Nothing
Pray go on
I never could spin out a story
It must come out, sooner or later, and it'll save us all a great deal of time if it comes at once. The long and the short of it is, then, that Bella at last mustered up courage to tell me that Emily was very unhappy; that she and your young friend Snodgrass had been in constant correspondence and communication ever since last Christmas; that she had very dutifully made up her mind to run away with him, in laudable imitation of her old friend and school-fellow; but that having some compunctions of conscience on the subject, inasmuch as I had always been rather kindly disposed to both of them, they had thought it better in the first instance to pay me the compliment of asking whether I would have any objection to their being married in the usual matter-of- fact manner. There now, Mr. Pickwick, if you can make it convenient to reduce your eyes to their usual size again, and to let me hear what you think we ought to do, I shall feel rather obliged to you
Snodgrass!-since last Christmas
Since last Christmas
that's plain enough, and very bad spectacles we must have worn, not to have discovered it before
I don't understand it
I cannot really understand it
It's easy enough to understand it
If you had been a younger man, you would have been in the secret long ago; and besides
the truth is, that, knowing nothing of this matter, I have rather pressed Emily for four or five months past, to receive favourably (if she could; I would never attempt to force a girl's inclinations) the addresses of a young gentleman down in our neighbourhood. I have no doubt that, girl-like, to enhance her own value and increase the ardour of Mr. Snodgrass, she has represented this matter in very glowing colours, and that they have both arrived at the conclusion that they are a terribly- persecuted pair of unfortunates, and have no resource but clandestine matrimony, or charcoal. Now the question is, what's to be done
What have YOU done
I
I mean what did you do when your married daughter told you this
Oh, I made a fool of myself of course
Just so
That's very natural; but how
I went into a great passion and frightened my mother into a fit
That was judicious
and what else
I fretted and fumed all next day, and raised a great disturbance
At last I got tired of rendering myself unpleasant and making everybody miserable; so I hired a carriage at Muggleton, and, putting my own horses in it, came up to town, under pretence of bringing Emily to see Arabella
Miss Wardle is with you, then
To be sure she is
She is at Osborne's Hotel in the Adelphi at this moment, unless your enterprising friend has run away with her since I came out this morning
You are reconciled then
Not a bit of it
she has been crying and moping ever since, except last night, between tea and supper, when she made a great parade of writing a letter that I pretended to take no notice of
You want my advice in this matter, I suppose
I suppose so
Certainly
Well then
my advice is, that you both walk away together, or ride away, or get away by some means or other, for I'm tired of you, and just talk this matter over between you. If you have not settled it by the next time I see you, I'll tell you what to do
This is satisfactory
Pooh, pooh, my dear Sir
I know you both a great deal better than you know yourselves. You have settled it already, to all intents and purposes
You dine with me to-day
Can't promise, my dear Sir, can't promise
I'll look in, in the evening, at all events
I shall expect you at five
Now, Joe
Wretched creature, what do you want here
Missis
What do you want me for
you stupid creature
Master and Mr. Pickwick is a-going to dine here at five
Leave the room
No, no, no
Bella, dear, advise me
Joe
how do you do, Joe
Joe
you're a very good boy; I won't forget you, Joe
Joe
I'll owe you five, Joe
for old acquaintance sake, you know
He understands us, I see
He had better have something to eat, immediately
I am going to dine with you to-day, sir, if you have no objection
This way
There is such a jolly meat-pie
Sit down
Oh, my eye, how prime! I am SO hungry
Will you have some of this
A little, if you please
I say! How nice you look
Dear me, Joseph
what do you mean
What a nice young lady Miss Emily is
I knows a nicerer
Indeed
Yes, indeed
What's her name
What's yours
Mary
So's hers
You're her
You mustn't talk to me in that way
you don't mean it
Don't I, though
I say
Well
Are you going to come here regular
No
I'm going away again to-night. Why
Oh
how we should have enjoyed ourselves at meals, if you had been
I might come here sometimes, perhaps, to see you
if you would do me a favour
Don't you understand me
No
The ladies want you not to say anything to the old gentleman about the young gentleman having been upstairs; and I want you too
Of course I ain't a-going to
You see
Mr. Snodgrass is very fond of Miss Emily, and Miss Emily's very fond of him, and if you were to tell about it, the old gentleman would carry you all away miles into the country, where you'd see nobody
No, no, I won't tell
That's a dear
Now it's time I went upstairs, and got my lady ready for dinner
Don't go yet
I must
Good-bye, for the present
Very lucky I had the presence of mind to avoid them
this opens into the same passage, and I can walk quietly and comfortably away
Let us have some of your best wine to-day, waiter
You shall have some of the very best, sir
Let the ladies know we have come in
Yes, Sir
Waiter
We won't wait a minute for Perker
he is always exact. He will be here, in time, if he means to come; and if he does not, it's of no use waiting. Ha! Arabella
My sister
Oh, Ben, dear, how you do smell of tobacco
Do I
Do I, Bella? Well, perhaps I do
But I am delighted to see you
Bless you, Bella
There
don't take hold of me again, Ben, dear, because you tumble me so
is nothing to be said to me
A great deal
You are a hard- hearted, unfeeling, cruel monster
You are a little rebel
and I am afraid I shall be obliged to forbid you the house. People like you, who get married in spite of everybody, ought not to be let loose on society. But come
here's the dinner; you shall sit by me. Joe; why, damn the boy, he's awake
Joe
is my snuff-box on the sofa
No, sir
Oh, I recollect; I left it on my dressing-table this morning
Run into the next room and fetch it
What's the matter with the boy
Nothen's the matter with me
Have you been seeing any spirits
Or taking any
I think you're right
He is intoxicated, I'm sure
Just keep your eye upon him for a few minutes
We shall soon find out whether he is or not
Joe
Yes, sir
What did you go away for
Oh
you don't know, eh? Take this cheese to Mr. Pickwick
Dear me
what a very -- Eh
What's the matter
This is such an extremely singular lad
It seems an odd thing to say, but upon my word I am afraid that, at times, he is a little deranged
Oh! Mr. Pickwick, pray don't say so
I am not certain, of course
but his manner to me this moment really was very alarming. Oh
I beg your pardon, ladies, but at that moment he ran some sharp instrument into my leg. Really, he is not safe
He's drunk
Ring the bell! Call the waiters! He's drunk
I ain't
I ain't drunk
Then you're mad; that's worse. Call the waiters
I ain't mad; I'm sensible
Then, what the devil did you run sharp instruments into Mr. Pickwick's legs for
He wouldn't look at me
I wanted to speak to him
What did you want to say
What did you want to say
Stop
allow me. What did you wish to communicate to me, my poor boy
I want to whisper to you
You want to bite his ear off, I suppose
Don't come near him; he's vicious; ring the bell, and let him be taken downstairs
Hollo
What's this
I have been concealed in the next room, sir, since you returned
Emily, my girl
I detest meanness and deceit; this is unjustifiable and indelicate in the highest degree. I don't deserve this at your hands, Emily, indeed
Dear papa
Arabella knows -- everybody here knows -- Joe knows -- that I was no party to this concealment. Augustus, for Heaven's sake, explain it
Stop
Why, in the name of all that's
Inflammable
Well -- that's inflammable
couldn't you say all this to me in the first instance
Or confide in me
Dear, dear
what is the use of asking all that now, especially when you know you had set your covetous old heart on a richer son-in-law, and are so wild and fierce besides, that everybody is afraid of you, except me? Shake hands with him, and order him some dinner, for goodness gracious' sake, for he looks half starved; and pray have your wine up at once, for you'll not be tolerable until you have taken two bottles at least
She is right on one point at all events
Ring for the wine
Samivel
I've found it, Sammy. I thought it wos there
Thought wot wos there
Your mother-in-law's vill, Sammy
In wirtue o' vich, them arrangements is to be made as I told you on, last night, respectin' the funs
Wot, didn't she tell you were it wos
Not a bit on it, Sammy
We wos a adjestin' our little differences, and I wos a-cheerin' her spirits and bearin' her up, so that I forgot to ask anythin' about it. I don't know as I should ha' done it, indeed, if I had remembered it
for it's a rum sort o' thing, Sammy, to go a-hankerin' arter anybody's property, ven you're assistin' 'em in illness. It's like helping an outside passenger up, ven he's been pitched off a coach, and puttin' your hand in his pocket, vile you ask him, vith a sigh, how he finds his-self, Sammy
This here is the dockyment, Sammy
cept on the temperance nights, ven they just laid a foundation o' tea to put the spirits atop on
What does it say
Jist vot I told you, my boy
Two hundred pound vurth o' reduced counsels to my son-in-law, Samivel, and all the rest o' my property, of ev'ry kind and description votsoever, to my husband, Mr. Tony Veller, who I appint as my sole eggzekiter
That's all, is it
That's all
Wot are you a-doin' on, you lunatic
You're a nice eggzekiter, you are
Vy not
Vy not
You don't mean that
Then I'll tell you wot it is
this is a case for that 'ere confidential pal o' the Chancellorship's. Pell must look into this, Sammy. He's the man for a difficult question at law. Ve'll have this here brought afore the Solvent Court, directly, Samivel
I never did see such a addle-headed old creetur
Old Baileys, and Solvent Courts, and alleybis, and ev'ry species o' gammon alvays a-runnin' through his brain. You'd better get your out o' door clothes on, and come to town about this bisness, than stand a-preachin' there about wot you don't understand nothin' on
Wery good, Sammy
I'm quite agreeable to anythin' as vill hexpedite business, Sammy. But mind this here, my boy, nobody but Pell -- nobody but Pell as a legal adwiser
I don't want anybody else
Vait a minit, Sammy
Vait a minit' Sammy; ven you grow as old as your father, you von't get into your veskit quite as easy as you do now, my boy
If I couldn't get into it easier than that, I'm blessed if I'd vear vun at all
You think so now
but you'll find that as you get vider, you'll get viser. Vidth and visdom, Sammy, alvays grows together
As four heads is better than two, Sammy
added Mr. Weller, in a half-whisper --'the wery best judges of a horse, you ever know'd
And of a lawyer too
Gentlemen
my service to you all. I don't say it to flatter you, gentlemen, but there are not five other men in the world, that I'd have come out of that court for, to-day
So busy, eh
Busy
I'm completely sewn up, as my friend the late Lord Chancellor many a time used to say to me, gentlemen, when he came out from hearing appeals in the House of Lords. Poor fellow; he was very susceptible to fatigue; he used to feel those appeals uncommonly. I actually thought more than once that he'd have sunk under 'em; I did, indeed
I don't think he ever quite recovered them
in fact I'm sure he never did. "Pell," he used to say to me many a time, "how the blazes you can stand the head-work you do, is a mystery to me."--"Well," I used to answer, "I hardly know how I do it, upon my life."--"Pell," he'd add, sighing, and looking at me with a little envy -- friendly envy, you know, gentlemen, mere friendly envy; I never minded it --"Pell, you're a wonder; a wonder." Ah! you'd have liked him very much if you had known him, gentlemen. Bring me three-penn'orth of rum, my dear
However
a professional man has no right to think of his private friendships when his legal assistance is wanted. By the bye, gentlemen, since I saw you here before, we have had to weep over a very melancholy occurrence
I saw it in the ADVERTISER, Mr. Weller
Bless my soul, not more than fifty-two! Dear me -- only think
I have heard it remarked that she was a very fine woman, Mr. Weller
Yes, sir, she wos
She wos a wery fine 'ooman, sir, ven I first know'd her. She wos a widder, sir, at that time
Now, it's curious
Mrs. Pell was a widow
That's very extraordinary
Well, it is a curious coincidence
Not at all
More widders is married than single wimin
Very good, very good
you're quite right, Mr. Weller. Mrs. Pell was a very elegant and accomplished woman; her manners were the theme of universal admiration in our neighbourhood. I was proud to see that woman dance; there was something so firm and dignified, and yet natural, in her motion. Her cutting, gentlemen, was simplicity itself. Ah! well, well! Excuse my asking the question, Mr. Samuel
was your mother-in-law tall
Not wery
Mrs. Pell was a tall figure
a splendid woman, with a noble shape, and a nose, gentlemen, formed to command and be majestic. She was very much attached to me -- very much -- highly connected, too. Her mother's brother, gentlemen, failed for eight hundred pounds, as a law stationer
Vell
What is the business upon which -- um? Either of these gentlemen wish to go through the court? We require an arrest; a friendly arrest will do, you know; we are all friends here, I suppose
Give me the dockyment, Sammy
Wot we rekvire, sir, is a probe o' this here
Probate, my dear Sir, probate
Well, sir
probe and probe it, is wery much the same; if you don't understand wot I mean, sir, I des-say I can find them as does
No offence, I hope, Mr. Weller
You are the executor, I see
I am, sir
These other gentlemen, I presume, are legatees, are they
Sammy is a leg-at-ease
Oh
very good. I have no objections, I'm sure. I shall want a matter of five pound of you before I begin, ha! ha! ha
A quarter to two
If we are with Mr. Flasher at a quarter past, we shall just hit the best time
And a little bit o' cold beef
Or a oyster
Hear, hear
to congratulate Mr. Weller, on his coming into possession of his property, eh? Ha! ha
answered Mr. Weller. 'Sammy, pull the bell
Mr. Pell, Sir
Mr. Pell, Sir, it wos my intention to have proposed the funs on this occasion, but Samivel has vispered to me
Hear
Has vispered to me
that it vould be better to dewote the liquor to vishin' you success and prosperity, and thankin' you for the manner in which you've brought this here business through. Here's your health, sir
Hold hard there
Well, gentlemen
all I can say is, that such marks of confidence must be very gratifying to a professional man. I don't wish to say anything that might appear egotistical, gentlemen, but I'm very glad, for your own sakes, that you came to me; that's all. If you had gone to any low member of the profession, it's my firm conviction, and I assure you of it as a fact, that you would have found yourselves in Queer Street before this. I could have wished my noble friend had been alive to have seen my management of this case. I don't say it out of pride, but I think -- However, gentlemen, I won't trouble you with that. I'm generally to be found here, gentlemen, but if I'm not here, or over the way, that's my address. You'll find my terms very cheap and reasonable, and no man attends more to his clients than I do, and I hope I know a little of my profession besides. If you have any opportunity of recommending me to any of your friends, gentlemen, I shall be very much obliged to you, and so will they too, when they come to know me. Your healths, gentlemen
Come in
Good-morning, Sir
We want to make a little transfer, if you please
Oh, just come in, will you
Sit down a minute; I'll attend to you directly
Thank you, Sir
there's no hurry. Take a chair, Mr. Weller
Well, I'll bet you half a dozen of claret on it; come
I never bet half a dozen
I'll take a dozen
Done, Simmery, done
P. P., mind
Of course
I see there's a notice up this morning about Boffer
Poor devil, he's expelled the house
I'll bet you ten guineas to five, he cuts his throat
Done
Stop! I bar
Perhaps he may hang himself
Very good
I've no objection to take you that way. Say, makes away with himself
Kills himself, in fact
Just so
Flasher -- ten guineas to five, Boffer kills himself." Within what time shall we say
A fortnight
Con-found it, no
Say a week
Split the difference
Make it ten days
Well; ten days
I'm very sorry he has failed
Capital dinners he gave
Fine port he had too
We are going to send our butler to the sale to-morrow, to pick up some of that sixty-four
The devil you are
My man's going too. Five guineas my man outbids your man
Done
Wot place is this here
Counsel's Office
Wot are them gen'l'men a-settin' behind the counters
replied Mr. Weller. 'Ain't they the reduced counsels, Samivel
Wy, you don't suppose the reduced counsels is alive, do you
How should I know
I thought they looked wery like it. Wot are they, then
Clerks
Wot are they all a-eatin' ham sangwidges for
it's a part o' the system; they're alvays a-doin' it here, all day long
W
Wot's that for, Sir
The first letter of the name of the deceased
I say
My son
There
Vith the bills for the lease, and that, there's eleven hundred and eighty pound here. Now, Samivel, my boy, turn the horses' heads to the George and Wulter
Oh, if you please, Sir, Samuel is downstairs, and he says may his father see you
Surely
Thank you, Sir
Sam has not been here long, has he
Oh, no, Sir
He has only just come home. He is not going to ask you for any more leave, Sir, he says
Tell them they can come up at once, by all means
Well, well
it is the best way in which I could reward him for his attachment and fidelity; let it be so, in Heaven's name. It is the fate of a lonely old man, that those about him should form new and different attachments and leave him. I have no right to expect that it should be otherwise with me. No, no
it would be selfish and ungrateful. I ought to be happy to have an opportunity of providing for him so well. I am. Of course I am
Glad to see you back again, Sam
How do you do, Mr. Weller
Wery hearty, thank'ee, sir
hope I see you well, sir
Quite, I thank you
I wanted to have a little bit o' conwersation with you, sir
if you could spare me five minits or so, sir
Certainly
Sam, give your father a chair
Thank'ee, Samivel, I've got a cheer here
uncommon fine day it's been, sir
Remarkably so, indeed
Very seasonable
Seasonablest veather I ever see, sir
I never see sich a aggrawatin' boy as you are, Samivel
never in all my born days
What is he doing, Mr. Weller
He von't begin, sir
he knows I ain't ekal to ex-pressin' myself ven there's anythin' partickler to be done, and yet he'll stand and see me a-settin' here taking up your walable time, and makin' a reg'lar spectacle o' myself, rayther than help me out vith a syllable. It ain't filial conduct, Samivel
wery far from it
You said you'd speak
You might ha' seen I warn't able to start
I'm on the wrong side of the road, and backin' into the palin's, and all manner of unpleasantness, and yet you von't put out a hand to help me. I'm ashamed on you, Samivel
The fact is, Sir
Wery good, Samivel, wery good
I didn't mean to speak harsh to you, Sammy. Wery good. That's the vay to begin. Come to the pint at once. Wery good indeed, Samivel
You may sit down, Sam
Reduced counsels
It don't much matter vether it's reduced counsels, or wot not
five hundred and thirty pounds is the sum, ain't it
All right, Samivel
To vich sum, he has added for the house and bisness
Lease, good-vill, stock, and fixters
As much as makes it
altogether, eleven hundred and eighty pound
Indeed
I am delighted to hear it. I congratulate you, Mr. Weller, on having done so well
Vait a minit, Sir
Get on, Samivel
This here money
he's anxious to put someveres, vere he knows it'll be safe, and I'm wery anxious too, for if he keeps it, he'll go a-lendin' it to somebody, or inwestin' property in horses, or droppin' his pocket-book down an airy, or makin' a Egyptian mummy of his-self in some vay or another
Wery good, Samivel
Wery good
For vich reasons
for vich reasons, he's drawn it out to-day, and come here vith me to say, leastvays to offer, or in other vords
To say this here
ud be a temptation to the insides. If you'll take care on it for me, sir, I shall be wery much obliged to you. P'raps
p'raps it'll go a little vay towards the expenses o' that 'ere conwiction. All I say is, just you keep it till I ask you for it again
Stop him, Sam
Overtake him; bring him back instantly! Mr. Weller -- here -- come back
My good friend
your honest confidence overpowers me
I don't see no occasion for nothin' o' the kind, Sir
I assure you, my good friend, I have more money than I can ever need; far more than a man at my age can ever live to spend
No man knows how much he can spend, till he tries
Perhaps not
but as I have no intention of trying any such experiments, I am not likely to come to want. I must beg you to take this back, Mr. Weller
Wery well
Mark my vords, Sammy, I'll do somethin' desperate vith this here property; somethin' desperate
You'd better not
I'll keep a pike
Wot
A pike
I'll keep a pike. Say good-bye to your father, Samivel. I dewote the remainder of my days to a pike
Well, well, Mr. Weller, I will keep your money. I can do more good with it, perhaps, than you can
Just the wery thing, to be sure
o' course you can, sir
Say no more about it
I am heartily obliged to you, my good friend. Now sit down again. I want to ask your advice
Wait outside a few minutes, Sam, will you
You are not an advocate for matrimony, I think, Mr. Weller
Did you happen to see a young girl downstairs when you came in just now with your son
Yes. I see a young gal
What did you think of her, now? Candidly, Mr. Weller, what did you think of her
I thought she wos wery plump, and vell made
So she is
so she is. What did you think of her manners, from what you saw of her
Wery pleasant
Wery pleasant and comformable
I take a great interest in her, Mr. Weller
I mean an interest in her doing well
a desire that she may be comfortable and prosperous. You understand
Wery clearly
That young person
is attached to your son
To Samivel Veller
Yes
It's nat'ral
How do you mean
Wery careful that he don't say nothin' to her
Wery careful that he ain't led avay, in a innocent moment, to say anythin' as may lead to a conwiction for breach. You're never safe vith 'em, Mr. Pickwick, ven they vunce has designs on you; there's no knowin' vere to have 'em; and vile you're a-considering of it, they have you. I wos married fust, that vay myself, Sir, and Sammy wos the consekens o' the manoover
You give me no great encouragement to conclude what I have to say
but I had better do so at once. This young person is not only attached to your son, Mr. Weller, but your son is attached to her
Vell
this here's a pretty sort o' thing to come to a father's ears, this is
I have observed them on several occasions
and entertain no doubt at all about it. Supposing I were desirous of establishing them comfortably as man and wife in some little business or situation, where they might hope to obtain a decent living, what should you think of it, Mr. Weller
Sam
your father and I have been having some conversation about you
About you, Samivel
I am not so blind, Sam, as not to have seen, a long time since, that you entertain something more than a friendly feeling towards Mrs. Winkle's maid
You hear this, Samivel
I hope, Sir
I hope there's no harm in a young man takin' notice of a young 'ooman as is undeniably good-looking and well-conducted
Certainly not
Not by no means
So far from thinking there is anything wrong in conduct so natural
it is my wish to assist and promote your wishes in this respect. With this view, I have had a little conversation with your father; and finding that he is of my opinion
The lady not bein' a widder
The lady not being a widow
I wish to free you from the restraint which your present position imposes upon you, and to mark my sense of your fidelity and many excellent qualities, by enabling you to marry this girl at once, and to earn an independent livelihood for yourself and family. I shall be proud, Sam
proud and happy to make your future prospects in life my grateful and peculiar care
I'm very much obliged to you for your goodness, Sir, as is only like yourself; but it can't be done
Can't be done
Samivel
I say it can't be done
Wot's to become of you, Sir
My good fellow
the recent changes among my friends will alter my mode of life in future, entirely; besides, I am growing older, and want repose and quiet. My rambles, Sam, are over
How do I know that 'ere, sir
ud become on you vithout me? It can't be done, Sir, it can't be done
Wery good, Samivel, there's a good deal in that
I speak after long deliberation, Sam, and with the certainty that I shall keep my word
New scenes have closed upon me; my rambles are at an end
Wery good
My good fellow
you are bound to consider the young woman also
I do consider the young 'ooman, Sir
I have considered the young 'ooman. I've spoke to her. I've told her how I'm sitivated; she's ready to vait till I'm ready, and I believe she vill. If she don't, she's not the young 'ooman I take her for, and I give her up vith readiness. You've know'd me afore, Sir. My mind's made up, and nothin' can ever alter it
Is she alone
I believe she is, Sir
I can call her own maid, Sir, if you
No, I don't want her
Show me to her room without announcing me
Eh, Sir
Are you deaf
No, sir
Then listen, if you please. Can you hear me now
Yes, Sir
That's well. Show me to Mrs. Winkle's room, without announcing me
Really, sir
I don't know, sir, whether
Ah! you'll do it, I see
You had better do it at once. It will save time
This is the room, is it
You may go
Come in
Um, a pretty voice, at any rate
but that's nothing
Pray don't rise, ma'am
Mrs. Winkle, I believe
Mrs. Nathaniel Winkle, who married the son of the old man at Birmingham
I surprise you, I see, ma'am
Rather, I confess
I'll take a chair, if you'll allow me, ma'am
You don't know me, ma'am
No, sir
No
I don't know how you should. You know my name, though, ma'am
Do I
May I ask what it is
Presently, ma'am, presently
You have been recently married, ma'am
I have
Without having represented to your husband the propriety of first consulting his father, on whom he is dependent, I think
Without an endeavour, even, to ascertain, by some indirect appeal, what were the old man's sentiments on a point in which he would naturally feel much interested
I cannot deny it, Sir
And without having sufficient property of your own to afford your husband any permanent assistance in exchange for the worldly advantages which you knew he would have gained if he had married agreeably to his father's wishes
This is what boys and girls call disinterested affection, till they have boys and girls of their own, and then they see it in a rougher and very different light
It was wrong
very wrong. It was romantic, unbusinesslike, foolish
It was my fault; all my fault, Sir
Nonsense
it was not your fault that he fell in love with you, I suppose? Yes it was, though
It was your fault. He couldn't help it
Where's your husband
I expect him every instant, sir
I persuaded him to take a walk this morning. He is very low and wretched at not having heard from his father
Low, is he
Serve him right
He feels it on my account, I am afraid
and indeed, Sir, I feel it deeply on his. I have been the sole means of bringing him to his present condition
Don't mind it on his account, my dear
It serves him right. I am glad of it -- actually glad of it, as far as he is concerned
Father
Yes, sir
Well, Sir, what have you got to say to me
You are ashamed of yourself, I hope, Sir
Are you ashamed of yourself, Sir, or are you not
No, Sir
I am not ashamed of myself, or of my wife either
Upon my word
I am very sorry to have done anything which has lessened your affection for me, Sir
but I will say, at the same time, that I have no reason to be ashamed of having this lady for my wife, nor you of having her for a daughter
Give me your hand, Nat
Kiss me, my love. You are a very charming little daughter-in-law after all
Mr. Pickwick, I thank you most heartily for all your kindness to my son
I am a hasty fellow, and when I saw you last, I was vexed and taken by surprise. I have judged for myself now, and am more than satisfied. Shall I make any more apologies, Mr. Pickwick
Not one
You have done the only thing wanting to complete my happiness
I say
what a pretty girl Mary is, isn't she? I am SO fond of her, I am
We are all anxious to know
what we have done to offend you, and to induce you to desert us and devote yourself to these solitary walks
Are you
It is singular enough that I had intended to volunteer a full explanation this very day; so, if you will give me another glass of wine, I will satisfy your curiosity
All the changes that have taken place among us
I mean the marriage that HAS taken place, and the marriage that WILL take place, with the changes they involve, rendered it necessary for me to think, soberly and at once, upon my future plans. I determined on retiring to some quiet, pretty neighbourhood in the vicinity of London; I saw a house which exactly suited my fancy; I have taken it and furnished it. It is fully prepared for my reception, and I intend entering upon it at once, trusting that I may yet live to spend many quiet years in peaceful retirement, cheered through life by the society of my friends, and followed in death by their affectionate remembrance
The house I have taken
is at Dulwich. It has a large garden, and is situated in one of the most pleasant spots near London. It has been fitted up with every attention to substantial comfort; perhaps to a little elegance besides; but of that you shall judge for yourselves. Sam accompanies me there. I have engaged, on Perker's representation, a housekeeper -- a very old one -- and such other servants as she thinks I shall require. I propose to consecrate this little retreat, by having a ceremony in which I take a great interest, performed there. I wish, if my friend Wardle entertains no objection, that his daughter should be married from my new house, on the day I take possession of it. The happiness of young people
has ever been the chief pleasure of my life. It will warm my heart to witness the happiness of those friends who are dearest to me, beneath my own roof
I have communicated, both personally and by letter, with the club
I shall never regret
I shall never regret having devoted the greater part of two years to mixing with different varieties and shades of human character, frivolous as my pursuit of novelty may have appeared to many. Nearly the whole of my previous life having been devoted to business and the pursuit of wealth, numerous scenes of which I had no previous conception have dawned upon me -- I hope to the enlargement of my mind, and the improvement of my understanding. If I have done but little good, I trust I have done less harm, and that none of my adventures will be other than a source of amusing and pleasant recollection to me in the decline of life. God bless you all
</text>
