<text>
the Captain
in consequence of the failure of his ammunition
Wo-ho! so-ho-then
Wo-ho
So, then! One more pull and you're at the top and be damned to you, for I have had trouble enough to get you to it!-- Joe
Halloa
What o'clock do you make it, Joe
Ten minutes, good, past eleven
My blood
and not atop of Shooter's yet! Tst! Yah! Get on with you
Tst! Joe
What do you say, Tom
I say a horse at a canter coming up, Joe
_I_ say a horse at a gallop, Tom
Gentlemen! In the king's name, all of you
So-ho
Yo there! Stand! I shall fire
Is that the Dover mail
Never you mind what it is
What are you
_Is_ that the Dover mail
Why do you want to know
I want a passenger, if it is
What passenger
Mr. Jarvis Lorry
Keep where you are
because, if I should make a mistake, it could never be set right in your lifetime. Gentleman of the name of Lorry answer straight
What is the matter
Who wants me? Is it Jerry
I don't like Jerry's voice, if it is Jerry
He's hoarser than suits me, is Jerry
Yes, Mr. Lorry
What is the matter
A despatch sent after you from over yonder. T. and Co
I know this messenger, guard
He may come close; there's nothing wrong
I hope there ain't, but I can't make so 'Nation sure of that
Hallo you
Well! And hallo you
Come on at a footpace! d'ye mind me? And if you've got holsters to that saddle o' yourn, don't let me see your hand go nigh 'em. For I'm a devil at a quick mistake, and when I make one it takes the form of Lead. So now let's look at you
Guard
Sir
There is nothing to apprehend. I belong to Tellson's Bank. You must know Tellson's Bank in London. I am going to Paris on business. A crown to drink. I may read this
If so be as you're quick, sir
Wait at Dover for Mam'selle.' It's not long, you see, guard. Jerry, say that my answer was, RECALLED TO LIFE
That's a Blazing strange answer, too
Take that message back, and they will know that I received this, as well as if I wrote. Make the best of your way. Good night
Tom
Hallo, Joe
Did you hear the message
I did, Joe
What did you make of it, Tom
Nothing at all, Joe
That's a coincidence, too
for I made the same of it myself
After that there gallop from Temple Bar, old lady, I won't trust your fore-legs till I get you on the level
Recalled to life.' That's a Blazing strange message. Much of that wouldn't do for you, Jerry! I say, Jerry! You'd be in a Blazing bad way, if recalling to life was to come into fashion, Jerry
No, Jerry, no
It wouldn't do for you, Jerry. Jerry, you honest tradesman, it wouldn't suit _your_ line of business! Recalled --! Bust me if I don't think he'd been a drinking
Buried how long
Almost eighteen years
You had abandoned all hope of being dug out
Long ago
You know that you are recalled to life
They tell me so
I hope you care to live
I can't say
Shall I show her to you? Will you come and see her
Wait! It would kill me if I saw her too soon
Take me to her
I don't know her. I don't understand
Buried how long
Almost eighteen years
I hope you care to live
I can't say
Buried how long
Almost eighteen years
You had abandoned all hope of being dug out
Long ago
Eighteen years
Gracious Creator of day! To be buried alive for eighteen years
There will be a packet to Calais, tomorrow, drawer
Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the wind sets tolerable fair. The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed, sir
I shall not go to bed till night; but I want a bedroom, and a barber
And then breakfast, sir? Yes, sir. That way, sir, if you please. Show Concord! Gentleman's valise and hot water to Concord. Pull off gentleman's boots in Concord. (You will find a fine sea-coal fire, sir.) Fetch barber to Concord. Stir about there, now, for Concord
I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who may come here at any time to-day. She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask for a gentleman from Tellson's Bank. Please to let me know
Yes, sir. Tellson's Bank in London, sir
Yes
Yes, sir. We have oftentimes the honour to entertain your gentlemen in their travelling backwards and forwards betwixt London and Paris, sir. A vast deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and Company's House
Yes. We are quite a French House, as well as an English one
Yes, sir. Not much in the habit of such travelling yourself, I think, sir
Not of late years. It is fifteen years since we -- since I -- came last from France
Indeed, sir? That was before my time here, sir. Before our people's time here, sir. The George was in other hands at that time, sir
I believe so
But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, that a House like Tellson and Company was flourishing, a matter of fifty, not to speak of fifteen years ago
You might treble that, and say a hundred and fifty, yet not be far from the truth
Indeed, sir
This is Mam'selle
So soon
Pray take a seat, sir
I kiss your hand, miss
I received a letter from the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me that some intelligence -- or discovery
The word is not material, miss; either word will do
respecting the small property of my poor father, whom I never saw -- so long dead
rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris, there to communicate with a gentleman of the Bank, so good as to be despatched to Paris for the purpose
Myself
As I was prepared to hear, sir
I replied to the Bank, sir, that as it was considered necessary, by those who know, and who are so kind as to advise me, that I should go to France, and that as I am an orphan and have no friend who could go with me, I should esteem it highly if I might be permitted to place myself, during the journey, under that worthy gentleman's protection. The gentleman had left London, but I think a messenger was sent after him to beg the favour of his waiting for me here
I was happy
to be entrusted with the charge. I shall be more happy to execute it
Sir, I thank you indeed. I thank you very gratefully. It was told me by the Bank that the gentleman would explain to me the details of the business, and that I must prepare myself to find them of a surprising nature. I have done my best to prepare myself, and I naturally have a strong and eager interest to know what they are
Naturally
Yes -- I
It is very difficult to begin
Are you quite a stranger to me, sir
Am I not
In your adopted country, I presume, I cannot do better than address you as a young English lady, Miss Manette
If you please, sir
Miss Manette, I am a man of business. I have a business charge to acquit myself of. In your reception of it, don't heed me any more than if I was a speaking machine -- truly, I am not much else. I will, with your leave, relate to you, miss, the story of one of our customers
Story
Yes, customers; in the banking business we usually call our connection our customers. He was a French gentleman; a scientific gentleman; a man of great acquirements -- a Doctor
Not of Beauvais
Why, yes, of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the gentleman was of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the gentleman was of repute in Paris. I had the honour of knowing him there. Our relations were business relations, but confidential. I was at that time in our French House, and had been -- oh! twenty years
At that time -- I may ask, at what time, sir
I speak, miss, of twenty years ago. He married -- an English lady -- and I was one of the trustees. His affairs, like the affairs of many other French gentlemen and French families, were entirely in Tellson's hands. In a similar way I am, or I have been, trustee of one kind or other for scores of our customers. These are mere business relations, miss; there is no friendship in them, no particular interest, nothing like sentiment. I have passed from one to another, in the course of my business life, just as I pass from one of our customers to another in the course of my business day; in short, I have no feelings; I am a mere machine. To go on
But this is my father's story, sir; and I begin to think
that when I was left an orphan through my mother's surviving my father only two years, it was you who brought me to England. I am almost sure it was you
Miss Manette, it _was_ I. And you will see how truly I spoke of myself just now, in saying I had no feelings, and that all the relations I hold with my fellow-creatures are mere business relations, when you reflect that I have never seen you since. No; you have been the ward of Tellson's House since, and I have been busy with the other business of Tellson's House since. Feelings! I have no time for them, no chance of them. I pass my whole life, miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Mangle
So far, miss (as you have remarked), this is the story of your regretted father. Now comes the difference. If your father had not died when he did -- Don't be frightened! How you start
Pray
pray control your agitation -- a matter of business. As I was saying
As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette had not died; if he had suddenly and silently disappeared; if he had been spirited away; if it had not been difficult to guess to what dreadful place, though no art could trace him; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest people afraid to speak of in a whisper, across the water there; for instance, the privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment of any one to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time; if his wife had implored the king, the queen, the court, the clergy, for any tidings of him, and all quite in vain;-- then the history of your father would have been the history of this unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais
I entreat you to tell me more, sir
I will. I am going to. You can bear it
I can bear anything but the uncertainty you leave me in at this moment
You speak collectedly, and you -- _are_ collected. That's good
A matter of business. Regard it as a matter of business -- business that must be done. Now if this doctor's wife, though a lady of great courage and spirit, had suffered so intensely from this cause before her little child was born
The little child was a daughter, sir
A daughter. A-a-matter of business -- don't be distressed. Miss, if the poor lady had suffered so intensely before her little child was born, that she came to the determination of sparing the poor child the inheritance of any part of the agony she had known the pains of, by rearing her in the belief that her father was dead -- No, don't kneel! In Heaven's name why should you kneel to me
For the truth. O dear, good, compassionate sir, for the truth
A -- a matter of business. You confuse me, and how can I transact business if I am confused? Let us be clear-headed. If you could kindly mention now, for instance, what nine times ninepence are, or how many shillings in twenty guineas, it would be so encouraging. I should be so much more at my ease about your state of mind
That's right, that's right. Courage! Business! You have business before you; useful business. Miss Manette, your mother took this course with you. And when she died -- I believe broken-hearted -- having never slackened her unavailing search for your father, she left you, at two years old, to grow to be blooming, beautiful, and happy, without the dark cloud upon you of living in uncertainty whether your father soon wore his heart out in prison, or wasted there through many lingering years
You know that your parents had no great possession, and that what they had was secured to your mother and to you. There has been no new discovery, of money, or of any other property; but
But he has been -- been found. He is alive. Greatly changed, it is too probable; almost a wreck, it is possible; though we will hope the best. Still, alive. Your father has been taken to the house of an old servant in Paris, and we are going there: I, to identify him if I can: you, to restore him to life, love, duty, rest, comfort
I am going to see his Ghost! It will be his Ghost -- not him
There, there, there! See now, see now! The best and the worst are known to you, now. You are well on your way to the poor wronged gentleman, and, with a fair sea voyage, and a fair land journey, you will be soon at his dear side
I have been free, I have been happy, yet his Ghost has never haunted me
Only one thing more
he has been found under another name; his own, long forgotten or long concealed. It would be worse than useless now to inquire which; worse than useless to seek to know whether he has been for years overlooked, or always designedly held prisoner. It would be worse than useless now to make any inquiries, because it would be dangerous. Better not to mention the subject, anywhere or in any way, and to remove him -- for a while at all events -- out of France. Even I, safe as an Englishman, and even Tellson's, important as they are to French credit, avoid all naming of the matter. I carry about me, not a scrap of writing openly referring to it. This is a secret service altogether. My credentials, entries, and memoranda, are all comprehended in the one line, &bquo;Recalled to Life;' which may mean anything. But what is the matter! She doesn't notice a word! Miss Manette
I really think this must be a man
Why, look at you all
Why don't you go and fetch things, instead of standing there staring at me? I am not so much to look at, am I? Why don't you go and fetch things? I'll let you know, if you don't bring smelling-salts, cold water, and vinegar, quick, I will
my precious
my bird
And you in brown
couldn't you tell her what you had to tell her, without frightening her to death? Look at her, with her pretty pale face and her cold hands. Do you call _that_ being a Banker
I hope she will do well now
No thanks to you in brown, if she does. My darling pretty
I hope
that you accompany Miss Manette to France
A likely thing, too
If it was ever intended that I should go across salt water, do you suppose Providence would have cast my lot in an island
It's not my affair
The people from the market did it. Let them bring another
Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do there
What now? Are you a subject for the mad hospital
Why do you write in the public streets? Is there -- tell me thou -- is there no other place to write such words in
Put it on, put it on
Call wine, wine; and finish there
This is our man
What the devil do _you_ do in that galley there
I don't know you
How goes it, Jacques
Is all the spilt wine swallowed
Every drop, Jacques
It is not often
that many of these miserable beasts know the taste of wine, or of anything but black bread and death. Is it not so, Jacques
It is so, Jacques
Ah! So much the worse! A bitter taste it is that such poor cattle always have in their mouths, and hard lives they live, Jacques. Am I right, Jacques
You are right, Jacques
Hold then! True
Gentlemen -- my wife
Gentlemen
good day. The chamber, furnished bachelor- fashion, that you wished to see, and were inquiring for when I stepped out, is on the fifth floor. The doorway of the staircase gives on the little courtyard close to the left here
near to the window of my establishment. But, now that I remember, one of you has already been there, and can show the way. Gentlemen, adieu
Willingly, sir
It is very high; it is a little difficult. Better to begin slowly
Is he alone
Alone! God help him, who should be with him
Is he always alone, then
Yes
Of his own desire
Of his own necessity. As he was, when I first saw him after they found me and demanded to know if I would take him, and, at my peril be discreet -- as he was then, so he is now
He is greatly changed
Changed
The door is locked then, my friend
Ay. Yes
You think it necessary to keep the unfortunate gentleman so retired
I think it necessary to turn the key
Why
Why! Because he has lived so long, locked up, that he would be frightened -- rave -- tear himself to pieces -- die -- come to I know not what harm -- if his door was left open
Is it possible
Is it possible
Yes. And a beautiful world we live in, when it _is_ possible, and when many other such things are possible, and not only possible, but done -- done, see you!-- under that sky there, every day. Long live the Devil. Let us go on
Courage, dear miss! Courage! Business! The worst will be over in a moment; it is but passing the room-door, and the worst is over. Then, all the good you bring to him, all the relief, all the happiness you bring to him, begin. Let our good friend here, assist you on that side. That's well, friend Defarge. Come, now. Business, business
I forgot them in the surprise of your visit
Leave us, good boys; we have business here
Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette
I show him, in the way you have seen, to a chosen few
Is that well
_I_ think it is well
Who are the few? How do you choose them
I choose them as real men, of my name -- Jacques is my name -- to whom the sight is likely to do good. Enough; you are English; that is another thing. Stay there, if you please, a little moment
A-a-a-business, business
Come in, come in
I am afraid of it
Of it? What
I mean of him. Of my father
Good day
Good day
You are still hard at work, I see
Yes -- I am working
I want
to let in a little more light here. You can bear a little more
What did you say
You can bear a little more light
I must bear it, if you let it in
Are you going to finish that pair of shoes to-day
What did you say
Do you mean to finish that pair of shoes to-day
I can't say that I mean to. I suppose so. I don't know
You have a visitor, you see
What did you say
Here is a visitor
Come
Here is monsieur, who knows a well-made shoe when he sees one. Show him that shoe you are working at. Take it, monsieur
Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, and the maker's name
I forget what it was you asked me. What did you say
I said, couldn't you describe the kind of shoe, for monsieur's information
It is a lady's shoe. It is a young lady's walking-shoe. It is in the present mode. I never saw the mode. I have had a pattern in my hand
And the maker's name
Did you ask me for my name
Assuredly I did
One Hundred and Five, North Tower
Is that all
One Hundred and Five, North Tower
You are not a shoemaker by trade
I am not a shoemaker by trade? No, I was not a shoemaker by trade. I-I learnt it here. I taught myself. I asked leave to
I asked leave to teach myself, and I got it with much difficulty after a long while, and I have made shoes ever since
Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothing of me
do you remember nothing of this man? Look at him. Look at me. Is there no old banker, no old business, no old servant, no old time, rising in your mind, Monsieur Manette
Have you recognised him, monsieur
Yes; for a moment. At first I thought it quite hopeless, but I have unquestionably seen, for a single moment, the face that I once knew so well. Hush! Let us draw further back. Hush
What is this
You are not the gaoler's daughter
No
Who are you
It is the same. How can it be! When was it! How was it
She had laid her head upon my shoulder, that night when I was summoned out -- she had a fear of my going, though I had none -- and when I was brought to the North Tower they found these upon my sleeve. 'You will leave me them? They can never help me to escape in the body, though they may in the spirit.' Those were the words I said. I remember them very well
How was this?-- _Was it you_
I entreat you, good gentlemen, do not come near us, do not speak, do not move
Hark
Whose voice was that
No, no, no; you are too young, too blooming. It can't be. See what the prisoner is. These are not the hands she knew, this is not the face she knew, this is not a voice she ever heard. No, no. She was -- and He was -- before the slow years of the North Tower -- ages ago. What is your name, my gentle angel
O, sir, at another time you shall know my name, and who my mother was, and who my father, and how I never knew their hard, hard history. But I cannot tell you at this time, and I cannot tell you here. All that I may tell you, here and now, is, that I pray to you to touch me and to bless me. Kiss me, kiss me! O my dear, my dear
If you hear in my voice -- I don't know that it is so, but I hope it is -- if you hear in my voice any resemblance to a voice that once was sweet music in your ears, weep for it, weep for it! If you touch, in touching my hair, anything that recalls a beloved head that lay on your breast when you were young and free, weep for it, weep for it! If, when I hint to you of a Home that is before us, where I will be true to you with all my duty and with all my faithful service, I bring back the remembrance of a Home long desolate, while your poor heart pined away, weep for it, weep for it
If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that your agony is over, and that I have come here to take you from it, and that we go to England to be at peace and at rest, I cause you to think of your useful life laid waste, and of our native France so wicked to you, weep for it, weep for it! And if, when I shall tell you of my name, and of my father who is living, and of my mother who is dead, you learn that I have to kneel to my honoured father, and implore his pardon for having never for his sake striven all day and lain awake and wept all night, because the love of my poor mother hid his torture from me, weep for it, weep for it! Weep for her, then, and for me! Good gentlemen, thank God! I feel his sacred tears upon my face, and his sobs strike against my heart. O, see! Thank God for us, thank God
If, without disturbing him
all could be arranged for our leaving Paris at once, so that, from the very door, he could be taken away
But, consider. Is he fit for the journey
More fit for that, I think, than to remain in this city, so dreadful to him
It is true
More than that; Monsieur Manette is, for all reasons, best out of France. Say, shall I hire a carriage and post-horses
That's business
and if business is to be done, I had better do it
Then be so kind
as to leave us here. You see how composed he has become, and you cannot be afraid to leave him with me now. Why should you be? If you will lock the door to secure us from interruption, I do not doubt that you will find him, when you come back, as quiet as you leave him. In any case, I will take care of him until you return, and then we will remove him straight
You remember the place, my father? You remember coming up here
What did you say
Remember? No, I don't remember. It was so very long ago
One Hundred and Five, North Tower
To the Barrier
Your papers, travellers
See here then, Monsieur the Officer
these are the papers of monsieur inside, with the white head. They were consigned to me, with him, at the
It is well. Forward
Adieu
I hope you care to be recalled to life
I can't say
the House
Bust me, if she ain't at it agin
What
You're at it agin, are you
What
what are you up to, Aggerawayter
I was only saying my prayers
Saying your prayers! You're a nice woman! What do you mean by flopping yourself down and praying agin me
I was not praying against you; I was praying for you
You weren't. And if you were, I won't be took the liberty with. Here! your mother's a nice woman, young Jerry, going a praying agin your father's prosperity. You've got a dutiful mother, you have, my son. You've got a religious mother, you have, my boy: going and flopping herself down, and praying that the bread-and-butter may be snatched out of the mouth of her only child
And what do you suppose, you conceited female
that the worth of _your_ prayers may be? Name the price that you put _your_ prayers at
They only come from the heart, Jerry. They are worth no more than that
Worth no more than that
They ain't worth much, then. Whether or no, I won't be prayed agin, I tell you. I can't afford it. I'm not a going to be made unlucky by _your_ sneaking. If you must go flopping yourself down, flop in favour of your husband and child, and not in opposition to 'em. If I had had any but a unnat'ral wife, and this poor boy had had any but a unnat'ral mother, I might have made some money last week instead of being counter-prayed and countermined and religiously circumwented into the worst of luck. B-u-u-ust me
if I ain't, what with piety and one blowed thing and another, been choused this last week into as bad luck as ever a poor devil of a honest tradesman met with! Young Jerry, dress yourself, my boy, and while I clean my boots keep a eye upon your mother now and then, and if you see any signs of more flopping, give me a call. For, I tell you
I won't be gone agin, in this manner. I am as rickety as a hackney-coach, I'm as sleepy as laudanum, my lines is strained to that degree that I shouldn't know, if it wasn't for the pain in 'em, which was me and which somebody else, yet I'm none the better for it in pocket; and it's my suspicion that you've been at it from morning to night to prevent me from being the better for it in pocket, and I won't put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what do you say now
Ah! yes! You're religious, too. You wouldn't put yourself in opposition to the interests of your husband and child, would you? Not you
You are going to flop, mother. -- Halloa, father
Now, Aggerawayter! What are you up to? At it again
asked a blessing
Don't do it
I ain't a going to be blest out of house and home. I won't have my wittles blest off my table. Keep still
a honest tradesman
Porter wanted
Hooray, father! Here's an early job to begin with
Al-ways rusty! His fingers is al-ways rusty
Where does my father get all that iron rust from? He don't get no iron rust here
You know the Old Bailey, well, no doubt
Ye-es, sir
I _do_ know the Bailey
Just so. And you know Mr. Lorry
I know Mr. Lorry, sir, much better than I know the Bailey. Much better
than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to know the Bailey
Very well. Find the door where the witnesses go in, and show the door-keeper this note for Mr. Lorry. He will then let you in
Into the court, sir
Into the court
What do you think of this
Am I to wait in the court, sir
I am going to tell you. The door-keeper will pass the note to Mr. Lorry, and do you make any gesture that will attract Mr. Lorry's attention, and show him where you stand. Then what you have to do, is, to remain there until he wants you
Is that all, sir
That's all. He wishes to have a messenger at hand. This is to tell him you are there
I suppose they'll be trying Forgeries this morning
Treason
That's quartering
Barbarous
It is the law
It is the law
It's hard in the law to spile a man, I think. Ifs hard enough to kill him, but it's wery hard to spile him, sir
Not at all
Speak well of the law. Take care of your chest and voice, my good friend, and leave the law to take care of itself. I give you that advice
It's the damp, sir, what settles on my chest and voice
I leave you to judge what a damp way of earning a living mine is
Well, well
we all have our various ways of gaining a livelihood. Some of us have damp ways, and some of us have dry ways. Here is the letter. Go along
You are a lean old one, too
Whatever is is right
What's on
Nothing yet
What's coming on
The Treason case
The quartering one, eh
Ah
he'll be drawn on a hurdle to be half hanged, and then he'll be taken down and sliced before his own face, and then his inside will be taken out and burnt while he looks on, and then his head will be chopped off, and he'll be cut into quarters. That's the sentence
If he's found Guilty, you mean to say
Oh! they'll find him guilty
Don't you be afraid of that
What's _he_ got to do with the case
Blest if I know
What have _you_ got to do with it, then, if a person may inquire
Blest if I know that either
Who are they
Witnesses
For which side
Against
Against what side
The prisoner's
Mr. Jarvis Lorry, are you a clerk in Tellson's bank
I am
On a certain Friday night in November one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five, did business occasion you to travel between London and Dover by the mail
It did
Were there any other passengers in the mail
Two
Did they alight on the road in the course of the night
They did
Mr. Lorry, look upon the prisoner. Was he one of those two passengers
I cannot undertake to say that he was
Does he resemble either of these two passengers
Both were so wrapped up, and the night was so dark, and we were all so reserved, that I cannot undertake to say even that
Mr. Lorry, look again upon the prisoner. Supposing him wrapped up as those two passengers were, is there anything in his bulk and stature to render it unlikely that he was one of them
No
You will not swear, Mr. Lorry, that he was not one of them
No
So at least you say he may have been one of them
Yes. Except that I remember them both to have been -- like myself -- timorous of highwaymen, and the prisoner has not a timorous air
Did you ever see a counterfeit of timidity, Mr. Lorry
I certainly have seen that
Mr. Lorry, look once more upon the prisoner. Have you seen him, to your certain knowledge, before
I have
When
I was returning from France a few days afterwards, and, at Calais, the prisoner came on board the packet-ship in which I returned, and made the voyage with me
At what hour did he come on board
At a little after midnight
In the dead of the night. Was he the only passenger who came on board at that untimely hour
He happened to be the only one
Never mind about &bquo;happening,' Mr. Lorry. He was the only passenger who came on board in the dead of the night
He was
Were you travelling alone, Mr. Lorry, or with any companion
With two companions. A gentleman and lady. They are here
They are here. Had you any conversation with the prisoner
Hardly any. The weather was stormy, and the passage long and rough, and I lay on a sofa, almost from shore to shore
Miss Manette
Miss Manette, look upon the prisoner
Miss Manette, have you seen the prisoner before
Yes, sir
Where
On board of the packet-ship just now referred to, sir, and on the same occasion
You are the young lady just now referred to
O! most unhappily, I am
Answer the questions put to you, and make no remark upon them
Miss Manette, had you any conversation with the prisoner on that passage across the Channel
Yes, sir
Recall it
When the gentleman came on board
Do you mean the prisoner
Yes, my Lord
Then say the prisoner
When the prisoner came on board, he noticed that my father
was much fatigued and in a very weak state of health. My father was so reduced that I was afraid to take him out of the air, and I had made a bed for him on the deck near the cabin steps, and I sat on the deck at his side to take care of him. There were no other passengers that night, but we four. The prisoner was so good as to beg permission to advise me how I could shelter my father from the wind and weather, better than I had done. I had not known how to do it well, not understanding how the wind would set when we were out of the harbour. He did it for me. He expressed great gentleness and kindness for my father's state, and I am sure he felt it. That was the manner of our beginning to speak together
Let me interrupt you for a moment. Had he come on board alone
No
How many were with him
Two French gentlemen
Had they conferred together
They had conferred together until the last moment, when it was necessary for the French gentlemen to be landed in their boat
Had any papers been handed about among them, similar to these lists
Some papers had been handed about among them, but I don't know what papers
Like these in shape and size
Possibly, but indeed I don't know, although they stood whispering very near to me: because they stood at the top of the cabin steps to have the light of the lamp that was hanging there; it was a dull lamp, and they spoke very low, and I did not hear what they said, and saw only that they looked at papers
Now, to the prisoner's conversation, Miss Manette
The prisoner was as open in his confidence with me -- which arose out of my helpless situation -- as he was kind, and good, and useful to my father. I hope
I may not repay him by doing him harm to-day
Miss Manette, if the prisoner does not perfectly understand that you give the evidence which it is your duty to give -- which you must give -- and which you cannot escape from giving -- with great unwillingness, he is the only person present in that condition. Please to go on
He told me that he was travelling on business of a delicate and difficult nature, which might get people into trouble, and that he was therefore travelling under an assumed name. He said that this business had, within a few days, taken him to France, and might, at intervals, take him backwards and forwards between France and England for a long time to come
Did he say anything about America, Miss Manette? Be particular
He tried to explain to me how that quarrel had arisen, and he said that, so far as he could judge, it was a wrong and foolish one on England's part. He added, in a jesting way, that perhaps George Washington might gain almost as great a name in history as George the Third. But there was no harm in his way of saying this: it was said laughingly, and to beguile the time
Doctor Manette, look upon the prisoner. Have you ever seen him before
Once. When he called at my lodgings in London. Some three years, or three years and a half ago
Can you identify him as your fellow-passenger on board the packet, or speak to his conversation with your daughter
Sir, I can do neither
Is there any particular and special reason for your being unable to do either
There is
Has it been your misfortune to undergo a long imprisonment, without trial, or even accusation, in your native country, Doctor Manette
A long imprisonment
Were you newly released on the occasion in question
They tell me so
Have you no remembrance of the occasion
None. My mind is a blank, from some time -- I cannot even say what time -- when I employed myself, in my captivity, in making shoes, to the time when I found myself living in London with my dear daughter here. She had become familiar to me, when a gracious God restored my faculties; but, I am quite unable even to say how she had become familiar. I have no remembrance of the process
You say again you are quite sure that it was the prisoner
Did you ever see anybody very like the prisoner
Look well upon that gentleman, my learned friend there
and then look well upon the prisoner. How say you? Are they very like each other
I'd hold half a guinea that _he_ don't get no law-work to do. Don't look like the sort of one to get any, do he
Officer! look to that young lady. Help the gentleman to take her out. Don't you see she will fall
Jerry, if you wish to take something to eat, you can. But, keep in the way. You will be sure to hear when the jury come in. Don't be a moment behind them, for I want you to take the verdict back to the bank. You are the quickest messenger I know, and will get to Temple Bar long before I can
How is the young lady
She is greatly distressed; but her father is comforting her, and she feels the better for being out of court
I'll tell the prisoner so. It won't do for a respectable bank gentleman like you, to be seen speaking to him publicly, you know
Mr. Darnay
You will naturally be anxious to hear of the witness, Miss Manette. She will do very well. You have seen the worst of her agitation
I am deeply sorry to have been the cause of it. Could you tell her so for me, with my fervent acknowledgments
Yes, I could. I will, if you ask it
I do ask it. Accept my cordial thanks
What
do you expect, Mr. Darnay
The worst
It's the wisest thing to expect, and the likeliest. But I think their withdrawing is in your favour
Jerry! Jerry
Here, sir! It's a fight to get back again. Here I am, sir
Quick! Have you got it
Yes, sir
AQUITTED
If you had sent the message, &bquo;Recalled to Life,' again
I should have known what you meant, this time
I am glad to have brought you off with honour, Mr. Darnay. It was an infamous prosecution, grossly infamous; but not the less likely to succeed on that account
You have laid me under an obligation to you for life -- in two senses
I have done my best for you, Mr. Darnay; and my best is as good as another man's, I believe
Much better
You think so
Well! you have been present all day, and you ought to know. You are a man of business, too
And as such
as such I will appeal to Doctor Manette, to break up this conference and order us all to our homes. Miss Lucie looks ill, Mr. Darnay has had a terrible day, we are worn out
Speak for yourself, Mr. Lorry
I have a night's work to do yet. Speak for yourself
I speak for myself
and for Mr. Darnay, and for Miss Lucie, and -- Miss Lucie, do you not think I may speak for us all
My father
Shall we go home, my father
Yes
So, Mr. Lorry! Men of business may speak to Mr. Darnay now
If you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the business mind is divided between good-natured impulse and business appearances, you would be amused, Mr. Darnay
You have mentioned that before, sir. We men of business, who serve a House, are not our own masters. We have to think of the House more than ourselves
_I_ know, _I_ know
Don't be nettled, Mr. Lorry. You are as good as another, I have no doubt: better, I dare say
And indeed, sir
I really don't know what you have to do with the matter. If you'll excuse me, as very much your elder, for saying so, I really don't know that it is your business
Business! Bless you, _I_ have no business
It is a pity you have not, sir
I think so, too
If you had
perhaps you would attend to it
Lord love you, no!-- I shouldn't
Well, sir
business is a very good thing, and a very respectable thing. And, sir, if business imposes its restraints and its silences and impediments, Mr. Darnay as a young gentleman of generosity knows how to make allowance for that circumstance. Mr. Darnay, good night, God bless you, sir! I hope you have been this day preserved for a prosperous and happy life.-- Chair there
This is a strange chance that throws you and me together. This must be a strange night to you, standing alone here with your counterpart on these street stones
I hardly seem yet
to belong to this world again
I don't wonder at it; it's not so long since you were pretty far advanced on your way to another. You speak faintly
I begin to think I _am_ faint
Then why the devil don't you dine? I dined, myself, while those numskulls were deliberating which world you should belong to -- this, or some other. Let me show you the nearest tavern to dine well at
Do you feel, yet, that you belong to this terrestrial scheme again, Mr. Darnay
I am frightfully confused regarding time and place; but I am so far mended as to feel that
It must be an immense satisfaction
As to me, the greatest desire I have, is to forget that I belong to it. It has no good in it for me -- except wine like this -- nor I for it. So we are not much alike in that particular. Indeed, I begin to think we are not much alike in any particular, you and I
Now your dinner is done
why don't you call a health, Mr. Darnay; why don't you give your toast
What health? What toast
Why, it's on the tip of your tongue. It ought to be, it must be, I'll swear it's there
Miss Manette, then
Miss Manette, then
That's a fair young lady to hand to a coach in the dark, Mr. Darnay
Yes
That's a fair young lady to be pitied by and wept for by! How does it feel? Is it worth being tried for one's life, to be the object of such sympathy and compassion, Mr. Darnay
She was mightily pleased to have your message, when I gave it her. Not that she showed she was pleased, but I suppose she was
I neither want any thanks, nor merit any
It was nothing to do, in the first place; and I don't know why I did it, in the second. Mr. Darnay, let me ask you a question
Willingly, and a small return for your good offices
Do you think I particularly like you
Really, Mr. Carton
I have not asked myself the question
But ask yourself the question now
You have acted as if you do; but I don't think you do
_I_ don't think I do
I begin to have a very good opinion of your understanding
Nevertheless
there is nothing in that, I hope, to prevent my calling the reckoning, and our parting without ill-blood on either side
Nothing in life
Do you call the whole reckoning
Then bring me another pint of this same wine, drawer, and come and wake me at ten
A last word, Mr. Darnay: you think I am drunk
I think you have been drinking, Mr. Carton
Think? You know I have been drinking
Since I must say so, I know it
Then you shall likewise know why. I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me
Much to be regretted. You might have used your talents better
May be so, Mr. Darnay; may be not. Don't let your sober face elate you, however; you don't know what it may come to. Good night
Do you particularly like the man
why should you particularly like a man who resembles you? There is nothing in you to like; you know that. Ah, confound you! What a change you have made in yourself! A good reason for taking to a man, that he shows you what you have fallen away from, and what you might have been! Change places with him, and would you have been looked at by those blue eyes as he was, and commiserated by that agitated face as he was? Come on, and have it out in plain words! You hate the fellow
Ten o'clock, sir
ten o'clock, sir
_What's_ the matter
Ten o'clock, sir
What do you mean? Ten o'clock at night
Yes, sir. Your honour told me to call you
Oh! I remember. Very well, very well
You are a little late, Memory
About the usual time; it may be a quarter of an hour later
You have had your bottle, I perceive, Sydney
Two to-night, I think. I have been dining with the day's client; or seeing him dine -- it's all one
That was a rare point, Sydney, that you brought to bear upon the identification. How did you come by it? When did it strike you
I thought he was rather a handsome fellow, and I thought I should have been much the same sort of fellow, if I had had any luck
You and your luck, Sydney! Get to work, get to work
Now I am ready
Not much boiling down to be done to-night, Memory
How much
Only two sets of them
Give me the worst first
There they are, Sydney. Fire away
And now we have done, Sydney, fill a bumper of punch
You were very sound, Sydney, in the matter of those crown witnesses to-day. Every question told
I always am sound; am I not
I don't gainsay it. What has roughened your temper? Put some punch to it and smooth it again
The old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School
the old seesaw Sydney. Up one minute and down the next; now in spirits and now in despondency
Ah
yes! The same Sydney, with the same luck. Even then, I did exercises for other boys, and seldom did my own
And why not
God knows. It was my way, I suppose
Carton
your way is, and always was, a lame way. You summon no energy and purpose. Look at me
Oh, botheration
don't _you_ be moral
How have I done what I have done
how do I do what I do
Partly through paying me to help you, I suppose. But it's not worth your while to apostrophise me, or the air, about it; what you want to do, you do. You were always in the front rank, and I was always behind
I had to get into the front rank; I was not born there, was I
I was not present at the ceremony; but my opinion is you were
Before Shrewsbury, and at Shrewsbury, and ever since Shrewsbury
you have fallen into your rank, and I have fallen into mine. Even when we were fellow-students in the Student-Quarter of Paris, picking up French, and French law, and other French crumbs that we didn't get much good of, you were always somewhere, and I was always nowhere
And whose fault was that
Upon my soul, I am not sure that it was not yours. You were always driving and riving and shouldering and passing, to that restless degree that I had no chance for my life but in rust and repose. It's a gloomy thing, however, to talk about one's own past, with the day breaking. Turn me in some other direction before I go
Well then! Pledge me to the pretty witness
Are you turned in a pleasant direction
Pretty witness
I have had enough of witnesses to-day and to-night; who's your pretty witness
The picturesque doctor's daughter, Miss Manette
_She_ pretty
Is she not
No
Why, man alive, she was the admiration of the whole Court
Rot the admiration of the whole Court! Who made the Old Bailey a judge of beauty? She was a golden-haired doll
Do you know, Sydney
do you know, I rather thought, at the time, that you sympathised with the golden-haired doll, and were quick to see what happened to the golden-haired doll
Quick to see what happened! If a girl, doll or no doll, swoons within a yard or two of a man's nose, he can see it without a perspective-glass. I pledge you, but I deny the beauty. And now I'll have no more drink; I'll get to bed
Doctor Manette at home
Miss Lucie at home
Miss Pross at home
As I am at home myself
I'll go upstairs
I wonder
that he keeps that reminder of his sufferings about him
And why wonder at that
I should have thought
Pooh! You'd have thought
How do you do
I am pretty well, I thank you
how are you
Nothing to boast of
Indeed
Ah! indeed
I am very much put out about my Ladybird
Indeed
For gracious sake say something else besides &bquo;indeed,' or you'll fidget me to death
Really, then
Really, is bad enough
but better. Yes, I am very much put out
May I ask the cause
I don't want dozens of people who are not at all worthy of Ladybird, to come here looking after her
_Do_ dozens come for that purpose
Hundreds
Dear me
I have lived with the darling -- or the darling has lived with me, and paid me for it; which she certainly should never have done, you may take your affidavit, if I could have afforded to keep either myself or her for nothing -- since she was ten years old. And it's really very hard
All sorts of people who are not in the least degree worthy of the pet, are always turning up
When you began it
_I_ began it, Miss Pross
Didn't you? Who brought her father to life
Oh! If _that_ was beginning it
It wasn't ending it, I suppose? I say, when you began it, it was hard enough; not that I have any fault to find with Doctor Manette, except that he is not worthy of such a daughter, which is no imputation on him, for it was not to be expected that anybody should be, under any circumstances. But it really is doubly and trebly hard to have crowds and multitudes of people turning up after him (I could have forgiven him), to take Ladybird's affections away from me
There never was, nor will be, but one man worthy of Ladybird
and that was my brother Solomon, if he hadn't made a mistake in life
As we happen to be alone for the moment, and are both people of business
let me ask you -- does the Doctor, in talking with Lucie, never refer to the shoemaking time, yet
Never
And yet keeps that bench and those tools beside him
Ah
But I don't say he don't refer to it within himself
Do you believe that he thinks of it much
I do
Do you imagine
Never imagine anything. Have no imagination at all
I stand corrected; do you suppose -- you go so far as to suppose, sometimes
Now and then
Do you suppose
that Doctor Manette has any theory of his own, preserved through all those years, relative to the cause of his being so oppressed; perhaps, even to the name of his oppressor
I don't suppose anything about it but what Ladybird tells me
And that is
That she thinks he has
Now don't be angry at my asking all these questions; because I am a mere dull man of business, and you are a woman of business
Dull
No, no, no. Surely not. To return to business:-- Is it not remarkable that Doctor Manette, unquestionably innocent of any crime as we are all well assured he is, should never touch upon that question? I will not say with me, though he had business relations with me many years ago, and we are now intimate; I will say with the fair daughter to whom he is so devotedly attached, and who is so devotedly attached to him? Believe me, Miss Pross, I don't approach the topic with you, out of curiosity, but out of zealous interest
Well! To the best of my understanding, and bad's the best, you'll tell me
he is afraid of the whole subject
Afraid
It's plain enough, I should think, why he may be. It's a dreadful remembrance. Besides that, his loss of himself grew out of it. Not knowing how he lost himself, or how he recovered himself, he may never feel certain of not losing himself again. That alone wouldn't make the subject pleasant, I should think
True
and fearful to reflect upon. Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind, Miss Pross, whether it is good for Doctor Manette to have that suppression always shut up within him. Indeed, it is this doubt and the uneasiness it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present confidence
Can't be helped
Touch that string, and he instantly changes for the worse. Better leave it alone. In short, must leave it alone, like or no like. Sometimes, he gets up in the dead of the night, and will be heard, by us overhead there, walking up and down, walking up and down, in his room. Ladybird has learnt to know then that his mind is walking up and down, walking up and down, in his old prison. She hurries to him, and they go on together, walking up and down, walking up and down, until he is composed. But he never says a word of the true reason of his restlessness, to her, and she finds it best not to hint at it to him. In silence they go walking up and down together, walking up and down together, till her love and company have brought him to himself
Here they are
and now we shall have hundreds of people pretty soon
a fit of the jerks
Pray, Doctor Manette
have you seen much of the Tower
Lucie and I have been there; but only casually. We have seen enough of it, to know that it teems with interest; little more
_I_ have been there, as you remember
in another character, and not in a character that gives facilities for seeing much of it. They told me a curious thing when I was there
What was that
In making some alterations, the workmen came upon an old dungeon, which had been, for many years, built up and forgotten. Every stone of its inner wall was covered by inscriptions which had been carved by prisoners -- dates, names, complaints, and prayers. Upon a corner stone in an angle of the wall, one prisoner, who seemed to have gone to execution, had cut as his last work, three letters. They were done with some very poor instrument, and hurriedly, with an unsteady hand. At first, they were read as D. I. C.; but, on being more carefully examined, the last letter was found to be G. There was no record or legend of any prisoner with those initials, and many fruitless guesses were made what the name could have been. At length, it was suggested that the letters were not initials, but the complete word, DIG. The floor was examined very carefully under the inscription, and, in the earth beneath a stone, or tile, or some fragment of paving, were found the ashes of a paper, mingled with the ashes of a small leathern case or bag. What the unknown prisoner had written will never be read, but he had written something, and hidden it away to keep it from the gaoler
My father
you are ill
No, my dear, not ill. There are large drops of rain falling, and they made me start. We had better go in
The rain-drops are still falling, large, heavy, and few
It comes slowly
It comes surely
A multitude of people, and yet a solitude
Is it not impressive, Mr. Darnay
Sometimes, I have sat here of an evening, until I have fancied -- but even the shade of a foolish fancy makes me shudder to-night, when all is so black and solemn
Let us shudder too. We may know what it is
It will seem nothing to you. Such whims are only impressive as we originate them, I think; they are not to be communicated. I have sometimes sat alone here of an evening, listening, until I have made the echoes out to be the echoes of all the footsteps that are coming by-and-bye into our lives
There is a great crowd coming one day into our lives, if that be so
Are all these footsteps destined to come to all of us, Miss Manette, or are we to divide them among us
I don't know, Mr. Darnay; I told you it was a foolish fancy, but you asked for it. When I have yielded myself to it, I have been alone, and then I have imagined them the footsteps of the people who are to come into my life, and my father's
I take them into mine
_I_ ask no questions and make no stipulations. There is a great crowd bearing down upon us, Miss Manette, and I see them -- by the Lightning
And I hear them
Here they come, fast, fierce, and furious
What a night it has been! Almost a night, Jerry
to bring the dead out of their graves
I never see the night myself, master -- nor yet I don't expect to -- what would do that
Good night, Mr. Carton
Good night, Mr. Darnay. Shall we ever see such a night again, together
The earth and the fulness thereof are mine, saith Monseigneur
the Centre of Truth
frizzled, powdered, in a gold-laced coat, pumps, and white silk stockings
I devote you
to the Devil
What has gone wrong
Pardon, Monsieur the Marquis
it is a child
Why does he make that abominable noise? Is it his child
Excuse me, Monsieur the Marquis -- it is a pity -- yes
Killed
Dead
It is extraordinary to me
that you people cannot take care of yourselves and your children. One or the other of you is for ever in the way. How do I know what injury you have done my horses. See! Give him that
Dead
I know all, I know all
Be a brave man, my Gaspard! It is better for the poor little plaything to die so, than to live. It has died in a moment without pain. Could it have lived an hour as happily
You are a philosopher, you there
How do they call you
They call me Defarge
Of what trade
Monsieur the Marquis, vendor of wine
Pick up that, philosopher and vendor of wine
and spend it as you will. The horses there; are they right
Hold
Hold the horses! Who threw that
You dogs
I would ride over any of you very willingly, and exterminate you from the earth. If I knew which rascal threw at the carriage, and if that brigand were sufficiently near it, he should be crushed under the wheels
Go on
It will die out
directly
Bring me hither that fellow
I passed you on the road
Monseigneur, it is true. I had the honour of being passed on the road
Coming up the hill, and at the top of the hill, both
Monseigneur, it is true
What did you look at, so fixedly
Monseigneur, I looked at the man
What man, pig? And why look there
Pardon, Monseigneur; he swung by the chain of the shoe -- the drag
Who
Monseigneur, the man
May the Devil carry away these idiots! How do you call the man? You know all the men of this part of the country. Who was he
Your clemency, Monseigneur! He was not of this part of the country. Of all the days of my life, I never saw him
Swinging by the chain? To be suffocated
With your gracious permission, that was the wonder of it, Monseigneur. His head hanging over -- like this
What was he like
Monseigneur, he was whiter than the miller. All covered with dust, white as a spectre, tall as a spectre
Truly, you did well
to see a thief accompanying my carriage, and not open that great mouth of yours. Bah! Put him aside, Monsieur Gabelle
Bah! Go aside
Lay hands on this stranger if he seeks to lodge in your village to-night, and be sure that his business is honest, Gabelle
Monseigneur, I am flattered to devote myself to your orders
Did he run away, fellow?-- where is that Accursed
Did the man run away, Dolt, when we stopped for the drag
Monseigneur, he precipitated himself over the hill-side, head first, as a person plunges into the river
See to it, Gabelle. Go on
It is you, Monseigneur! Monseigneur, a petition
How, then! What is it? Always petitions
Monseigneur. For the love of the great God! My husband, the forester
What of your husband, the forester? Always the same with you people. He cannot pay something
He has paid all, Monseigneur. He is dead
Well! He is quiet. Can I restore him to you
Alas, no, Monseigneur! But he lies yonder, under a little heap of poor grass
Well
Monseigneur, there are so many little heaps of poor grass
Again, well
Monseigneur, hear me! Monseigneur, hear my petition! My husband died of want; so many die of want; so many more will die of want
Again, well? Can I feed them
Monseigneur, the good God knows; but I don't ask it. My petition is, that a morsel of stone or wood, with my husband's name, may be placed over him to show where he lies. Otherwise, the place will be quickly forgotten, it will never be found when I am dead of the same malady, I shall be laid under some other heap of poor grass. Monseigneur, they are so many, they increase so fast, there is so much want. Monseigneur! Monseigneur
Monsieur Charles, whom I expect; is he arrived from England
Monseigneur, not yet
My nephew
they said he was not arrived
Ah! It is not probable he will arrive to-night; nevertheless, leave the table as it is. I shall be ready in a quarter of an hour
What is that
Monseigneur? That
Outside the blinds. Open the blinds
Well
Monseigneur, it is nothing. The trees and the night are all that are here
Good
Close them again
Ask who is arrived
You left Paris yesterday, sir
Yesterday. And you
I come direct
From London
Yes
You have been a long time coming
On the contrary; I come direct
Pardon me! I mean, not a long time on the journey; a long time intending the journey
I have been detained by
various business
Without doubt
I have come back, sir, as you anticipate, pursuing the object that took me away. It carried me into great and unexpected peril; but it is a sacred object, and if it had carried me to death I hope it would have sustained me
Not to death
it is not necessary to say, to death
I doubt, sir
whether, if it had carried me to the utmost brink of death, you would have cared to stop me there
Indeed, sir
for anything I know, you may have expressly worked to give a more suspicious appearance to the suspicious circumstances that surrounded me
No, no, no
But, however that may be
I know that your diplomacy would stop me by any means, and would know no scruple as to means
My friend, I told you so
Do me the favour to recall that I told you so, long ago
I recall it
Thank you
In effect, sir
I believe it to be at once your bad fortune, and my good fortune, that has kept me out of a prison in France here
I do not quite understand
Dare I ask you to explain
I believe that if you were not in disgrace with the Court, and had not been overshadowed by that cloud for years past, a letter de cachet would have sent me to some fortress indefinitely
It is possible
For the honour of the family, I could even resolve to incommode you to that extent. Pray excuse me
I perceive that, happily for me, the Reception of the day before yesterday was, as usual, a cold one
I would not say happily, my friend
I would not be sure of that. A good opportunity for consideration, surrounded by the advantages of solitude, might influence your destiny to far greater advantage than you influence it for yourself. But it is useless to discuss the question. I am, as you say, at a disadvantage. These little instruments of correction, these gentle aids to the power and honour of families, these slight favours that might so incommode you, are only to be obtained now by interest and importunity. They are sought by so many, and they are granted (comparatively) to so few! It used not to be so, but France in all such things is changed for the worse. Our not remote ancestors held the right of life and death over the surrounding vulgar. From this room, many such dogs have been taken out to be hanged; in the next room (my bedroom), one fellow, to our knowledge, was poniarded on the spot for professing some insolent delicacy respecting his daughter -- _his_ daughter? We have lost many privileges; a new philosophy has become the mode; and the assertion of our station, in these days, might (I do not go so far as to say would, but might) cause us real inconvenience. All very bad, very bad
We have so asserted our station, both in the old time and in the modern time also
that I believe our name to be more detested than any name in France
Let us hope so
Detestation of the high is the involuntary homage of the low
There is not
a face I can look at, in all this country round about us, which looks at me with any deference on it but the dark deference of fear and slavery
A compliment
to the grandeur of the family, merited by the manner in which the family has sustained its grandeur. Hah
Repression is the only lasting philosophy. The dark deference of fear and slavery, my friend
will keep the dogs obedient to the whip, as long as this roof
shuts out the sky
Meanwhile
I will preserve the honour and repose of the family, if you will not. But you must be fatigued. Shall we terminate our conference for the night
A moment more
An hour, if you please
Sir
we have done wrong, and are reaping the fruits of wrong
_We_ have done wrong
Our family; our honourable family, whose honour is of so much account to both of us, in such different ways. Even in my father's time, we did a world of wrong, injuring every human creature who came between us and our pleasure, whatever it was. Why need I speak of my father's time, when it is equally yours? Can I separate my father's twin-brother, joint inheritor, and next successor, from himself
Death has done that
And has left me
bound to a system that is frightful to me, responsible for it, but powerless in it; seeking to execute the last request of my dear mother's lips, and obey the last look of my dear mother's eyes, which implored me to have mercy and to redress; and tortured by seeking assistance and power in vain
Seeking them from me, my nephew
you will for ever seek them in vain, be assured
My friend, I will die, perpetuating the system under which I have lived
Better to be a rational creature
and accept your natural destiny. But you are lost, Monsieur Charles, I see
This property and France are lost to me
I renounce them
Are they both yours to renounce? France may be, but is the property? It is scarcely worth mentioning; but, is it yet
I had no intention, in the words I used, to claim it yet. If it passed to me from you, to-morrow
Which I have the vanity to hope is not probable
or twenty years hence
You do me too much honour
still, I prefer that supposition
I would abandon it, and live otherwise and elsewhere. It is little to relinquish. What is it but a wilderness of misery and ruin
Hah
To the eye it is fair enough, here; but seen in its integrity, under the sky, and by the daylight, it is a crumbling tower of waste, mismanagement, extortion, debt, mortgage, oppression, hunger, nakedness, and suffering
Hah
If it ever becomes mine, it shall be put into some hands better qualified to free it slowly (if such a thing is possible) from the weight that drags it down, so that the miserable people who cannot leave it and who have been long wrung to the last point of endurance, may, in another generation, suffer less; but it is not for me. There is a curse on it, and on all this land
And you
Forgive my curiosity; do you, under your new philosophy, graciously intend to live
I must do, to live, what others of my countrymen, even with nobility at their backs, may have to do some day-work
In England, for example
Yes. The family honour, sir, is safe from me in this country. The family name can suffer from me in no other, for I bear it in no other
England is very attractive to you, seeing how indifferently you have prospered there
I have already said, that for my prospering there, I am sensible I may be indebted to you, sir. For the rest, it is my Refuge
They say, those boastful English, that it is the Refuge of many. You know a compatriot who has found a Refuge there? A Doctor
Yes
With a daughter
Yes
Yes
You are fatigued. Good night
Yes
A Doctor with a daughter. Yes. So commences the new philosophy! You are fatigued. Good night
Good night
I look to the pleasure of seeing you again in the morning. Good repose! Light Monsieur my nephew to his chamber there!-- And burn Monsieur my nephew in his bed, if you will
Dead
I am cool now
and may go to bed
Drive him fast to his tomb. This, from Jacques
Charles Darnay! I rejoice to see you. We have been counting on your return these three or four days past. Mr. Stryver and Sydney Carton were both here yesterday, and both made you out to be more than due
I am obliged to them for their interest in the matter
Miss Manette
Is well
and your return will delight us all. She has gone out on some household matters, but will soon be home
Doctor Manette, I knew she was from home. I took the opportunity of her being from home, to beg to speak to you
Yes
Bring your chair here, and speak on
I have had the happiness, Doctor Manette, of being so intimate here
for some year and a half, that I hope the topic on which I am about to touch may not
Is Lucie the topic
She is
It is hard for me to speak of her at any time. It is very hard for me to hear her spoken of in that tone of yours, Charles Darnay
It is a tone of fervent admiration, true homage, and deep love, Doctor Manette
I believe it. I do you justice; I believe it
Shall I go on, sir
Yes, go on
You anticipate what I would say, though you cannot know how earnestly I say it, how earnestly I feel it, without knowing my secret heart, and the hopes and fears and anxieties with which it has long been laden. Dear Doctor Manette, I love your daughter fondly, dearly, disinterestedly, devotedly. If ever there were love in the world, I love her. You have loved yourself; let your old love speak for me
Not that, sir! Let that be! I adjure you, do not recall that
I ask your pardon
I do not doubt your loving Lucie; you may be satisfied of it
Have you spoken to Lucie
No
Nor written
Never
It would be ungenerous to affect not to know that your self-denial is to be referred to your consideration for her father. Her father thanks you
I know
how can I fail to know, Doctor Manette, I who have seen you together from day to day, that between you and Miss Manette there is an affection so unusual, so touching, so belonging to the circumstances in which it has been nurtured, that it can have few parallels, even in the tenderness between a father and child. I know, Doctor Manette -- how can I fail to know -- that, mingled with the affection and duty of a daughter who has become a woman, there is, in her heart, towards you, all the love and reliance of infancy itself. I know that, as in her childhood she had no parent, so she is now devoted to you with all the constancy and fervour of her present years and character, united to the trustfulness and attachment of the early days in which you were lost to her. I know perfectly well that if you had been restored to her from the world beyond this life, you could hardly be invested, in her sight, with a more sacred character than that in which you are always with her. I know that when she is clinging to you, the hands of baby, girl, and woman, all in one, are round your neck. I know that in loving you she sees and loves her mother at her own age, sees and loves you at my age, loves her mother broken-hearted, loves you through your dreadful trial and in your blessed restoration. I have known this, night and day, since I have known you in your home
Dear Doctor Manette, always knowing this, always seeing her and you with this hallowed light about you, I have forborne, and forborne, as long as it was in the nature of man to do it. I have felt, and do even now feel, that to bring my love -- even mine -- between you, is to touch your history with something not quite so good as itself. But I love her. Heaven is my witness that I love her
I believe it
I have thought so before now. I believe it
But, do not believe
that if my fortune were so cast as that, being one day so happy as to make her my wife, I must at any time put any separation between her and you, I could or would breathe a word of what I now say. Besides that I should know it to be hopeless, I should know it to be a baseness. If I had any such possibility, even at a remote distance of years, harboured in my thoughts, and hidden in my heart -- if it ever had been there -- if it ever could be there -- I could not now touch this honoured hand
No, dear Doctor Manette. Like you, a voluntary exile from France; like you, driven from it by its distractions, oppressions, and miseries; like you, striving to live away from it by my own exertions, and trusting in a happier future; I look only to sharing your fortunes, sharing your life and home, and being faithful to you to the death. Not to divide with Lucie her privilege as your child, companion, and friend; but to come in aid of it, and bind her closer to you, if such a thing can be
You speak so feelingly and so manfully, Charles Darnay, that I thank you with all my heart, and will open all my heart -- or nearly so. Have you any reason to believe that Lucie loves you
None. As yet, none
Is it the immediate object of this confidence, that you may at once ascertain that, with my knowledge
Not even so. I might not have the hopefulness to do it for weeks; I might (mistaken or not mistaken) have that hopefulness to-morrow
Do you seek any guidance from me
I ask none, sir. But I have thought it possible that you might have it in your power, if you should deem it right, to give me some
Do you seek any promise from me
I do seek that
What is it
I well understand that, without you, I could have no hope. I well understand that, even if Miss Manette held me at this moment in her innocent heart -- do not think I have the presumption to assume so much -- I could retain no place in it against her love for her father
If that be so, do you see what, on the other hand, is involved in it
I understand equally well, that a word from her father in any suitor's favour, would outweigh herself and all the world. For which reason, Doctor Manette
I would not ask that word, to save my life
I am sure of it. Charles Darnay, mysteries arise out of close love, as well as out of wide division; in the former case, they are subtle and delicate, and difficult to penetrate. My daughter Lucie is, in this one respect, such a mystery to me; I can make no guess at the state of her heart
May I ask, sir, if you think she is
Is sought by any other suitor
It is what I meant to say
You have seen Mr. Carton here, yourself. Mr. Stryver is here too, occasionally. If it be at all, it can only be by one of these
Or both
I had not thought of both; I should not think either, likely. You want a promise from me. Tell me what it is
It is, that if Miss Manette should bring to you at any time, on her own part, such a confidence as I have ventured to lay before you, you will bear testimony to what I have said, and to your belief in it. I hope you may be able to think so well of me, as to urge no influence against me. I say nothing more of my stake in this; this is what I ask. The condition on which I ask it, and which you have an undoubted right to require, I will observe immediately
I give the promise
without any condition. I believe your object to be, purely and truthfully, as you have stated it. I believe your intention is to perpetuate, and not to weaken, the ties between me and my other and far dearer self. If she should ever tell me that you are essential to her perfect happiness, I will give her to you. If there were -- Charles Darnay, if there were
any fancies, any reasons, any apprehensions, anything whatsoever, new or old, against the man she really loved -- the direct responsibility thereof not lying on his head -- they should all be obliterated for her sake. She is everything to me; more to me than suffering, more to me than wrong, more to me -- Well! This is idle talk
You said something to me
What was it you said to me
Your confidence in me ought to be returned with full confidence on my part. My present name, though but slightly changed from my mother's, is not, as you will remember, my own. I wish to tell you what that is, and why I am in England
Stop
I wish it, that I may the better deserve your confidence, and have no secret from you
Stop
Tell me when I ask you, not now. If your suit should prosper, if Lucie should love you, you shall tell me on your marriage morning. Do you promise
Willingly. "Give me your hand. She will be home directly, and it is better she should not see us together to-night. Go! God bless you
My father
Father dear
What shall I do! What shall I do
Sydney
mix another bowl of punch; I have something to say to you
Are you mixing that other bowl of punch
I am
Now, look here! I am going to tell you something that will rather surprise you, and that perhaps will make you think me not quite as shrewd as you usually do think me. I intend to marry
_Do_ you
Yes. And not for money. What do you say now
I don't feel disposed to say much. Who is she
Guess
Do I know her
Guess
I am not going to guess, at five o'clock in the morning, with my brains frying and sputtering in my head. If you want me to guess, you must ask me to dinner
Well then, I'll tell you
Sydney, I rather despair of making myself intelligible to you, because you are such an insensible dog
And you
are such a sensitive and poetical spirit
Come
though I don't prefer any claim to being the soul of Romance (for I hope I know better), still I am a tenderer sort of fellow than _you_
You are a luckier, if you mean that
I don't mean that. I mean I am a man of more -- more
Say gallantry, while you are about it
Well! I'll say gallantry. My meaning is that I am a man
who cares more to be agreeable, who takes more pains to be agreeable, who knows better how to be agreeable, in a woman's society, than you do
Go on
No; but before I go on
I'll have this out with you. You've been at Doctor Manette's house as much as I have, or more than I have. Why, I have been ashamed of your moroseness there! Your manners have been of that silent and sullen and hangdog kind, that, upon my life and soul, I have been ashamed of you, Sydney
It should be very beneficial to a man in your practice at the bar, to be ashamed of anything
you ought to be much obliged to me
You shall not get off in that way
no, Sydney, it's my duty to tell you -- and I tell you to your face to do you good -- that you are a devilish ill-conditioned fellow in that sort of society. You are a disagreeable fellow
Look at me
I have less need to make myself agreeable than you have, being more independent in circumstances. Why do I do it
I never saw you do it yet
I do it because it's politic; I do it on principle. And look at me! I get on
You don't get on with your account of your matrimonial intentions
I wish you would keep to that. As to me -- will you never understand that I am incorrigible
You have no business to be incorrigible
I have no business to be, at all, that I know of
Who is the lady
Now, don't let my announcement of the name make you uncomfortable, Sydney
because I know you don't mean half you say; and if you meant it all, it would be of no importance. I make this little preface, because you once mentioned the young lady to me in slighting terms
I did
Certainly; and in these chambers
You made mention of the young lady as a golden-haired doll. The young lady is Miss Manette. If you had been a fellow of any sensitiveness or delicacy of feeling in that kind of way, Sydney, I might have been a little resentful of your employing such a designation; but you are not. You want that sense altogether; therefore I am no more annoyed when I think of the expression, than I should be annoyed by a man's opinion of a picture of mine, who had no eye for pictures: or of a piece of music of mine, who had no ear for music
Now you know all about it, Syd
I don't care about fortune: she is a charming creature, and I have made up my mind to please myself: on the whole, I think I can afford to please myself. She will have in me a man already pretty well off, and a rapidly rising man, and a man of some distinction: it is a piece of good fortune for her, but she is worthy of good fortune. Are you astonished
Why should I be astonished
You approve
Why should I not approve
Well
you take it more easily than I fancied you would, and are less mercenary on my behalf than I thought you would be; though, to be sure, you know well enough by this time that your ancient chum is a man of a pretty strong will. Yes, Sydney, I have had enough of this style of life, with no other as a change from it; I feel that it is a pleasant thing for a man to have a home when he feels inclined to go to it (when he doesn't, he can stay away), and I feel that Miss Manette will tell well in any station, and will always do me credit. So I have made up my mind. And now, Sydney, old boy, I want to say a word to _you_ about _your_ prospects. You are in a bad way, you know; you really are in a bad way. You don't know the value of money, you live hard, you'll knock up one of these days, and be ill and poor; you really ought to think about a nurse
Now, let me recommend you
to look it in the face. I have looked it in the face, in my different way; look it in the face, you, in your different way. Marry. Provide somebody to take care of you. Never mind your having no enjoyment of women's society, nor understanding of it, nor tact for it. Find out somebody. Find out some respectable woman with a little property -- somebody in the landlady way, or lodging-letting way -- and marry her, against a rainy day. That's the kind of thing for _you_. Now think of it, Sydney
I'll think of it
Halloa
How do you do? I hope you are well
How do you do, Mr. Stryver? How do you do, sir
Can I do anything for you, Mr. Stryver
Why, no, thank you; this is a private visit to yourself, Mr. Lorry; I have come for a private word
Oh indeed
I am going
I am going to make an offer of myself in marriage to your agreeable little friend, Miss Manette, Mr. Lorry
Oh dear me
Oh dear me, sir
Oh dear you, sir? What may your meaning be, Mr. Lorry
My meaning
is, of course, friendly and appreciative, and that it does you the greatest credit, and -- in short, my meaning is everything you could desire. But -- really, you know, Mr. Stryver
you know there really is so much too much of you
Well
if I understand you, Mr. Lorry, I'll be hanged
D -- n it all, sir
am I not eligible
Oh dear yes! Yes. Oh yes, you're eligible
If you say eligible, you are eligible
Am I not prosperous
Oh! if you come to prosperous, you are prosperous
And advancing
If you come to advancing you know
nobody can doubt that
Then what on earth is your meaning, Mr. Lorry
Well! I -- Were you going there now
Straight
Then I think I wouldn't, if I was you
Why
Now, I'll put you in a corner
You are a man of business and bound to have a reason. State your reason. Why wouldn't you go
Because
I wouldn't go on such an object without having some cause to believe that I should succeed
D -- n _me_
but this beats everything
Here's a man of business -- a man of years -- a man of experience -- _in_ a Bank
and having summed up three leading reasons for complete success, he says there's no reason at all! Says it with his head on
When I speak of success, I speak of success with the young lady; and when I speak of causes and reasons to make success probable, I speak of causes and reasons that will tell as such with the young lady. The young lady, my good sir
the young lady. The young lady goes before all
Then you mean to tell me, Mr. Lorry
that it is your deliberate opinion that the young lady at present in question is a mincing Fool
Not exactly so. I mean to tell you, Mr. Stryver
that I will hear no disrespectful word of that young lady from any lips; and that if I knew any man -- which I hope I do not -- whose taste was so coarse, and whose temper was so overbearing, that he could not restrain himself from speaking disrespectfully of that young lady at this desk, not even Tellson's should prevent my giving him a piece of my mind
That is what I mean to tell you, sir
Pray let there be no mistake about it
This is something new to me, Mr. Lorry. You deliberately advise me not to go up to Soho and offer myself -- _my_self, Stryver of the King's Bench bar
Do you ask me for my advice, Mr. Stryver
Yes, I do
Very good. Then I give it, and you have repeated it correctly
And all I can say of it is
that this -- ha, ha!-- beats everything past, present, and to come
Now understand me
As a man of business, I am not justified in saying anything about this matter, for, as a man of business, I know nothing of it. But, as an old fellow, who has carried Miss Manette in his arms, who is the trusted friend of Miss Manette and of her father too, and who has a great affection for them both, I have spoken. The confidence is not of my seeking, recollect. Now, you think I may not be right
Not I
I can't undertake to find third parties in common sense; I can only find it for myself. I suppose sense in certain quarters; you suppose mincing bread-and-butter nonsense. It's new to me, but you are right, I dare say
What I suppose, Mr. Stryver, I claim to characterise for myself -- And understand me, sir
I will not -- not even at Tellson's -- have it characterised for me by any gentleman breathing
There! I beg your pardon
Granted. Thank you. Well, Mr. Stryver, I was about to say:-- it might be painful to you to find yourself mistaken, it might be painful to Doctor Manette to have the task of being explicit with you, it might be very painful to Miss Manette to have the task of being explicit with you. You know the terms upon which I have the honour and happiness to stand with the family. If you please, committing you in no way, representing you in no way, I will undertake to correct my advice by the exercise of a little new observation and judgment expressly brought to bear upon it. If you should then be dissatisfied with it, you can but test its soundness for yourself; if, on the other hand, you should be satisfied with it, and it should be what it now is, it may spare all sides what is best spared. What do you say
How long would you keep me in town
Oh! It is only a question of a few hours. I could go to Soho in the evening, and come to your chambers afterwards
Then I say yes
I won't go up there now, I am not so hot upon it as that comes to; I say yes, and I shall expect you to look in to-night. Good morning
And now
my way out of this, is, to put you all in the wrong
You shall not put me in the wrong, young lady
I'll do that for you
Well
I have been to Soho
To Soho
Oh, to be sure! What am I thinking of
And I have no doubt
that I was right in the conversation we had. My opinion is confirmed, and I reiterate my advice
I assure you
that I am sorry for it on your account, and sorry for it on the poor father's account. I know this must always be a sore subject with the family; let us say no more about it
I don't understand you
I dare say not
no matter, no matter
But it does matter
No it doesn't; I assure you it doesn't. Having supposed that there was sense where there is no sense, and a laudable ambition where there is not a laudable ambition, I am well out of my mistake, and no harm is done. Young women have committed similar follies often before, and have repented them in poverty and obscurity often before. In an unselfish aspect, I am sorry that the thing is dropped, because it would have been a bad thing for me in a worldly point of view; in a selfish aspect, I am glad that the thing has dropped, because it would have been a bad thing for me in a worldly point of view -- it is hardly necessary to say I could have gained nothing by it. There is no harm at all done. I have not proposed to the young lady, and, between ourselves, I am by no means certain, on reflection, that I ever should have committed myself to that extent. Mr. Lorry, you cannot control the mincing vanities and giddinesses of empty-headed girls; you must not expect to do it, or you will always be disappointed. Now, pray say no more about it. I tell you, I regret it on account of others, but I am satisfied on my own account. And I am really very much obliged to you for allowing me to sound you, and for giving me your advice; you know the young lady better than I do; you were right, it never would have done
Make the best of it, my dear sir
say no more about it; thank you again for allowing me to sound you; good night
I fear you are not well, Mr. Carton
No. But the life I lead, Miss Manette, is not conducive to health. What is to be expected of, or by, such profligates
Is it not -- forgive me; I have begun the question on my lips -- a pity to live no better life
God knows it is a shame
Then why not change it
It is too late for that. I shall never be better than I am. I shall sink lower, and be worse
Pray forgive me, Miss Manette. I break down before the knowledge of what I want to say to you. Will you hear me
If it will do you any good, Mr. Carton, if it would make you happier, it would make me very glad
God bless you for your sweet compassion
Don't be afraid to hear me. Don't shrink from anything I say. I am like one who died young. All my life might have been
No, Mr. Carton. I am sure that the best part of it might still be; I am sure that you might be much, much worthier of yourself
Say of you, Miss Manette, and although I know better -- although in the mystery of my own wretched heart I know better -- I shall never forget it
If it had been possible, Miss Manette, that you could have returned the love of the man you see before yourself -- flung away, wasted, drunken, poor creature of misuse as you know him to be -- he would have been conscious this day and hour, in spite of his happiness, that he would bring you to misery, bring you to sorrow and repentance, blight you, disgrace you, pull you down with him. I know very well that you can have no tenderness for me; I ask for none; I am even thankful that it cannot be
Without it, can I not save you, Mr. Carton? Can I not recall you -- forgive me again!-- to a better course? Can I in no way repay your confidence? I know this is a confidence
I know you would say this to no one else. Can I turn it to no good account for yourself, Mr. Carton
To none. No, Miss Manette, to none. If you will hear me through a very little more, all you can ever do for me is done. I wish you to know that you have been the last dream of my soul. In my degradation I have not been so degraded but that the sight of you with your father, and of this home made such a home by you, has stirred old shadows that I thought had died out of me. Since I knew you, I have been troubled by a remorse that I thought would never reproach me again, and have heard whispers from old voices impelling me upward, that I thought were silent for ever. I have had unformed ideas of striving afresh, beginning anew, shaking off sloth and sensuality, and fighting out the abandoned fight. A dream, all a dream, that ends in nothing, and leaves the sleeper where he lay down, but I wish you to know that you inspired it
Will nothing of it remain? O Mr. Carton, think again! Try again
No, Miss Manette; all through it, I have known myself to be quite undeserving. And yet I have had the weakness, and have still the weakness, to wish you to know with what a sudden mastery you kindled me, heap of ashes that I am, into fire -- a fire, however, inseparable in its nature from myself, quickening nothing, lighting nothing, doing no service, idly burning away
Since it is my misfortune, Mr. Carton, to have made you more unhappy than you were before you knew me
Don't say that, Miss Manette, for you would have reclaimed me, if anything could. You will not be the cause of my becoming worse
Since the state of your mind that you describe, is, at all events, attributable to some influence of mine -- this is what I mean, if I can make it plain -- can I use no influence to serve you? Have I no power for good, with you, at all
The utmost good that I am capable of now, Miss Manette, I have come here to realise. Let me carry through the rest of my misdirected life, the remembrance that I opened my heart to you, last of all the world; and that there was something left in me at this time which you could deplore and pity
Which I entreated you to believe, again and again, most fervently, with all my heart, was capable of better things, Mr. Carton
Entreat me to believe it no more, Miss Manette. I have proved myself, and I know better. I distress you; I draw fast to an end. Will you let me believe, when I recall this day, that the last confidence of my life was reposed in your pure and innocent breast, and that it lies there alone, and will be shared by no one
If that will be a consolation to you, yes
Not even by the dearest one ever to be known to you
Mr. Carton
the secret is yours, not mine; and I promise to respect it
Thank you. And again, God bless you
Be under no apprehension, Miss Manette, of my ever resuming this conversation by so much as a passing word. I will never refer to it again. If I were dead, that could not be surer than it is henceforth. In the hour of my death, I shall hold sacred the one good remembrance -- and shall thank and bless you for it -- that my last avowal of myself was made to you, and that my name, and faults, and miseries were gently carried in your heart. May it otherwise be light and happy
Be comforted
I am not worth such feeling, Miss Manette. An hour or two hence, and the low companions and low habits that I scorn but yield to, will render me less worth such tears as those, than any wretch who creeps along the streets. Be comforted! But, within myself, I shall always be, towards you, what I am now, though outwardly I shall be what you have heretofore seen me. The last supplication but one I make to you, is, that you will believe this of me
I will, Mr. Carton
My last supplication of all, is this; and with it, I will relieve you of a visitor with whom I well know you have nothing in unison, and between whom and you there is an impassable space. It is useless to say it, I know, but it rises out of my soul. For you, and for any dear to you, I would do anything. If my career were of that better kind that there was any opportunity or capacity of sacrifice in it, I would embrace any sacrifice for you and for those dear to you. Try to hold me in your mind, at some quiet times, as ardent and sincere in this one thing. The time will come, the time will not be long in coming, when new ties will be formed about you -- ties that will bind you yet more tenderly and strongly to the home you so adorn -- the dearest ties that will ever grace and gladden you. O Miss Manette, when the little picture of a happy father's face looks up in yours, when you see your own bright beauty springing up anew at your feet, think now and then that there is a man who would give his life, to keep a life you love beside you
Farewell
God bless you
Young Jerry
it's a buryin
Hooroar, father
What d'ye mean? What are you hooroaring at? What do you want to conwey to your own father, you young Rip? This boy is a getting too many for _me_
Him and his hooroars! Don't let me hear no more of you, or you shall feel some more of me. D'ye hear
I warn't doing no harm
Drop it then
I won't have none of _your_ no harms. Get a top of that there seat, and look at the crowd
Yah! Spies! Tst! Yaha! Spies
What is it, brother? What's it about
_I_ don't know
Spies! Yaha! Tst! Spies
Who is it
_I_ don't know
Spies! Yaha! Tst, tst! Spi -- ies
Was He a spy
Old Bailey spy
Yaha! Tst! Yah! Old Bailey Spi -- i -- ies
Why, to be sure
I've seen him. Dead, is he
Dead as mutton
and can't be too dead. Have 'em out, there! Spies! Pull 'em out, there! Spies
Jerry
you see that there Cly that day, and you see with your own eyes that he was a young 'un and a straight made 'un
Now, I tell you where it is
If, as a honest tradesman, my wenturs goes wrong to-night, I shall make sure that you've been praying again me, and I shall work you for it just the same as if I seen you do it
Why, you're at it afore my face
I am saying nothing
Well, then; don't meditate nothing. You might as well flop as meditate. You may as well go again me one way as another. Drop it altogether
Yes, Jerry
Yes, Jerry
Ah! It _is_ yes, Jerry. That's about it. You may say yes, Jerry
You and your yes, Jerry
Ah! I think so. I believe you
You are going out to-night
Yes, I am
May I go with you, father
No, you mayn't. I'm a going -- as your mother knows -- a fishing. That's where I'm going to. Going a fishing
Your fishing-rod gets rayther rusty; don't it, father
Never you mind
Shall you bring any fish home, father
If I don't, you'll have short commons, to-morrow
that's questions enough for you; I ain't a going out, till you've been long abed
And mind you
No games to-morrow! If I, as a honest tradesman, succeed in providing a jinte of meat or two, none of your not touching of it, and sticking to bread. If I, as a honest tradesman, am able to provide a little beer, none of your declaring on water. When you go to Rome, do as Rome does. Rome will be a ugly customer to you, if you don't. _I_'m your Rome, you know
With your flying into the face of your own wittles and drink! I don't know how scarce you mayn't make the wittles and drink here, by your flopping tricks and your unfeeling conduct. Look at your boy: he _is_ your'n, ain't he? He's as thin as a lath. Do you call yourself a mother, and not know that a mother's first duty is to blow her boy out
I told you I would
and I did
Jerry, Jerry, Jerry
You oppose yourself to the profit of the business
and me and my partners suffer. You was to honour and obey; why the devil don't you
I try to be a good wife, Jerry
Is it being a good wife to oppose your husband's business? Is it honouring your husband to dishonour his business? Is it obeying your husband to disobey him on the wital subject of his business
You hadn't taken to the dreadful business then, Jerry
It's enough for you
to be the wife of a honest tradesman, and not to occupy your female mind with calculations when he took to his trade or when he didn't. A honouring and obeying wife would let his trade alone altogether. Call yourself a religious woman? If you're a religious woman, give me a irreligious one! You have no more nat'ral sense of duty than the bed of this here Thames river has of a pile, and similarly it must be knocked into you
Father
what's a Resurrection-Man
How should I know
I thought you knowed everything, father
Hem! Well
he's a tradesman
What's his goods, father
His goods
is a branch of Scientific goods
Persons' bodies, ain't it, father
I believe it is something of that sort
Oh, father, I should so like to be a Resurrection-Man when I'm quite growed up
It depends upon how you dewelop your talents. Be careful to dewelop your talents, and never to say no more than you can help to nobody, and there's no telling at the present time what you may not come to be fit for
Jerry, you honest tradesman, there's hopes wot that boy will yet be a blessing to you, and a recompense to you for his mother
Good day, gentlemen
Good day
It is bad weather, gentlemen
My wife
I have travelled certain leagues with this good mender of roads, called Jacques. I met him -- by accident -- a day and half's journey out of Paris. He is a good child, this mender of roads, called Jacques. Give him to drink, my wife
Have you finished your repast, friend
Yes, thank you
Come, then! You shall see the apartment that I told you you could occupy. It will suit you to a marvel
Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques Three! This is the witness encountered by appointment, by me, Jacques Four. He will tell you all. Speak, Jacques Five
Where shall I commence, monsieur
Commence
at the commencement
I saw him then, messieurs
a year ago this running summer, underneath the carriage of the Marquis, hanging by the chain. Behold the manner of it. I leaving my work on the road, the sun going to bed, the carriage of the Marquis slowly ascending the hill, he hanging by the chain -- like this
Never
By his tall figure
When Monsieur the Marquis demands that evening, 'Say, what is he like?' I make response, &bquo;Tall as a spectre
You should have said, short as a dwarf
But what did I know? The deed was not then accomplished, neither did he confide in me. Observe! Under those circumstances even, I do not offer my testimony. Monsieur the Marquis indicates me with his finger, standing near our little fountain, and says, &bquo;To me! Bring that rascal!' My faith, messieurs, I offer nothing
He is right there, Jacques
Go on
Good
The tall man is lost, and he is sought -- how many months? Nine, ten, eleven
No matter, the number
He is well hidden, but at last he is unluckily found. Go on
I am again at work upon the hill-side, and the sun is again about to go to bed. I am collecting my tools to descend to my cottage down in the village below, where it is already dark, when I raise my eyes, and see coming over the hill six soldiers. In the midst of them is a tall man with his arms bound -- tied to his sides -- like this
I stand aside, messieurs, by my heap of stones, to see the soldiers and their prisoner pass (for it is a solitary road, that, where any spectacle is well worth looking at), and at first, as they approach, I see no more than that they are six soldiers with a tall man bound, and that they are almost black to my sight -- except on the side of the sun going to bed, where they have a red edge, messieurs. Also, I see that their long shadows are on the hollow ridge on the opposite side of the road, and are on the hill above it, and are like the shadows of giants. Also, I see that they are covered with dust, and that the dust moves with them as they come, tramp, tramp! But when they advance quite near to me, I recognise the tall man, and he recognises me. Ah, but he would be well content to precipitate himself over the hill-side once again, as on the evening when he and I first encountered, close to the same spot
I do not show the soldiers that I recognise the tall man; he does not show the soldiers that he recognises me; we do it, and we know it, with our eyes. &bquo;Come on!' says the chief of that company, pointing to the village, &bquo;bring him fast to his tomb!' and they bring him faster. I follow. His arms are swelled because of being bound so tight, his wooden shoes are large and clumsy, and he is lame. Because he is lame, and consequently slow, they drive him with their guns -- like this
As they descend the hill like madmen running a race, he falls. They laugh and pick him up again. His face is bleeding and covered with dust, but he cannot touch it; thereupon they laugh again. They bring him into the village; all the village runs to look; they take him past the mill, and up to the prison; all the village sees the prison gate open in the darkness of the night, and swallow him -- like this
Go on, Jacques
All the village
withdraws; all the village whispers by the fountain; all the village sleeps; all the village dreams of that unhappy one, within the locks and bars of the prison on the crag, and never to come out of it, except to perish. In the morning, with my tools upon my shoulder, eating my morsel of black bread as I go, I make a circuit by the prison, on my way to my work. There I see him, high up, behind the bars of a lofty iron cage, bloody and dusty as last night, looking through. He has no hand free, to wave to me; I dare not call to him; he regards me like a dead man
Go on, Jacques
He remains up there in his iron cage some days. The village looks at him by stealth, for it is afraid. But it always looks up, from a distance, at the prison on the crag; and in the evening, when the work of the day is achieved and it assembles to gossip at the fountain, all faces are turned towards the prison. Formerly, they were turned towards the posting-house; now, they are turned towards the prison. They whisper at the fountain, that although condemned to death he will not be executed; they say that petitions have been presented in Paris, showing that he was enraged and made mad by the death of his child; they say that a petition has been presented to the King himself. What do I know? It is possible. Perhaps yes, perhaps no
Listen then, Jacques
Know that a petition was presented to the King and Queen. All here, yourself excepted, saw the King take it, in his carriage in the street, sitting beside the Queen. It is Defarge whom you see here, who, at the hazard of his life, darted out before the horses, with the petition in his hand
And once again listen, Jacques
the guard, horse and foot, surrounded the petitioner, and struck him blows. You hear
I hear, messieurs
Go on then
Again; on the other hand, they whisper at the fountain
that he is brought down into our country to be executed on the spot, and that he will very certainly be executed. They even whisper that because he has slain Monseigneur, and because Monseigneur was the father of his tenants -- serfs -- what you will -- he will be executed as a parricide. One old man says at the fountain, that his right hand, armed with the knife, will be burnt off before his face; that, into wounds which will be made in his arms, his breast, and his legs, there will be poured boiling oil, melted lead, hot resin, wax, and sulphur; finally, that he will be torn limb from limb by four strong horses. That old man says, all this was actually done to a prisoner who made an attempt on the life of the late King, Louis Fifteen. But how do I know if he lies? I am not a scholar
Listen once again then, Jacques
The name of that prisoner was Damiens, and it was all done in open day, in the open streets of this city of Paris; and nothing was more noticed in the vast concourse that saw it done, than the crowd of ladies of quality and fashion, who were full of eager attention to the last -- to the last, Jacques, prolonged until nightfall, when he had lost two legs and an arm, and still breathed! And it was done -- why, how old are you
Thirty-five
It was done when you were more than ten years old; you might have seen it
Enough
Long live the Devil! Go on
Well! Some whisper this, some whisper that; they speak of nothing else; even the fountain appears to fall to that tune. At length, on Sunday night when all the village is asleep, come soldiers, winding down from the prison, and their guns ring on the stones of the little street. Workmen dig, workmen hammer, soldiers laugh and sing; in the morning, by the fountain, there is raised a gallows forty feet high, poisoning the water
All work is stopped, all assemble there, nobody leads the cows out, the cows are there with the rest. At midday, the roll of drums. Soldiers have marched into the prison in the night, and he is in the midst of many soldiers. He is bound as before, and in his mouth there is a gag -- tied so, with a tight string, making him look almost as if he laughed
On the top of the gallows is fixed the knife, blade upwards, with its point in the air. He is hanged there forty feet high -- and is left hanging, poisoning the water
It is frightful, messieurs. How can the women and the children draw water! Who can gossip of an evening, under that shadow! Under it, have I said? When I left the village, Monday evening as the sun was going to bed, and looked back from the hill, the shadow struck across the church, across the mill, across the prison -- seemed to strike across the earth, messieurs, to where the sky rests upon it
That's all, messieurs. I left at sunset (as I had been warned to do), and I walked on, that night and half next day, until I met (as I was warned I should) this comrade. With him, I came on, now riding and now walking, through the rest of yesterday and through last night. And here you see me
Good! You have acted and recounted faithfully. Will you wait for us a little, outside the door
Very willingly
How say you, Jacques
To be registered
To be registered, as doomed to destruction
Magnificent
The chateau, and all the race
The chateau and all the race
Extermination
Magnificent
Are you sure
that no embarrassment can arise from our manner of keeping the register? Without doubt it is safe, for no one beyond ourselves can decipher it; but shall we always be able to decipher it -- or, I ought to say, will she
Jacques
if madame my wife undertook to keep the register in her memory alone, she would not lose a word of it -- not a syllable of it. Knitted, in her own stitches and her own symbols, it will always be as plain to her as the sun. Confide in Madame Defarge. It would be easier for the weakest poltroon that lives, to erase himself from existence, than to erase one letter of his name or crimes from the knitted register of Madame Defarge
Is this rustic to be sent back soon? I hope so. He is very simple; is he not a little dangerous
He knows nothing
at least nothing more than would easily elevate himself to a gallows of the same height. I charge myself with him; let him remain with me; I will take care of him, and set him on his road. He wishes to see the fine world -- the King, the Queen, and Court; let him see them on Sunday
What
Is it a good sign, that he wishes to see Royalty and Nobility
Jacques
judiciously show a cat milk, if you wish her to thirst for it. Judiciously show a dog his natural prey, if you wish him to bring it down one day
You work hard, madame
Yes
I have a good deal to do
What do you make, madame
Many things
For instance
For instance
shrouds
Bravo
you are a good boy
You are the fellow we want
you make these fools believe that it will last for ever. Then, they are the more insolent, and it is the nearer ended
Hey
that's true
These fools know nothing. While they despise your breath, and would stop it for ever and ever, in you or in a hundred like you rather than in one of their own horses or dogs, they only know what your breath tells them. Let it deceive them, then, a little longer; it cannot deceive them too much
As to you
you would shout and shed tears for anything, if it made a show and a noise. Say! Would you not
Truly, madame, I think so. For the moment
If you were shown a great heap of dolls, and were set upon them to pluck them to pieces and despoil them for your own advantage, you would pick out the richest and gayest. Say! Would you not
Truly yes, madame
Yes. And if you were shown a flock of birds, unable to fly, and were set upon them to strip them of their feathers for your own advantage, you would set upon the birds of the finest feathers; would you not
It is true, madame
You have seen both dolls and birds to-day
now, go home
Say then, my friend; what did Jacques of the police tell thee
Very little to-night, but all he knows. There is another spy commissioned for our quarter. There may be many more, for all that he can say, but he knows of one
Eh well
It is necessary to register him. How do they call that man
He is English
So much the better. His name
Barsad
Barsad
Good. Christian name
John
John Barsad
Good. His appearance; is it known
Age, about forty years; height, about five feet nine; black hair; complexion dark; generally, rather handsome visage; eyes dark, face thin, long, and sallow; nose aquiline, but not straight, having a peculiar inclination towards the left cheek; expression, therefore, sinister
Eh my faith. It is a portrait
He shall be registered to-morrow
You are fatigued
There are only the usual odours
I am a little tired
You are a little depressed, too
Oh, the men, the men
But my dear
But my dear
but my dear! You are faint of heart to-night, my dear
Well, then
it _is_ a long time
It is a long time
and when is it not a long time? Vengeance and retribution require a long time; it is the rule
It does not take a long time to strike a man with Lightning
How long
does it take to make and store the lightning? Tell me
It does not take a long time
for an earthquake to swallow a town. Eh well! Tell me how long it takes to prepare the earthquake
A long time, I suppose
But when it is ready, it takes place, and grinds to pieces everything before it. In the meantime, it is always preparing, though it is not seen or heard. That is your consolation. Keep it
I tell thee
that although it is a long time on the road, it is on the road and coming. I tell thee it never retreats, and never stops. I tell thee it is always advancing. Look around and consider the lives of all the world that we know, consider the faces of all the world that we know, consider the rage and discontent to which the Jacquerie addresses itself with more and more of certainty every hour. Can such things last? Bah! I mock you
My brave wife
I do not question all this. But it has lasted a long time, and it is possible -- you know well, my wife, it is possible -- that it may not come, during our lives
Eh well! How then
Well
We shall not see the triumph
We shall have helped it
Nothing that we do, is done in vain. I believe, with all my soul, that we shall see the triumph. But even if not, even if I knew certainly not, show me the neck of an aristocrat and tyrant, and still I would
Hold
I too, my dear, will stop at nothing
Yes! But it is your weakness that you sometimes need to see your victim and your opportunity, to sustain you. Sustain yourself without that. When the time comes, let loose a tiger and a devil; but wait for the time with the tiger and the devil chained -- not shown -- yet always ready
Good day, madame
Good day, monsieur
Hah! Good day, age about forty, height about five feet nine, black hair, generally rather handsome visage, complexion dark, eyes dark, thin, long and sallow face, aquiline nose but not straight, having a peculiar inclination towards the left cheek which imparts a sinister expression! Good day, one and all
Have the goodness to give me a little glass of old cognac, and a mouthful of cool fresh water, madame
Marvellous cognac this, madame
You knit with great skill, madame
I am accustomed to it
A pretty pattern too
_You_ think so
Decidedly. May one ask what it is for
Pastime
Not for use
That depends. I may find a use for it one day. If I do -- Well
I'll use it
_John_
Stay long enough, and I shall knit &bquo;BARSAD' before you go
You have a husband, madame
I have
Children
No children
Business seems bad
Business is very bad; the people are so poor
Ah, the unfortunate, miserable people! So oppressed, too -- as you say
As _you_ say
Pardon me; certainly it was I who said so, but you naturally think so. Of course
_I_ think
I and my husband have enough to do to keep this wine-shop open, without thinking. All we think, here, is how to live. That is the subject _we_ think of, and it gives us, from morning to night, enough to think about, without embarrassing our heads concerning others. _I_ think for others? No, no
A bad business this, madame, of Gaspard's execution. Ah! the poor Gaspard
My faith
if people use knives for such purposes, they have to pay for it. He knew beforehand what the price of his luxury was; he has paid the price
I believe
I believe there is much compassion and anger in this neighbourhood, touching the poor fellow? Between ourselves
Is there
Is there not
Here is my husband
Good day, Jacques
Good day, Jacques
You deceive yourself, monsieur
You mistake me for another. That is not my name. I am Ernest Defarge
It is all the same
good day
Good day
I was saying to madame, with whom I had the pleasure of chatting when you entered, that they tell me there is -- and no wonder!-- much sympathy and anger in Saint Antoine, touching the unhappy fate of poor Gaspard
No one has told me so
I know nothing of it
You seem to know this quarter well; that is to say, better than I do
Not at all, but I hope to know it better. I am so profoundly interested in its miserable inhabitants
Hah
The pleasure of conversing with you, Monsieur Defarge, recalls to me
that I have the honour of cherishing some interesting associations with your name
Indeed
Yes, indeed. When Doctor Manette was released, you, his old domestic, had the charge of him, I know. He was delivered to you. You see I am informed of the circumstances
Such is the fact, certainly
It was to you
that his daughter came; and it was from your care that his daughter took him, accompanied by a neat brown monsieur; how is he called?-- in a little wig -- Lorry -- of the bank of Tellson and Company -- over to England
Such is the fact
Very interesting remembrances
I have known Doctor Manette and his daughter, in England
Yes
You don't hear much about them now
No
In effect
we never hear about them. We received the news of their safe arrival, and perhaps another letter, or perhaps two; but, since then, they have gradually taken their road in life -- we, ours -- and we have held no correspondence
Perfectly so, madame
She is going to be married
Going
She was pretty enough to have been married long ago. You English are cold, it seems to me
Oh! You know I am English
I perceive your tongue is
and what the tongue is, I suppose the man is
Yes, Miss Manette is going to be married. But not to an Englishman; to one who, like herself, is French by birth. And speaking of Gaspard (ah, poor Gaspard! It was cruel, cruel!), it is a curious thing that she is going to marry the nephew of Monsieur the Marquis, for whom Gaspard was exalted to that height of so many feet; in other words, the present Marquis. But he lives unknown in England, he is no Marquis there; he is Mr. Charles Darnay. D'Aulnais is the name of his mother's family
Can it be true
what he has said of Ma'amselle Manette
As he has said it
it is probably false. But it may be true
If it is
If it is
And if it does come, while we live to see it triumph -- I hope, for her sake, Destiny will keep her husband out of France
Her husband's destiny
will take him where he is to go, and will lead him to the end that is to end him. That is all I know
But it is very strange -- now, at least, is it not very strange
that, after all our sympathy for Monsieur her father, and herself, her husband's name should be proscribed under your hand at this moment, by the side of that infernal dog's who has just left us
Stranger things than that will happen when it does come
I have them both here, of a certainty; and they are both here for their merits; that is enough
A great woman
a strong woman, a grand woman, a frightfully grand woman
You are happy, my dear father
Quite, my child
And I am very happy to-night, dear father. I am deeply happy in the love that Heaven has so blessed -- my love for Charles, and Charles's love for me. But, if my life were not to be still consecrated to you, or if my marriage were so arranged as that it would part us, even by the length of a few of these streets, I should be more unhappy and self-reproachful now than I can tell you. Even as it is
Dearest dear! Can you tell me, this last time, that you feel quite, quite sure, no new affections of mine, and no new duties of mine, will ever interpose between us? _I_ know it well, but do you know it? In your own heart, do you feel quite certain
Quite sure, my darling! More than that
my future is far brighter, Lucie, seen through your marriage, than it could have been -- nay, than it ever was -- without it
If I could hope _that_, my father
Believe it, love! Indeed it is so. Consider how natural and how plain it is, my dear, that it should be so. You, devoted and young, cannot fully appreciate the anxiety I have felt that your life should not be wasted
wasted, my child -- should not be wasted, struck aside from the natural order of things -- for my sake. Your unselfishness cannot entirely comprehend how much my mind has gone on this; but, only ask yourself, how could my happiness be perfect, while yours was incomplete
If I had never seen Charles, my father, I should have been quite happy with you
My child, you did see him, and it is Charles. If it had not been Charles, it would have been another. Or, if it had been no other, I should have been the cause, and then the dark part of my life would have cast its shadow beyond myself, and would have fallen on you
See
I have looked at her from my prison-window, when I could not bear her light. I have looked at her when it has been such torture to me to think of her shining upon what I had lost, that I have beaten my head against my prison-walls. I have looked at her, in a state so dun and lethargic, that I have thought of nothing but the number of horizontal lines I could draw across her at the full, and the number of perpendicular lines with which I could intersect them
It was twenty either way, I remember, and the twentieth was difficult to squeeze in
I have looked at her, speculating thousands of times upon the unborn child from whom I had been rent. Whether it was alive. Whether it had been born alive, or the poor mother's shock had killed it. Whether it was a son who would some day avenge his father. (There was a time in my imprisonment, when my desire for vengeance was unbearable.) Whether it was a son who would never know his father's story; who might even live to weigh the possibility of his father's having disappeared of his own will and act. Whether it was a daughter who would grow to be a woman
I have pictured my daughter, to myself, as perfectly forgetful of me -- rather, altogether ignorant of me, and unconscious of me. I have cast up the years of her age, year after year. I have seen her married to a man who knew nothing of my fate. I have altogether perished from the remembrance of the living, and in the next generation my place was a blank
My father! Even to hear that you had such thoughts of a daughter who never existed, strikes to my heart as if I had been that child
You, Lucie? It is out of the Consolation and restoration you have brought to me, that these remembrances arise, and pass between us and the moon on this last night.-- What did I say just now
She knew nothing of you. She cared nothing for you
So! But on other moonlight nights, when the sadness and the silence have touched me in a different way -- have affected me with something as like a sorrowful sense of peace, as any emotion that had pain for its foundations could -- I have imagined her as coming to me in my cell, and leading me out into the freedom beyond the fortress. I have seen her image in the moonlight often, as I now see you; except that I never held her in my arms; it stood between the little grated window and the door. But, you understand that that was not the child I am speaking of
The figure was not; the -- the -- image; the fancy
No. That was another thing. It stood before my disturbed sense of sight, but it never moved. The phantom that my mind pursued, was another and more real child. Of her outward appearance I know no more than that she was like her mother. The other had that likeness too -- as you have -- but was not the same. Can you follow me, Lucie? Hardly, I think? I doubt you must have been a solitary prisoner to understand these perplexed distinctions
In that more peaceful state, I have imagined her, in the moonlight, coming to me and taking me out to show me that the home of her married life was full of her loving remembrance of her lost father. My picture was in her room, and I was in her prayers. Her life was active, cheerful, useful; but my poor history pervaded it all
I was that child, my father, I was not half so good, but in my love that was I
And she showed me her children
and they had heard of me, and had been taught to pity me. When they passed a prison of the State, they kept far from its frowning walls, and looked up at its bars, and spoke in whispers. She could never deliver me; I imagined that she always brought me back after showing me such things. But then, blessed with the relief of tears, I fell upon my knees, and blessed her
I am that child, I hope, my father. O my dear, my dear, will you bless me as fervently to-morrow
Lucie, I recall these old troubles in the reason that I have to-night for loving you better than words can tell, and thanking God for my great happiness. My thoughts, when they were wildest, never rose near the happiness that I have known with you, and that we have before us
And so
and so it was for this, my sweet Lucie, that I brought you across the Channel, such a baby! Lord bless me! How little I thought what I was doing! How lightly I valued the obligation I was conferring on my friend Mr. Charles
You didn't mean it
and therefore how could you know it? Nonsense
Really? Well; but don't cry
I am not crying
_you_ are
I, my Pross
You were, just now; I saw you do it, and I don't wonder at it. Such a present of plate as you have made 'em, is enough to bring tears into anybody's eyes. There's not a fork or a spoon in the collection
that I didn't cry over, last night after the box came, till I couldn't see it
I am highly gratified
though, upon my honour, I had no intention of rendering those trifling articles of remembrance invisible to any one. Dear me! This is an occasion that makes a man speculate on all he has lost. Dear, dear, dear! To think that there might have been a Mrs. Lorry, any time these fifty years almost
Not at all
You think there never might have been a Mrs. Lorry
Pooh
you were a bachelor in your cradle
Well
that seems probable, too
And you were cut out for a bachelor
before you were put in your cradle
Then, I think
that I was very unhandsomely dealt with, and that I ought to have had a voice in the selection of my pattern. Enough! Now, my dear Lucie
I hear them moving in the next room, and Miss Pross and I, as two formal folks of business, are anxious not to lose the final opportunity of saying something to you that you wish to hear. You leave your good father, my dear, in hands as earnest and as loving as your own; he shall be taken every conceivable care of; during the next fortnight, while you are in Warwickshire and thereabouts, even Tellson's shall go to the wall (comparatively speaking) before him. And when, at the fortnight's end, he comes to join you and your beloved husband, on your other fortnight's trip in Wales, you shall say that we have sent him to you in the best health and in the happiest frame. Now, I hear Somebody's step coming to the door. Let me kiss my dear girl with an old-fashioned bachelor blessing, before Somebody comes to claim his own
Take her, Charles! She is yours
I think
I think we had best not speak to him just now, or at all disturb him. I must look in at Tellson's; so I will go there at once and come back presently. Then, we will take him a ride into the country, and dine there, and all will be well
Good God
What's that
O me, O me! All is lost
What is to be told to Ladybird? He doesn't know me, and is making shoes
Doctor Manette. My dear friend, Doctor Manette
A young lady's walking shoe
It ought to have been finished long ago. Let it be
But, Doctor Manette. Look at me
You know me, my dear friend? Think again. This is not your proper occupation. Think, dear friend
Will you go out
Out
Yes; for a walk with me. Why not
Why not
Dear Doctor, will you go out
Out
Yes; for a walk with me. Why not
My dear Manette, I am anxious to have your opinion, in confidence, on a very curious case in which I am deeply interested; that is to say, it is very curious to me; perhaps, to your better information it may be less so
Doctor Manette
the case is the case of a particularly dear friend of mine. Pray give your mind to it, and advise me well for his sake -- and above all, for his daughter's -- his daughter's, my dear Manette
If I understand
some mental shock
Yes
Be explicit
Spare no detail
My dear Manette, it is the case of an old and a prolonged shock, of great acuteness and severity to the affections, the feelings, the -- the -- as you express it -- the mind. The mind. It is the case of a shock under which the sufferer was borne down, one cannot say for how long, because I believe he cannot calculate the time himself, and there are no other means of getting at it. It is the case of a shock from which the sufferer recovered, by a process that he cannot trace himself -- as I once heard him publicly relate in a striking manner. It is the case of a shock from which he has recovered, so completely, as to be a highly intelligent man, capable of close application of mind, and great exertion of body, and of constantly making fresh additions to his stock of knowledge, which was already very large. But, unfortunately, there has been
a slight relapse
Of how long duration
Nine days and nights
How did it show itself? I infer
in the resumption of some old pursuit connected with the shock
That is the fact
Now, did you ever see him
engaged in that pursuit originally
Once
And when the relapse fell on him, was he in most respects -- or in all respects -- as he was then
I think in all respects
You spoke of his daughter. Does his daughter know of the relapse
No. It has been kept from her, and I hope will always be kept from her. It is known only to myself, and to one other who may be trusted
That was very kind. That was very thoughtful
Now, my dear Manette
But I don't know how to originate, in such a case. If your sagacity, knowledge, and experience, could put me on the right track, I might be able to do so much; unenlightened and undirected, I can do so little. Pray discuss it with me; pray enable me to see it a little more clearly, and teach me how to be a little more useful
I think it probable
that the relapse you have described, my dear friend, was not quite unforeseen by its subject
Was it dreaded by him
Very much
You have no idea how such an apprehension weighs on the sufferer's mind, and how difficult -- how almost impossible -- it is, for him to force himself to utter a word upon the topic that oppresses him
Would he
be sensibly relieved if he could prevail upon himself to impart that secret brooding to any one, when it is on him
I think so. But it is, as I have told you, next to impossible. I even believe it -- in some cases -- to be quite impossible
Now
to what would you refer this attack
I believe
that there had been a strong and extraordinary revival of the train of thought and remembrance that was the first cause of the malady. Some intense associations of a most distressing nature were vividly recalled, I think. It is probable that there had long been a dread lurking in his mind, that those associations would be recalled -- say, under certain circumstances -- say, on a particular occasion. He tried to prepare himself in vain; perhaps the effort to prepare himself made him less able to bear it
Would he remember what took place in the relapse
Not at all
Now, as to the future
As to the future
I should have great hope. As it pleased Heaven in its mercy to restore him so soon, I should have great hope. He, yielding under the pressure of a complicated something, long dreaded and long vaguely foreseen and contended against, and recovering after the cloud had burst and passed, I should hope that the worst was over
Well, well! That's good comfort. I am thankful
I am thankful
There are two other points
on which I am anxious to be instructed. I may go on
You cannot do your friend a better service
To the first, then. He is of a studious habit, and unusually energetic; he applies himself with great ardour to the acquisition of professional knowledge, to the conducting of experiments, to many things. Now, does he do too much
I think not. It may be the character of his mind, to be always in singular need of occupation. That may be, in part, natural to it; in part, the result of affliction. The less it was occupied with healthy things, the more it would be in danger of turning in the unhealthy direction. He may have observed himself, and made the discovery
You are sure that he is not under too great a strain
I think I am quite sure of it
My dear Manette, if he were overworked now
My dear Lorry, I doubt if that could easily be. There has been a violent stress in one direction, and it needs a counterweight
Excuse me, as a persistent man of business. Assuming for a moment, that he _was_ overworked; it would show itself in some renewal of this disorder
I do not think so. I do not think
that anything but the one train of association would renew it. I think that, henceforth, nothing but some extraordinary jarring of that chord could renew it. After what has happened, and after his recovery, I find it difficult to imagine any such violent sounding of that string again. I trust, and I almost believe, that the circumstances likely to renew it are exhausted
The occupation resumed under the influence of this passing affliction so happily recovered from
we will call -- Blacksmith's work, Blacksmith's work. We will say, to put a case and for the sake of illustration, that he had been used, in his bad time, to work at a little forge. We will say that he was unexpectedly found at his forge again. Is it not a pity that he should keep it by him
He has always kept it by him
Now, would it not be better that he should let it go
You do not find it easy to advise me
I quite understand it to be a nice question. And yet I think
You see
it is very hard to explain, consistently, the innermost workings of this poor man's mind. He once yearned so frightfully for that occupation, and it was so welcome when it came; no doubt it relieved his pain so much, by substituting the perplexity of the fingers for the perplexity of the brain, and by substituting, as he became more practised, the ingenuity of the hands, for the ingenuity of the mental torture; that he has never been able to bear the thought of putting it quite out of his reach. Even now, when I believe he is more hopeful of himself than he has ever been, and even speaks of himself with a kind of confidence, the idea that he might need that old employment, and not find it, gives him a sudden sense of terror, like that which one may fancy strikes to the heart of a lost child
But may not -- mind! I ask for information, as a plodding man of business who only deals with such material objects as guineas, shillings, and bank-notes -- may not the retention of the thing involve the retention of the idea? If the thing were gone, my dear Manette, might not the fear go with it? In short, is it not a concession to the misgiving, to keep the forge
You see, too
it is such an old companion
I would not keep it
I would recommend him to sacrifice it. I only want your authority. I am sure it does no good. Come! Give me your authority, like a dear good man. For his daughter's sake, my dear Manette
In her name, then, let it be done; I sanction it. But, I would not take it away while he was present. Let it be removed when he is not there; let him miss his old companion after an absence
Mr. Darnay
I wish we might be friends
We are already friends, I hope
You are good enough to say so, as a fashion of speech; but, I don't mean any fashion of speech. Indeed, when I say I wish we might be friends, I scarcely mean quite that, either
Upon my life
I find that easier to comprehend in my own mind, than to convey to yours. However, let me try. You remember a certain famous occasion when I was more drunk than -- than usual
I remember a certain famous occasion when you forced me to confess that you had been drinking
I remember it too. The curse of those occasions is heavy upon me, for I always remember them. I hope it may be taken into account one day, when all days are at an end for me! Don't be alarmed; I am not going to preach
I am not at all alarmed. Earnestness in you, is anything but alarming to me
Ah
On the drunken occasion in question (one of a large number, as you know), I was insufferable about liking you, and not liking you. I wish you would forget it
I forgot it long ago
Fashion of speech again! But, Mr. Darnay, oblivion is not so easy to me, as you represent it to be to you. I have by no means forgotten it, and a light answer does not help me to forget it
If it was a light answer
I beg your forgiveness for it. I had no other object than to turn a slight thing, which, to my surprise, seems to trouble you too much, aside. I declare to you, on the faith of a gentleman, that I have long dismissed it from my mind. Good Heaven, what was there to dismiss! Have I had nothing more important to remember, in the great service you rendered me that day
As to the great service
I am bound to avow to you, when you speak of it in that way, that it was mere professional claptrap, I don't know that I cared what became of you, when I rendered it.-- Mind! I say when I rendered it; I am speaking of the past
You make light of the obligation
but I will not quarrel with _your_ light answer
Genuine truth, Mr. Darnay, trust me! I have gone aside from my purpose; I was speaking about our being friends. Now, you know me; you know I am incapable of all the higher and better flights of men. If you doubt it, ask Stryver, and he'll tell you so
I prefer to form my own opinion, without the aid of his
Well! At any rate you know me as a dissolute dog, who has never done any good, and never will
I don't know that you &bquo;never will
But I do, and you must take my word for it. Well! If you could endure to have such a worthless fellow, and a fellow of such indifferent reputation, coming and going at odd times, I should ask that I might be permitted to come and go as a privileged person here; that I might be regarded as an useless (and I would add, if it were not for the resemblance I detected between you and me, an unornamental) piece of furniture, tolerated for its old service, and taken no notice of. I doubt if I should abuse the permission. It is a hundred to one if I should avail myself of it four times in a year. It would satisfy me, I dare say, to know that I had it
Will you try
That is another way of saying that I am placed on the footing I have indicated. I thank you, Darnay. I may use that freedom with your name
I think so, Carton, by this time
We are thoughtful to-night
Yes, dearest Charles
we are rather thoughtful to-night, for we have something on our mind to-night
What is it, my Lucie
Will you promise not to press one question on me, if I beg you not to ask it
Will I promise? What will I not promise to my Love
I think, Charles, poor Mr. Carton deserves more consideration and respect than you expressed for him to-night
Indeed, my own? Why so
That is what you are not to ask me. But I think -- I know -- he does
If you know it, it is enough. What would you have me do, my Life
I would ask you, dearest, to be very generous with him always, and very lenient on his faults when he is not by. I would ask you to believe that he has a heart he very, very seldom reveals, and that there are deep wounds in it. My dear, I have seen it bleeding
It is a painful reflection to me
that I should have done him any wrong. I never thought this of him
My husband, it is so. I fear he is not to be reclaimed; there is scarcely a hope that anything in his character or fortunes is reparable now. But, I am sure that he is capable of good things, gentle things, even magnanimous things
And, O my dearest Love
remember how strong we are in our happiness, and how weak he is in his misery
I will always remember it, dear Heart! I will remember it as long as I live
God bless her for her sweet compassion
Dear papa and mamma, I am very sorry to leave you both, and to leave my pretty sister; but I am called, and I must go
Poor Carton! Kiss him for me
Halloa! here are three lumps of bread-and- cheese towards your matrimonial picnic, Darnay
not to be caught
What is the magic secret, my darling, of your being everything to all of us, as if there were only one of us, yet never seeming to be hurried, or to have too much to do
I began to think
that I should have to pass the night at Tellson's. We have been so full of business all day, that we have not known what to do first, or which way to turn. There is such an uneasiness in Paris, that we have actually a run of confidence upon us! Our customers over there, seem not to be able to confide their property to us fast enough. There is positively a mania among some of them for sending it to England
That has a bad look
A bad look, you say, my dear Darnay? Yes, but we don't know what reason there is in it. People are so unreasonable! Some of us at Tellson's are getting old, and we really can't be troubled out of the ordinary course without due occasion
Still
you know how gloomy and threatening the sky is
I know that, to be sure
but I am determined to be peevish after my long day's botheration. Where is Manette
Here he is
I am quite glad you are at home; for these hurries and forebodings by which I have been surrounded all day long, have made me nervous without reason. You are not going out, I hope
No; I am going to play backgammon with you, if you like
I don't think I do like, if I may speak my mind. I am not fit to be pitted against you to-night. Is the teaboard still there, Lucie? I can't see
Of course, it has been kept for you
Thank ye, my dear. The precious child is safe in bed
And sleeping soundly
That's right; all safe and well! I don't know why anything should be otherwise than safe and well here, thank God; but I have been so put out all day, and I am not as young as I was! My tea, my dear! Thank ye. Now, come and take your place in the circle, and let us sit quiet, and hear the echoes about which you have your theory
Not a theory; it was a fancy
A fancy, then, my wise pet
They are very numerous and very loud, though, are they not? Only hear them
Keep near to me, Jacques Three
and do you, Jacques One and Two, separate and put yourselves at the head of as many of these patriots as you can. Where is my wife
Eh, well! Here you see me
Where do you go, my wife
I go
with you at present. You shall see me at the head of women, by-and-bye
Come, then
Patriots and friends, we are ready! The Bastille
Work, comrades all, work! Work, Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques One Thousand, Jacques Two Thousand, Jacques Five-and-Twenty Thousand; in the name of all the Angels or the Devils -- which you prefer -- work
To me, women
What! We can kill as well as the men when the place is taken
The Prisoners
The Records
The secret cells
The instruments of torture
The Prisoners
The Prisoners
Show me the North Tower
Quick
I will faithfully
if you will come with me. But there is no one there
What is the meaning of One Hundred and Five, North Tower
Quick
The meaning, monsieur
Does it mean a captive, or a place of captivity? Or do you mean that I shall strike you dead
Kill him
Monsieur, it is a cell
Show it me
Pass this way, then
One hundred and five, North Tower
Pass that torch slowly along these walls, that I may see them
Stop!-- Look here, Jacques
A. M
Alexandre Manette
And here he wrote &bquo;a poor physician.' And it was he, without doubt, who scratched a calendar on this stone. What is that in your hand? A crowbar? Give it me
Hold the light higher
Look among those fragments with care, Jacques. And see! Here is my knife
rip open that bed, and search the straw. Hold the light higher, you
Nothing in the wood, and nothing in the straw, Jacques
Nothing
Let us collect them together, in the middle of the cell. So! Light them, you
See, there is my husband
See Defarge
Lower the lamp yonder
here is one of his soldiers to be left on guard
THOU DIDST IT
I know how hard it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to support life in myself; but do you know how easy it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to destroy life in you
Hark
Listen, then! Who comes
It is Defarge
Silence, patriots
Listen, everywhere
Listen to him
Say then, my husband. What is it
News from the other world
How, then
The other world
Does everybody here recall old Foulon, who told the famished people that they might eat grass, and who died, and went to Hell
Everybody
The news is of him. He is among us
Among us
And dead
Not dead! He feared us so much -- and with reason -- that he caused himself to be represented as dead, and had a grand mock-funeral. But they have found him alive, hiding in the country, and have brought him in. I have seen him but now, on his way to the Hotel de Ville, a prisoner. I have said that he had reason to fear us. Say all! _Had_ he reason
Patriots
are we ready
See
See the old villain bound with ropes. That was well done to tie a bunch of grass upon his back. Ha, ha! That was well done. Let him eat it now
Bring him out! Bring him to the lamp
At last it is come, my dear
Eh well
Almost
How goes it, Jacques
All well, Jacques
Touch then
No dinner
Nothing but supper now
It is the fashion
I meet no dinner anywhere
Touch then
To-night
To-night
Where
Here
Show me
See
You go down here, and straight through the street, and past the fountain
To the Devil with all that
_I_ go through no streets and past no fountains. Well
Well! About two leagues beyond the summit of that hill above the village
Good. When do you cease to work
At sunset
Will you wake me, before departing? I have walked two nights without resting. Let me finish my pipe, and I shall sleep like a child. Will you wake me
Surely
Good
Two leagues beyond the summit of the hill
About
About. Good
Help, Gabelle! Help, every one
It must be forty feet high
Help, gentlemen -- officers! The chateau is on fire; valuable objects may be saved from the flames by timely aid! Help, help
It must burn
suspended
But, although you are the youngest man that ever lived
I must still suggest to you
I understand. That I am too old
Unsettled weather, a long journey, uncertain means of travelling, a disorganised country, a city that may not be even safe for you
My dear Charles
you touch some of the reasons for my going: not for my staying away. It is safe enough for me; nobody will care to interfere with an old fellow of hard upon fourscore when there are so many people there much better worth interfering with. As to its being a disorganised city, if it were not a disorganised city there would be no occasion to send somebody from our House here to our House there, who knows the city and the business, of old, and is in Tellson's confidence. As to the uncertain travelling, the long journey, and the winter weather, if I were not prepared to submit myself to a few inconveniences for the sake of Tellson's, after all these years, who ought to be
I wish I were going myself
Indeed! You are a pretty fellow to object and advise
You wish you were going yourself? And you a Frenchman born? You are a wise counsellor
My dear Mr. Lorry, it is because I am a Frenchman born, that the thought (which I did not mean to utter here, however) has passed through my mind often. One cannot help thinking, having had some sympathy for the miserable people, and having abandoned something to them
that one might be listened to, and might have the power to persuade to some restraint. Only last night, after you had left us, when I was talking to Lucie
When you were talking to Lucie
Yes. I wonder you are not ashamed to mention the name of Lucie! Wishing you were going to France at this time of day
However, I am not going
It is more to the purpose that you say you are
And I am, in plain reality. The truth is, my dear Charles
you can have no conception of the difficulty with which our business is transacted, and of the peril in which our books and papers over yonder are involved. The Lord above knows what the compromising consequences would be to numbers of people, if some of our documents were seized or destroyed; and they might be, at any time, you know, for who can say that Paris is not set afire to-day, or sacked to-morrow! Now, a judicious selection from these with the least possible delay, and the burying of them, or otherwise getting of them out of harm's way, is within the power (without loss of precious time) of scarcely any one but myself, if any one. And shall I hang back, when Tellson's knows this and says this -- Tellson's, whose bread I have eaten these sixty years -- because I am a little stiff about the joints? Why, I am a boy, sir, to half a dozen old codgers here
How I admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit, Mr. Lorry
Tut! Nonsense, sir!-- And, my dear Charles
you are to remember, that getting things out of Paris at this present time, no matter what things, is next to an impossibility. Papers and precious matters were this very day brought to us here (I speak in strict confidence; it is not business-like to whisper it, even to you), by the strangest bearers you can imagine, every one of whom had his head hanging on by a single hair as he passed the Barriers. At another time, our parcels would come and go, as easily as in business-like Old England; but now, everything is stopped
And do you really go to-night
I really go to-night, for the case has become too pressing to admit of delay
And do you take no one with you
All sorts of people have been proposed to me, but I will have nothing to say to any of them. I intend to take Jerry. Jerry has been my bodyguard on Sunday nights for a long time past and I am used to him. Nobody will suspect Jerry of being anything but an English bull-dog, or of having any design in his head but to fly at anybody who touches his master
I must say again that I heartily admire your gallantry and youthfulness
I must say again, nonsense, nonsense! When I have executed this little commission, I shall, perhaps, accept Tellson's proposal to retire and live at my ease. Time enough, then, to think about growing old
Very pressing. To Monsieur heretofore the Marquis St. Evremonde, of France. Confided to the cares of Messrs. Tellson and Co., Bankers, London, England
No
I have referred it, I think, to everybody now here, and no one can tell me where this gentleman is to be found
Nephew, I believe -- but in any case degenerate successor -- of the polished Marquis who was murdered
Happy to say, I never knew him
A craven who abandoned his post
some years ago
Infected with the new doctrines
set himself in opposition to the last Marquis, abandoned the estates when he inherited them, and left them to the ruffian herd. They will recompense him now, I hope, as he deserves
Hey
Did he though? Is that the sort of fellow? Let us look at his infamous name. D -- n the fellow
I know the fellow
Do you, by Jupiter
I am sorry for it
Why
Why, Mr. Darnay? D'ye hear what he did? Don't ask, why, in these times
But I do ask why
Then I tell you again, Mr. Darnay, I am sorry for it. I am sorry to hear you putting any such extraordinary questions. Here is a fellow, who, infected by the most pestilent and blasphemous code of devilry that ever was known, abandoned his property to the vilest scum of the earth that ever did murder by wholesale, and you ask me why I am sorry that a man who instructs youth knows him? Well, but I'll answer you. I am sorry because I believe there is contamination in such a scoundrel. That's why
You may not understand the gentleman
I understand how to put _you_ in a corner, Mr. Darnay
and I'll do it. If this fellow is a gentleman, I_don't _ understand him. You may tell him so, with my compliments. You may also tell him, from me, that after abandoning his worldly goods and position to this butcherly mob, I wonder he is not at the head of them. But, no, gentlemen
I know something of human nature, and I tell you that you'll never find a fellow like this fellow, trusting himself to the mercies of such precious _prot&#65533;g&#65533;s_. No, gentlemen; he'll always show 'em a clean pair of heels very early in the scuffle, and sneak away
Will you take charge of the letter
You know where to deliver it
I do
Will you undertake to explain, that we suppose it to have been addressed here, on the chance of our knowing where to forward it, and that it has been here some time
I will do so. Do you start for Paris from here
From here, at eight
I will come back, to see you off
Prison of the Abbaye, Paris. "June 21, 1792. "MONSIEUR HERETOFORE THE MARQUIS. 

"After having long been in danger of my life at the hands of the village, I have been seized, with great violence and indignity, and brought a long journey on foot to Paris. On the road I have suffered a great deal. Nor is that all; my house has been destroyed -- razed to the ground. 

"The crime for which I am imprisoned, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, and for which I shall be summoned before the tribunal, and shall lose my life (without your so generous help), is, they tell me, treason against the majesty of the people, in that I have acted against them for an emigrant. It is in vain I represent that I have acted for them, and not against, according to your commands. It is in vain I represent that, before the sequestration of emigrant property, I had remitted the imposts they had ceased to pay; that I had collected no rent; that I had had recourse to no process. The only response is, that I have acted for an emigrant, and where is that emigrant? 

"Ah! most gracious Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, where is that emigrant? I cry in my sleep where is he? I demand of Heaven, will he not come to deliver me? No answer. Ah Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, I send my desolate cry across the sea, hoping it may perhaps reach your ears through the great bank of Tilson known at Paris! 

"For the love of Heaven, of justice, of generosity, of the honour of your noble name, I supplicate you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, to succour and release me. My fault is, that I have been true to you. Oh Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, I pray you be you true to me! 

"From this prison here of horror, whence I every hour tend nearer and nearer to destruction, I send you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, the assurance of my dolorous and unhappy service. 

"Your afflicted, 

"Gabelle
I have delivered that letter
I would not consent to your being charged with any written answer, but perhaps you will take a verbal one
That I will, and readily
if it is not dangerous
Not at all. Though it is to a prisoner in the Abbaye
What is his name
Gabelle
Gabelle. And what is the message to the unfortunate Gabelle in prison
Simply, &bquo;that he has received the letter, and will come
Any time mentioned
He will start upon his journey to-morrow night
Any person mentioned
No
My love to Lucie, and to little Lucie
and take precious care of them till I come back
For the love of Heaven, of justice, of generosity, of the honour of your noble name
Emigrant
I am going to send you on to Paris, under an escort
Citizen, I desire nothing more than to get to Paris, though I could dispense with the escort
Silence
Peace, aristocrat
It is as the good patriot says
You are an aristocrat, and must have an escort -- and must pay for it
I have no choice
Choice! Listen to him
As if it was not a favour to be protected from the lamp-iron
It is always as the good patriot says
Rise and dress yourself, emigrant
Down with the emigrant
Emigrant, my friends! Do you not see me here, in France, of my own will
You are a cursed emigrant
and you are a cursed aristocrat
Let him be; let him be! He will be judged at Paris
Judged
Ay! and condemned as a traitor
Friends, you deceive yourselves, or you are deceived. I am not a traitor
He lies
He is a traitor since the decree. His life is forfeit to the people. His cursed life is not his own
What is this decree that the smith spoke of
Truly, a decree for selling the property of emigrants
When passed
On the fourteenth
The day I left England
Everybody says it is but one of several, and that there will be others -- if there are not already -- banishing all emigrants, and condemning all to death who return. That is what he meant when he said your life was not your own
But there are no such decrees yet
What do I know
there may be, or there will be. It is all the same. What would you have
Where are the papers of this prisoner
Where
are the papers of this prisoner
Citizen Defarge
Is this the emigrant Evremonde
This is the man
Your age, Evremonde
Thirty-seven
Married, Evremonde
Yes
Where married
In England
Without doubt. Where is your wife, Evremonde
In England
Without doubt. You are consigned, Evremonde, to the prison of La Force
Just Heaven
Under what law, and for what offence
We have new laws, Evremonde, and new offences, since you were here
I entreat you to observe that I have come here voluntarily, in response to that written appeal of a fellow-countryman which lies before you. I demand no more than the opportunity to do so without delay. Is not that my right
Emigrants have no rights, Evremonde
In secret
Is it you
who married the daughter of Doctor Manette, once a prisoner in the Bastille that is no more
Yes
My name is Defarge, and I keep a wine-shop in the Quarter Saint Antoine. Possibly you have heard of me
My wife came to your house to reclaim her father? Yes
In the name of that sharp female newly-born, and called La Guillotine, why did you come to France
You heard me say why, a minute ago. Do you not believe it is the truth
A bad truth for you
Indeed I am lost here. All here is so unprecedented, so changed, so sudden and unfair, that I am absolutely lost. Will you render me a little help
None
Will you answer me a single question
Perhaps. According to its nature. You can say what it is
In this prison that I am going to so unjustly, shall I have some free communication with the world outside
You will see
I am not to be buried there, prejudged, and without any means of presenting my case
You will see. But, what then? Other people have been similarly buried in worse prisons, before now
But never by me, Citizen Defarge
It is of the utmost importance to me (you know, Citizen, even better than I, of how much importance), that I should be able to communicate to Mr. Lorry of Tellson's Bank, an English gentleman who is now in Paris, the simple fact, without comment, that I have been thrown into the prison of La Force. Will you cause that to be done for me
I will do
nothing for you. My duty is to my country and the People. I am the sworn servant of both, against you. I will do nothing for you
sharp female newly-born, and called La Guillotine
The Emigrant Evremonde
What the Devil! How many more of them
What the Devil, I say again
How many more
One must have patience, my dear
For the love of Liberty
In secret, too
As if I was not already full to bursting
Come
come with me, emigrant
In the name of the assembled companions in misfortune
I have the honour of giving you welcome to La Force, and of condoling with you on the calamity that has brought you among us. May it soon terminate happily! It would be an impertinence elsewhere, but it is not so here, to ask your name and condition
But I hope
that you are not in secret
I do not understand the meaning of the term, but I have heard them say so
Ah, what a pity! We so much regret it! But take courage; several members of our society have been in secret, at first, and it has lasted but a short time
I grieve to inform the society -- in secret
Yours
Why am I confined alone
How do I know
I can buy pen, ink, and paper
Such are not my orders. You will be visited, and can ask then. At present, you may buy your food, and nothing more
Now am I left, as if I were dead
And here in these crawling creatures is the first condition of the body after death
Five paces by four and a half, five paces by four and a half, five paces by four and a half
He made shoes, he made shoes, he made shoes
The ghosts that vanished when the wicket closed. There was one among them, the appearance of a lady dressed in black, who was leaning in the embrasure of a window, and she had a light shining upon her golden hair, and she looked like * * * * Let us ride on again, for God's sake, through the illuminated villages with the people all awake! * * * * He made shoes, he made shoes, he made shoes. * * * * Five paces by four and a half
Thank God
that no one near and dear to me is in this dreadful town to-night. May He have mercy on all who are in danger
They have come back
What is this
What is the matter? Lucie! Manette! What has happened? What has brought you here? What is it
O my dear friend! My husband
Your husband, Lucie
Charles
What of Charles
Here. "Here, in Paris
Has been here some days -- three or four -- I don't know how many -- I can't collect my thoughts. An errand of generosity brought him here unknown to us; he was stopped at the barrier, and sent to prison
What is that noise
Don't look
Don't look out! Manette, for your life, don't touch the blind
My dear friend, I have a charmed life in this city. I have been a Bastille prisoner. There is no patriot in Paris -- in Paris? In France -- who, knowing me to have been a prisoner in the Bastille, would touch me, except to overwhelm me with embraces, or carry me in triumph. My old pain has given me a power that has brought us through the barrier, and gained us news of Charles there, and brought us here. I knew it would be so; I knew I could help Charles out of all danger; I told Lucie so.-- What is that noise
Don't look
No, Lucie, my dear, nor you
Don't be so terrified, my love. I solemnly swear to you that I know of no harm having happened to Charles; that I had no suspicion even of his being in this fatal place. What prison is he in
La Force
La Force! Lucie, my child, if ever you were brave and serviceable in your life -- and you were always both -- you will compose yourself now, to do exactly as I bid you; for more depends upon it than you can think, or I can say. There is no help for you in any action on your part to-night; you cannot possibly stir out. I say this, because what I must bid you to do for Charles's sake, is the hardest thing to do of all. You must instantly be obedient, still, and quiet. You must let me put you in a room at the back here. You must leave your father and me alone for two minutes, and as there are Life and Death in the world you must not delay
I will be submissive to you. I see in your face that you know I can do nothing else than this. I know you are true
They are
murdering the prisoners. If you are sure of what you say; if you really have the power you think you have -- as I believe you have -- make yourself known to these devils, and get taken to La Force. It may be too late, I don't know, but let it not be a minute later
Live the Bastille prisoner! Help for the Bastille prisoner's kindred in La Force! Room for the Bastille prisoner in front there! Save the prisoner Evremonde at La Force
What is it
Hush! The soldiers' swords are sharpened there
The place is national property now, and used as a kind of armoury, my love
Your servant
Do you know me
Do you know me
I have seen you somewhere
Perhaps at my wine-shop
You come from Doctor Manette
Yes. I come from Doctor Manette
And what says he? What does he send me
Charles is safe, but I cannot safely leave this place yet. I have obtained the favour that the bearer has a short note from Charles to his wife. Let the bearer see his wife
Will you accompany me
to where his wife resides
Yes
Madame Defarge, surely
It is she
Does Madame go with us
Yes. That she may be able to recognise the faces and know the persons. It is for their safety
DEAREST,-- Take courage. I am well, and your father has influence around me. You cannot answer this. Kiss our child for me
My dear
there are frequent risings in the streets; and, although it is not likely they will ever trouble you, Madame Defarge wishes to see those whom she has the power to protect at such times, to the end that she may know them -- that she may identify them. I believe
I state the case, Citizen Defarge
You had better, Lucie
have the dear child here, and our good Pross. Our good Pross, Defarge, is an English lady, and knows no French
Well, I am sure, Boldface! I hope _you_ are pretty well
Is that his child
Yes, madame
this is our poor prisoner's darling daughter, and only child
It is enough, my husband
I have seen them. We may go
You will be good to my poor husband. You will do him no harm. You will help me to see him if you can
Your husband is not my business here
It is the daughter of your father who is my business here
For my sake, then, be merciful to my husband. For my child's sake! She will put her hands together and pray you to be merciful. We are more afraid of you than of these others
What is it that your husband says in that little letter
Influence; he says something touching influence
That my father
has much influence around him
Surely it will release him
Let it do so
As a wife and mother
I implore you to have pity on me and not to exercise any power that you possess, against my innocent husband, but to use it in his behalf. O sister-woman, think of me. As a wife and mother
The wives and mothers we have been used to see, since we were as little as this child, and much less, have not been greatly considered? We have known _their_ husbands and fathers laid in prison and kept from them, often enough? All our lives, we have seen our sister-women suffer, in themselves and in their children, poverty, nakedness, hunger, thirst, sickness, misery, oppression and neglect of all kinds
We have seen nothing else
We have borne this a long time
Judge you! Is it likely that the trouble of one wife and mother would be much to us now
Courage, my dear Lucie
Courage, courage! So far all goes well with us -- much, much better than it has of late gone with many poor souls. Cheer up, and have a thankful heart
I am not thankless, I hope, but that dreadful woman seems to throw a shadow on me and on all my hopes
Tut, tut
what is this despondency in the brave little breast? A shadow indeed! No substance in it, Lucie
It all tended to a good end, my friend; it was not mere waste and ruin. As my beloved child was helpful in restoring me to myself, I will be helpful now in restoring the dearest part of herself to her; by the aid of Heaven I will do it
All curious to see
but all natural and right; so, take the lead, my dear friend, and keep it; it couldn't be in better hands
Nothing can happen to him without my knowledge, and I know that I can save him, Lucie
My dear, there is an upper window in the prison, to which Charles can sometimes gain access at three in the afternoon. When he can get to it -- which depends on many uncertainties and incidents -- he might see you in the street, he thinks, if you stood in a certain place that I can show you. But you will not be able to see him, my poor child, and even if you could, it would be unsafe for you to make a sign of recognition
O show me the place, my father, and I will go there every day
Good day, citizeness
Good day, citizen
Walking here again, citizeness
You see me, citizen
But it's not my business
What? Walking here again, citizeness
Yes, citizen
Ah! A child too! Your mother, is it not, my little citizeness
Do I say yes, mamma
Yes, dearest
Yes, citizen
Ah! But it's not my business. My work is my business. See my saw! I call it my Little Guillotine. La, la, la; La, la, la! And off his head comes
I call myself the Samson of the firewood guillotine. See here again! Loo, loo, loo; Loo, loo, loo! And off _her_ head comes! Now, a child. Tickle, tickle; Pickle, pickle! And off _its_ head comes. All the family
But it's not my business
Little Sainte Guillotine
O my father
such a cruel, bad sight
I know, my dear, I know. I have seen it many times. Don't be frightened! Not one of them would harm you
I am not frightened for myself, my father. But when I think of my husband, and the mercies of these people
We will set him above their mercies very soon. I left him climbing to the window, and I came to tell you. There is no one here to see. You may kiss your hand towards that highest shelving roof
I do so, father, and I send him my Soul with it
You cannot see him, my poor dear
No, father
no
I salute you, citizeness
I salute you, citizen
Give me your arm, my love. Pass from here with an air of cheerfulness and courage, for his sake. That was well done
it shall not be in vain. Charles is summoned for to-morrow
For to-morrow
There is no time to lose. I am well prepared, but there are precautions to be taken, that could not be taken until he was actually summoned before the Tribunal. He has not received the notice yet, but I know that he will presently be summoned for to-morrow, and removed to the Conciergerie; I have timely information. You are not afraid
I trust in you
Do so, implicitly. Your suspense is nearly ended, my darling; he shall be restored to you within a few hours; I have encompassed him with every protection. I must see Lorry
I must see Lorry
Removed to the Conciergerie, and summoned for to-morrow
Come out and listen to the Evening Paper, you inside there
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay
Take off his head
An enemy to the Republic
Lucie Manette, only daughter of Doctor Manette, the good physician who sits there
No
No
Long live the Republic
Lucie! My own! I am safe
O dearest Charles, let me thank God for this on my knees as I have prayed to Him
And now speak to your father, dearest. No other man in all this France could have done what he has done for me
You must not be weak, my darling
don't tremble so. I have saved him
I have saved him
Now, Mr. Cruncher
if you are ready, I am
There's all manner of things wanted
and we shall have a precious time of it. We want wine, among the rest. Nice toasts these Redheads will be drinking, wherever we buy it
It will be much the same to your knowledge, miss, I should think
whether they drink your health or the Old Un's
Who's he
Old Nick's
Ha
it doesn't need an interpreter to explain the meaning of these creatures. They have but one, and it's Midnight Murder, and Mischief
Hush, dear! Pray, pray, be cautious
Yes, yes, yes, I'll be cautious
but I may say among ourselves, that I do hope there will be no oniony and tobaccoey smotherings in the form of embracings all round, going on in the streets. Now, Ladybird, never you stir from that fire till I come back! Take care of the dear husband you have recovered, and don't move your pretty head from his shoulder as you have it now, till you see me again! May I ask a question, Doctor Manette, before I go
I think you may take that liberty
For gracious sake, don't talk about Liberty; we have quite enough of that
Hush, dear! Again
Well, my sweet
the short and the long of it is, that I am a subject of His Most Gracious Majesty King George the Third
and as such, my maxim is, Confound their politics, Frustrate their knavish tricks, On him our hopes we fix, God save the King
I am glad you have so much of the Englishman in you, though I wish you had never taken that cold in your voice
But the question, Doctor Manette. Is there
is there any prospect yet, of our getting out of this place
I fear not yet. It would be dangerous for Charles yet
Heigh-ho-hum
then we must have patience and wait: that's all. We must hold up our heads and fight low, as my brother Solomon used to say. Now, Mr. Cruncher!-- Don't you move, Ladybird
What is that
My dear
command yourself. What a disordered state you are in! The least thing -- nothing -- startles you! _You_, your father's daughter
I thought, my father
that I heard strange feet upon the stairs
My love, the staircase is as still as Death
Oh father, father. What can this be! Hide Charles. Save him
My child
I _have_ saved him. What weakness is this, my dear! Let me go to the door
The Citizen Evremonde, called Darnay
Who seeks him
I seek him. We seek him. I know you, Evremonde; I saw you before the Tribunal to-day. You are again the prisoner of the Republic
Tell me how and why am I again a prisoner
It is enough that you return straight to the Conciergerie, and will know to-morrow. You are summoned for to-morrow
You know him, you have said. Do you know me
Yes, I know you, Citizen Doctor
We all know you, Citizen Doctor
Will you answer his question to me then? How does this happen
Citizen Doctor
he has been denounced to the Section of Saint Antoine. This citizen
is from Saint Antoine
He is accused by Saint Antoine
Of what
Citizen Doctor
ask no more. If the Republic demands sacrifices from you, without doubt you as a good patriot will be happy to make them. The Republic goes before all. The People is supreme. Evremonde, we are pressed
One word
Will you tell me who denounced him
It is against rule
but you can ask Him of Saint Antoine here
Well! Truly it is against rule. But he is denounced -- and gravely -- by the Citizen and Citizeness Defarge. And by one other
What other
Do _you_ ask, Citizen Doctor
Yes
Then
you will be answered to-morrow. Now, I am dumb
What is the matter
Oh, Solomon, dear Solomon
After not setting eyes upon you or hearing of you for so long a time, do I find you here
Don't call me Solomon. Do you want to be the death of me
Brother, brother
Have I ever been so hard with you that you ask me such a cruel question
Then hold your meddlesome tongue
and come out, if you want to speak to me. Pay for your wine, and come out. Who's this man
Mr. Cruncher
Let him come out too
Does he think me a ghost
Now
what do you want
How dreadfully unkind in a brother nothing has ever turned my love away from
to give me such a greeting, and show me no affection
There. Confound it! There
Now are you content
If you expect me to be surprised
I am not surprised; I knew you were here; I know of most people who are here. If you really don't want to endanger my existence -- which I half believe you do -- go your ways as soon as possible, and let me go mine. I am busy. I am an official
My English brother Solomon
that had the makings in him of one of the best and greatest of men in his native country, an official among foreigners, and such foreigners! I would almost sooner have seen the dear boy lying in his
I said so
I knew it. You want to be the death of me. I shall be rendered Suspected, by my own sister. Just as I am getting on
The gracious and merciful Heavens forbid
Far rather would I never see you again, dear Solomon, though I have ever loved you truly, and ever shall. Say but one affectionate word to me, and tell me there is nothing angry or estranged between us, and I will detain you no longer
I say! Might I ask the favour? As to whether your name is John Solomon, or Solomon John
Come
Speak out, you know
John Solomon, or Solomon John? She calls you Solomon, and she must know, being your sister. And _I_ know you're John, you know. Which of the two goes first? And regarding that name of Pross, likewise. That warn't your name over the water
What do you mean
Well, I don't know all I mean, for I can't call to mind what your name was, over the water
No
No. But I'll swear it was a name of two syllables
Indeed
Yes. T'other one's was one syllable. I know you. You was a spy -- witness at the Bailey. What, in the name of the Father of Lies, own father to yourself, was you called at that time
Barsad
That's the name for a thousand pound
Don't be alarmed, my dear Miss Pross. I arrived at Mr. Lorry's, to his surprise, yesterday evening; we agreed that I would not present myself elsewhere until all was well, or unless I could be useful; I present myself here, to beg a little talk with your brother. I wish you had a better employed brother than Mr. Barsad. I wish for your sake Mr. Barsad was not a Sheep of the Prisons
I'll tell you
I lighted on you, Mr. Barsad, coming out of the prison of the Conciergerie while I was contemplating the walls, an hour or more ago. You have a face to be remembered, and I remember faces well. Made curious by seeing you in that connection, and having a reason, to which you are no stranger, for associating you with the misfortunes of a friend now very unfortunate, I walked in your direction. I walked into the wine-shop here, close after you, and sat near you. I had no difficulty in deducing from your unreserved conversation, and the rumour openly going about among your admirers, the nature of your calling. And gradually, what I had done at random, seemed to shape itself into a purpose, Mr. Barsad
What purpose
It would be troublesome, and might be dangerous, to explain in the street. Could you favour me, in confidence, with some minutes of your company -- at the office of Tellson's Bank, for instance
Under a threat
Oh! Did I say that
Then, why should I go there
Really, Mr. Barsad, I can't say, if you can't
Do you mean that you won't say, sir
You apprehend me very clearly, Mr. Barsad. I won't
Now, I told you so
if any trouble comes of this, it's your doing
Come, come, Mr. Barsad
Don't be ungrateful. But for my great respect for your sister, I might not have led up so pleasantly to a little proposal that I wish to make for our mutual satisfaction. Do you go with me to the Bank
I'll hear what you have got to say. Yes, I'll go with you
I propose that we first conduct your sister safely to the corner of her own street. Let me take your arm, Miss Pross. This is not a good city, at this time, for you to be out in, unprotected; and as your escort knows Mr. Barsad, I will invite him to Mr. Lorry's with us. Are we ready? Come then
Miss Pross's brother, sir
Mr. Barsad
Barsad
Barsad? I have an association with the name -- and with the face
I told you you had a remarkable face, Mr. Barsad
Pray sit down
Witness at that trial
Mr. Barsad has been recognised by Miss Pross as the affectionate brother you have heard of
and has acknowledged the relationship. I pass to worse news. Darnay has been arrested again
What do you tell me! I left him safe and free within these two hours, and am about to return to him
Arrested for all that. When was it done, Mr. Barsad
Just now, if at all
Mr. Barsad is the best authority possible, sir
and I have it from Mr. Barsad's communication to a friend and brother Sheep over a bottle of wine, that the arrest has taken place. He left the messengers at the gate, and saw them admitted by the porter. There is no earthly doubt that he is retaken
Now, I trust
that the name and influence of Doctor Manette may stand him in as good stead to-morrow -- you said he would be before the Tribunal again to-morrow, Mr. Barsad
Yes; I believe so
In as good stead to-morrow as to-day. But it may not be so. I own to you, I am shaken, Mr. Lorry, by Doctor Manette's not having had the power to prevent this arrest
He may not have known of it beforehand
But that very circumstance would be alarming, when we remember how identified he is with his son-in-law
That's true
In short
this is a desperate time, when desperate games are played for desperate stakes. Let the Doctor play the winning game; I will play the losing one. No man's life here is worth purchase. Any one carried home by the people to-day, may be condemned tomorrow. Now, the stake I have resolved to play for, in case of the worst, is a friend in the Conciergerie. And the friend I purpose to myself to win, is Mr. Barsad
You need have good cards, sir
I'll run them over. I'll see what I hold,-- Mr. Lorry, you know what a brute I am; I wish you'd give me a little brandy
Mr. Barsad
Sheep of the prisons, emissary of Republican committees, now turnkey, now prisoner, always spy and secret informer, so much the more valuable here for being English that an Englishman is less open to suspicion of subornation in those characters than a Frenchman, represents himself to his employers under a false name. That's a very good card. Mr. Barsad, now in the employ of the republican French government, was formerly in the employ of the aristocratic English government, the enemy of France and freedom. That's an excellent card. Inference clear as day in this region of suspicion, that Mr. Barsad, still in the pay of the aristocratic English government, is the spy of Pitt, the treacherous foe of the Republic crouching in its bosom, the English traitor and agent of all mischief so much spoken of and so difficult to find. That's a card not to be beaten. Have you followed my hand, Mr. Barsad
Not to understand your play
I play my Ace, Denunciation of Mr. Barsad to the nearest Section Committee. Look over your hand, Mr. Barsad, and see what you have. Don't hurry
Look over your hand carefully, Mr. Barsad. Take time
You scarcely seem to like your hand
Do you play
I think, sir
I may appeal to a gentleman of your years and benevolence, to put it to this other gentleman, so much your junior, whether he can under any circumstances reconcile it to his station to play that Ace of which he has spoken. I admit that _I_ am a spy, and that it is considered a discreditable station -- though it must be filled by somebody; but this gentleman is no spy, and why should he so demean himself as to make himself one
I play my Ace, Mr. Barsad
without any scruple, in a very few minutes
I should have hoped, gentlemen both
that your respect for my sister
I could not better testify my respect for your sister than by finally relieving her of her brother
You think not, sir
I have thoroughly made up my mind about it
And indeed, now I think again, I have a strong impression that I have another good card here, not yet enumerated. That friend and fellow-Sheep, who spoke of himself as pasturing in the country prisons; who was he
French. You don't know him
French, eh
Well; he may be
Is, I assure you
though it's not important
Though it's not important
though it's not important -- No, it's not important. No. Yet I know the face
I think not. I am sure not. It can't be
It-can't-be
Can't-be. Spoke good French. Yet like a foreigner, I thought
Provincial
No. Foreign
Cly! Disguised, but the same man. We had that man before us at the Old Bailey
Now, there you are hasty, sir
there you really give me an advantage over you. Cly (who I will unreservedly admit, at this distance of time, was a partner of mine) has been dead several years. I attended him in his last illness. He was buried in London, at the church of Saint Pancras-in-the-Fields. His unpopularity with the blackguard multitude at the moment prevented my following his remains, but I helped to lay him in his coffin
Let us be reasonable
and let us be fair. To show you how mistaken you are, and what an unfounded assumption yours is, I will lay before you a certificate of Cly's burial, which I happened to have carried in my pocket-book
ever since. There it is. Oh, look at it, look at it! You may take it in your hand; it's no forgery
That there Roger Cly, master
So _you_ put him in his coffin
I did
Who took him out of it
What do you mean
I mean
that he warn't never in it. No! Not he! I'll have my head took off, if he was ever in it
I tell you
that you buried paving-stones and earth in that there coffin. Don't go and tell me that you buried Cly. It was a take in. Me and two more knows it
How do you know it
What's that to you? Ecod
it's you I have got a old grudge again, is it, with your shameful impositions upon tradesmen! I'd catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a guinea
At another time, sir
the present time is ill-conwenient for explainin'. What I stand to, is, that he knows well wot that there Cly was never in that there coffin. Let him say he was, in so much as a word of one syllable, and I'll either catch hold of his throat and choke him for half a guinea
or I'll out and announce him
Humph! I see one thing
I hold another card, Mr. Barsad. Impossible, here in raging Paris, with Suspicion filling the air, for you to outlive denunciation, when you are in communication with another aristocratic spy of the same antecedents as yourself, who, moreover, has the mystery about him of having feigned death and come to life again! A plot in the prisons, of the foreigner against the Republic. A strong card -- a certain Guillotine card! Do you play
No
I throw up. I confess that we were so unpopular with the outrageous mob, that I only got away from England at the risk of being ducked to death, and that Cly was so ferreted up and down, that he never would have got away at all but for that sham. Though how this man knows it was a sham, is a wonder of wonders to me
Never you trouble your head about this man
you'll have trouble enough with giving your attention to that gentleman. And look here! Once more
I'd catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a guinea
It has come to a point. I go on duty soon, and can't overstay my time. You told me you had a proposal; what is it? Now, it is of no use asking too much of me. Ask me to do anything in my office, putting my head in great extra danger, and I had better trust my life to the chances of a refusal than the chances of consent. In short, I should make that choice. You talk of desperation. We are all desperate here. Remember! I may denounce you if I think proper, and I can swear my way through stone walls, and so can others. Now, what do you want with me
Not very much. You are a turnkey at the Conciergerie
I tell you once for all, there is no such thing as an escape possible
Why need you tell me what I have not asked? You are a turnkey at the Conciergerie
I am sometimes
You can be when you choose
I can pass in and out when I choose
So far, we have spoken before these two, because it was as well that the merits of the cards should not rest solely between you and me. Come into the dark room here, and let us have one final word alone
Jerry
Come here
What have you been, besides a messenger
Agicultooral character
My mind misgives me much
that you have used the respectable and great house of Tellson's as a blind, and that you have had an unlawful occupation of an infamous description. If you have, don't expect me to befriend you when you get back to England. If you have, don't expect me to keep your secret. Tellson's shall not be imposed upon
I hope, sir
that a gentleman like yourself wot I've had the honour of odd jobbing till I'm grey at it, would think twice about harming of me, even if it wos so -- I don't say it is, but even if it wos. And which it is to be took into account that if it wos, it wouldn't, even then, be all o' one side. There'd be two sides to it. There might be medical doctors at the present hour, a picking up their guineas where a honest tradesman don't pick up his fardens -- fardens! no, nor yet his half fardens -- half fardens! no, nor yet his quarter -- a banking away like smoke at Tellson's, and a cocking their medical eyes at that tradesman on the sly, a going in and going out to their own carriages -- ah! equally like smoke, if not more so. Well, that 'ud be imposing, too, on Tellson's. For you cannot sarse the goose and not the gander. And here's Mrs. Cruncher, or leastways wos in the Old England times, and would be to-morrow, if cause given, a floppin' again the business to that degree as is ruinating -- stark ruinating! Whereas them medical doctors' wives don't flop -- catch 'em at it! Or, if they flop, their toppings goes in favour of more patients, and how can you rightly have one without t'other? Then, wot with undertakers, and wot with parish clerks, and wot with sextons, and wot with private watchmen (all awaricious and all in it), a man wouldn't get much by it, even if it wos so. And wot little a man did get, would never prosper with him, Mr. Lorry. He'd never have no good of it; he'd want all along to be out of the line, if he, could see his way out, being once in -- even if it wos so
Ugh
I am shocked at the sight of you
Now, what I would humbly offer to you, sir
even if it wos so, which I don't say it is
Don't prevaricate
No, I will _not_, sir
which I don't say it is -- wot I would humbly offer to you, sir, would be this. Upon that there stool, at that there Bar, sets that there boy of mine, brought up and growed up to be a man, wot will errand you, message you, general- light-job you, till your heels is where your head is, if such should be your wishes. If it wos so, which I still don't say it is (for I will not prewaricate to you, sir), let that there boy keep his father's place, and take care of his mother; don't blow upon that boy's father -- do not do it, sir -- and let that father go into the line of the reg'lar diggin', and make amends for what he would have undug -- if it wos so -- by diggin' of 'em in with a will, and with conwictions respectin' the futur' keepin' of 'em safe. That, Mr. Lorry
is wot I would respectfully offer to you, sir. A man don't see all this here a goin' on dreadful round him, in the way of Subjects without heads, dear me, plentiful enough fur to bring the price down to porterage and hardly that, without havin' his serious thoughts of things. And these here would be mine, if it wos so, entreatin' of you fur to bear in mind that wot I said just now, I up and said in the good cause when I might have kep' it back
That at least is true
Say no more now. It may be that I shall yet stand your friend, if you deserve it, and repent in action -- not in words. I want no more words
Adieu, Mr. Barsad
our arrangement thus made, you have nothing to fear from me
Not much. If it should go ill with the prisoner, I have ensured access to him, once
It is all I could do
To propose too much, would be to put this man's head under the axe, and, as he himself said, nothing worse could happen to him if he were denounced. It was obviously the weakness of the position. There is no help for it
But access to him
if it should go ill before the Tribunal, will not save him
I never said it would
You are a good man and a true friend
Forgive me if I notice that you are affected. I could not see my father weep, and sit by, careless. And I could not respect your sorrow more, if you were my father. You are free from that misfortune, however
To return to poor Darnay
Don't tell Her of this interview, or this arrangement. It would not enable Her to go to see him. She might think it was contrived, in case of the worse, to convey to him the means of anticipating the sentence
She might think a thousand things
and any of them would only add to her trouble. Don't speak of me to her. As I said to you when I first came, I had better not see her. I can put my hand out, to do any little helpful work for her that my hand can find to do, without that. You are going to her, I hope? She must be very desolate to-night
I am going now, directly
I am glad of that. She has such a strong attachment to you and reliance on you. How does she look
Anxious and unhappy, but very beautiful
Ah
I forgot it
And your duties here have drawn to an end, sir
Yes. As I was telling you last night when Lucie came in so unexpectedly, I have at length done all that I can do here. I hoped to have left them in perfect safety, and then to have quitted Paris. I have my Leave to Pass. I was ready to go
Yours is a long life to look back upon, sir
I am in my seventy-eighth year
You have been useful all your life; steadily and constantly occupied; trusted, respected, and looked up to
I have been a man of business, ever since I have been a man. Indeed, I may say that I was a man of business when a boy
See what a place you fill at seventy-eight. How many people will miss you when you leave it empty
A solitary old bachelor
There is nobody to weep for me
How can you say that? Wouldn't She weep for you? Wouldn't her child
Yes, yes, thank God. I didn't quite mean what I said
It _is_ a thing to thank God for; is it not
Surely, surely
If you could say, with truth, to your own solitary heart, to-night, 'I have secured to myself the love and attachment, the gratitude or respect, of no human creature; I have won myself a tender place in no regard; I have done nothing good or serviceable to be remembered by!' your seventy-eight years would be seventy-eight heavy curses; would they not
You say truly, Mr. Carton; I think they would be
I should like to ask you:-- Does your childhood seem far off? Do the days when you sat at your mother's knee, seem days of very long ago
Twenty years back, yes; at this time of my life, no. For, as I draw closer and closer to the end, I travel in the circle, nearer and nearer to the beginning. It seems to be one of the kind smoothings and preparings of the way. My heart is touched now, by many remembrances that had long fallen asleep, of my pretty young mother (and I so old!), and by many associations of the days when what we call the World was not so real with me, and my faults were not confirmed in me
I understand the feeling
And you are the better for it
I hope so
But you
you are young
Yes
I am not old, but my young way was never the way to age. Enough of me
And of me, I am sure
Are you going out
I'll walk with you to her gate. You know my vagabond and restless habits. If I should prowl about the streets a long time, don't be uneasy; I shall reappear in the morning. You go to the Court to-morrow
Yes, unhappily
I shall be there, but only as one of the crowd. My Spy will find a place for me. Take my arm, sir
She came out here
turned this way, must have trod on these stones often. Let me follow in her steps
Good night, citizen
Good night, citizen
How goes the Republic
You mean the Guillotine. Not ill. Sixty-three to-day. We shall mount to a hundred soon. Samson and his men complain sometimes, of being exhausted. Ha, ha, ha! He is so droll, that Samson. Such a Barber
Do you often go to see him
Shave? Always. Every day. What a barber! You have seen him at work
Never
Go and see him when he has a good batch. Figure this to yourself, citizen; he shaved the sixty-three to-day, in less than two pipes! Less than two pipes. Word of honour
But you are not English
though you wear English dress
Yes
You speak like a Frenchman
I am an old student here
Aha, a perfect Frenchman! Good night, Englishman
Good night, citizen
But go and see that droll dog
And take a pipe with you
Whew
Hi! hi! hi
For you, citizen
For me
You will be careful to keep them separate, citizen? You know the consequences of mixing them
Perfectly
There is nothing more to do
until to-morrow. I can't sleep
I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die
I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die
Like me
I am the resurrection and the life
Openly, President
By whom
Three voices. Ernest Defarge, wine-vendor of St. Antoine
Good
Therese Defarge, his wife
Good
Alexandre Manette, physician
President, I indignantly protest to you that this is a forgery and a fraud. You know the accused to be the husband of my daughter. My daughter, and those dear to her, are far dearer to me than my life. Who and where is the false conspirator who says that I denounce the husband of my child
Citizen Manette, be tranquil. To fail in submission to the authority of the Tribunal would be to put yourself out of Law. As to what is dearer to you than life, nothing can be so dear to a good citizen as the Republic
If the Republic should demand of you the sacrifice of your child herself, you would have no duty but to sacrifice her. Listen to what is to follow. In the meanwhile, be silent
You did good service at the taking of the Bastille, citizen
I believe so
You were one of the best patriots there. Why not say so? You were a cannonier that day there, and you were among the first to enter the accursed fortress when it fell. Patriots, I speak the truth
I defy that bell
Inform the Tribunal of what you did that day within the Bastille, citizen
I knew
I knew that this prisoner, of whom I speak, had been confined in a cell known as One Hundred and Five, North Tower. I knew it from himself. He knew himself by no other name than One Hundred and Five, North Tower, when he made shoes under my care. As I serve my gun that day, I resolve, when the place shall fall, to examine that cell. It falls. I mount to the cell, with a fellow-citizen who is one of the Jury, directed by a gaoler. I examine it, very closely. In a hole in the chimney, where a stone has been worked out and replaced, I find a written paper. This is that written paper. I have made it my business to examine some specimens of the writing of Doctor Manette. This is the writing of Doctor Manette. I confide this paper, in the writing of Doctor Manette, to the hands of the President
Let it be read
I, Alexandre Manette, unfortunate physician, native of Beauvais, and afterwards resident in Paris, write this melancholy paper in my doleful cell in the Bastille, during the last month of the year, 1767. I write it at stolen intervals, under every difficulty. I design to secrete it in the wall of the chimney, where I have slowly and laboriously made a place of concealment for it. Some pitying hand may find it there, when I and my sorrows are dust. "These words are formed by the rusty iron point with which I write with difficulty in scrapings of soot and charcoal from the chimney, mixed with blood, in the last month of the tenth year of my captivity. Hope has quite departed from my breast. I know from terrible warnings I have noted in myself that my reason will not long remain unimpaired, but I solemnly declare that I am at this time in the possession of my right mind -- that my memory is exact and circumstantial -- and that I write the truth as I shall answer for these my last recorded words, whether they be ever read by men or not, at the Eternal Judgment-seat. 

"One cloudy moonlight night, in the third week of December (I think the twenty-second of the month) in the year 1757, I was walking on a retired part of the quay by the Seine for the refreshment of the frosty air, at an hour's distance from my place of residence in the Street of the School of Medicine, when a carriage came along behind me, driven very fast. As I stood aside to let that carriage pass, apprehensive that it might otherwise run me down, a head was put out at the window, and a voice called to the driver to stop. 

"The carriage stopped as soon as the driver could rein in his horses, and the same voice called to me by my name. I answered. The carriage was then so far in advance of me that two gentlemen had time to open the door and alight before I came up with it. 

"I observed that they were both wrapped in cloaks, and appeared to conceal themselves. As they stood side by side near the carriage door, I also observed that they both looked of about my own age, or rather younger, and that they were greatly alike, in stature, manner, voice, and (as far as I could see) face too. 

"&bquo;You are Doctor Manette?' said one. 

"I am
Doctor Manette, formerly of Beauvais,' said the other; &bquo;the young physician, originally an expert surgeon, who within the last year or two has made a rising reputation in Paris?' "&bquo;Gentlemen, ' I returned, &bquo;I am that Doctor Manette of whom you speak so graciously.' 

"&bquo;We have been to your residence, ' said the first, &bquo;and not being so fortunate as to find you there, and being informed that you were probably walking in this direction, we followed, in the hope of overtaking you. Will you please to enter the carriage?' 

"The manner of both was imperious, and they both moved, as these words were spoken, so as to place me between themselves and the carriage door. They were armed. I was not. 

"&bquo;Gentlemen, ' said I, &bquo;pardon me; but I usually inquire who does me the honour to seek my assistance, and what is the nature of the case to which I am summoned.' 

"The reply to this was made by him who had spoken second. 'Doctor, your clients are people of condition. As to the nature of the case, our confidence in your skill assures us that you will ascertain it for yourself better than we can describe it. Enough. Will you please to enter the carriage?' 

"I could do nothing but comply, and I entered it in silence. They both entered after me -- the last springing in, after putting up the steps. The carriage turned about, and drove on at its former speed. 

"I repeat this conversation exactly as it occurred. I have no doubt that it is, word for word, the same. I describe everything exactly as it took place, constraining my mind not to wander from the task. Where I make the broken marks that follow here, I leave off for the time, and put my paper in its hiding-place. 

"The carriage left the streets behind, passed the North Barrier, and emerged upon the country road. At two-thirds of a league from the Barrier -- I did not estimate the distance at that time, but afterwards when I traversed it -- it struck out of the main avenue, and presently stopped at a solitary house, We all three alighted, and walked, by a damp soft footpath in a garden where a neglected fountain had overflowed, to the door of the house. It was not opened immediately, in answer to the ringing of the bell, and one of my two conductors struck the man who opened it, with his heavy riding glove, across the face. 

"There was nothing in this action to attract my particular attention, for I had seen common people struck more commonly than dogs. But, the other of the two, being angry likewise, struck the man in like manner with his arm; the look and bearing of the brothers were then so exactly alike, that I then first perceived them to be twin brothers. 

"From the time of our alighting at the outer gate (which we found locked, and which one of the brothers had opened to admit us, and had relocked), I had heard cries proceeding from an upper chamber. I was conducted to this chamber straight, the cries growing louder as we ascended the stairs, and I found a patient in a high fever of the brain, lying on a bed. 

"The patient was a woman of great beauty, and young; assuredly not much past twenty. Her hair was torn and ragged, and her arms were bound to her sides with sashes and handkerchiefs. I noticed that these bonds were all portions of a gentleman's dress. On one of them, which was a fringed scarf for a dress of ceremony, I saw the armorial bearings of a Noble, and the letter E. 

"I saw this, within the first minute of my contemplation of the patient; for, in her restless strivings she had turned over on her face on the edge of the bed, had drawn the end of the scarf into her mouth, and was in danger of suffocation. My first act was to put out my hand to relieve her breathing; and in moving the scarf aside, the embroidery in the corner caught my sight. 

"I turned her gently over, placed my hands upon her breast to calm her and keep her down, and looked into her face. Her eyes were dilated and wild, and she constantly uttered piercing shrieks, and repeated the words, &bquo;My husband, my father, and my brother!' and then counted up to twelve, and said, &bquo;Hush!' For an instant, and no more, she would pause to listen, and then the piercing shrieks would begin again, and she would repeat the cry, &bquo;My husband, my father, and my brother!' and would count up to twelve, and say, &bquo;Hush!' There was no variation in the order, or the manner. There was no cessation, but the regular moment's pause, in the utterance of these sounds. 

"&bquo;How long, ' I asked, &bquo;has this lasted?' 

"To distinguish the brothers, I will call them the elder and the younger; by the elder, I mean him who exercised the most authority. It was the elder who replied, &bquo;Since about this hour last night.' 

"&bquo;She has a husband, a father, and a brother?' 

"&bquo;A brother.' 

"&bquo;I do not address her brother?' 

"He answered with great contempt, &bquo;No.' 

"&bquo;She has some recent association with the number twelve?' 

"The younger brother impatiently rejoined, &bquo;With twelve o'clock?' 

"&bquo;See, gentlemen,' said I, still keeping my hands upon her breast, 'how useless I am, as you have brought me! If I had known what I was coming to see, I could have come provided. As it is, time must be lost. There are no medicines to be obtained in this lonely place.' 

"The elder brother looked to the younger, who said haughtily, &bquo;There is a case of medicines here;' and brought it from a closet, and put it on the table. 

"I opened some of the bottles, smelt them, and put the stoppers to my lips. If I had wanted to use anything save narcotic medicines that were poisons in themselves, I would not have administered any of those. 

"&bquo;Do you doubt them?' asked the younger brother. 

"&bquo;You see, monsieur, I am going to use them,' I replied, and said no more. 

"I made the patient swallow, with great difficulty, and after many efforts, the dose that I desired to give. As I intended to repeat it after a while, and as it was necessary to watch its influence, I then sat down by the side of the bed. There was a timid and suppressed woman in attendance (wife of the man down-stairs), who had retreated into a corner. The house was damp and decayed, indifferently furnished -- evidently, recently occupied and temporarily used. Some thick old hangings had been nailed up before the windows, to deaden the sound of the shrieks. They continued to be uttered in their regular succession, with the cry, &bquo;My husband, my father, and my brother!' the counting up to twelve, and &bquo;Hush!' The frenzy was so violent, that I had not unfastened the bandages restraining the arms; but, I had looked to them, to see that they were not painful. The only spark of encouragement in the case, was, that my hand upon the sufferer's breast had this much soothing influence, that for minutes at a time it tranquillised the figure. It had no effect upon the cries; no pendulum could be more regular. 

"For the reason that my hand had this effect (I assume), I had sat by the side of the bed for half an hour, with the two brothers looking on, before the elder said: 

"&bquo;There is another patient.' 

"I was startled, and asked, &bquo;Is it a pressing case?' 

"&bquo;You had better see,' he carelessly answered; and took up a light. 

"The other patient lay in a back room across a second staircase, which was a species of loft over a stable. There was a low plastered ceiling to a part of it; the rest was open, to the ridge of the tiled roof, and there were beams across. Hay and straw were stored in that portion of the place, fagots for firing, and a heap of apples in sand. I had to pass through that part, to get at the other. My memory is circumstantial and unshaken. I try it with these details, and I see them all, in this my cell in the Bastille, near the close of the tenth year of my captivity, as I saw them all that night. 

"On some hay on the ground, with a cushion thrown under his head, lay a handsome peasant boy -- a boy of not more than seventeen at the most. He lay on his back, with his teeth set, his right hand clenched on his breast, and his glaring eyes looking straight upward. I could not see where his wound was, as I kneeled on one knee over him; but, I could see that he was dying of a wound from a sharp point. 

"&bquo;I am a doctor, my poor fellow, ' said I. &bquo;Let me examine it.' 

"&bquo;I do not want it examined, ' he answered; &bquo;let it be.' 

"It was under his hand, and I soothed him to let me move his hand away. The wound was a sword-thrust, received from twenty to twenty- four hours before, but no skill could have saved him if it had been looked to without delay. He was then dying fast. As I turned my eyes to the elder brother, I saw him looking down at this handsome boy whose life was ebbing out, as if he were a wounded bird, or hare, or rabbit; not at all as if he were a fellow-creature. 

"&bquo;How has this been done, monsieur?' said I. 

"&bquo;A crazed young common dog! A serf! Forced my brother to draw upon him, and has fallen by my brother's sword -- like a gentleman.' 

"There was no touch of pity, sorrow, or kindred humanity, in this answer. The speaker seemed to acknowledge that it was inconvenient to have that different order of creature dying there, and that it would have been better if he had died in the usual obscure routine of his vermin kind. He was quite incapable of any compassionate feeling about the boy, or about his fate. 

"The boy's eyes had slowly moved to him as he had spoken, and they now slowly moved to me. 

"&bquo;Doctor, they are very proud, these Nobles; but we common dogs are proud too, sometimes. They plunder us, outrage us, beat us, kill us; but we have a little pride left, sometimes. She -- have you seen her, Doctor?' 

"The shrieks and the cries were audible there, though subdued by the distance. He referred to them, as if she were lying in our presence. 

"I said, &bquo;I have seen her.' 

"&bquo;She is my sister, Doctor. They have had their shameful rights, these Nobles, in the modesty and virtue of our sisters, many years, but we have had good girls among us. I know it, and have heard my father say so. She was a good girl. She was betrothed to a good young man, too: a tenant of his. We were all tenants of his -- that man's who stands there. The other is his brother, the worst of a bad race.' 

"It was with the greatest difficulty that the boy gathered bodily force to speak; but, his spirit spoke with a dreadful emphasis. 

"&bquo;We were so robbed by that man who stands there, as all we common dogs are by those superior Beings -- taxed by him without mercy, obliged to work for him without pay, obliged to grind our corn at his mill, obliged to feed scores of his tame birds on our wretched crops, and forbidden for our lives to keep a single tame bird of our own, pillaged and plundered to that degree that when we chanced to have a bit of meat, we ate it in fear, with the door barred and the shutters closed, that his people should not see it and take it from us -- I say, we were so robbed, and hunted, and were made so poor, that our father told us it was a dreadful thing to bring a child into the world, and that what we should most pray for, was, that our women might be barren and our miserable race die out!' 

"I had never before seen the sense of being oppressed, bursting forth like a fire. I had supposed that it must be latent in the people somewhere; but, I had never seen it break out, until I saw it in the dying boy. 

"&bquo;Nevertheless, Doctor, my sister married. He was ailing at that time, poor fellow, and she married her lover, that she might tend and comfort him in our cottage -- our dog-hut, as that man would call it. She had not been married many weeks, when that man's brother saw her and admired her, and asked that man to lend her to him -- for what are husbands among us! He was willing enough, but my sister was good and virtuous, and hated his brother with a hatred as strong as mine. What did the two then, to persuade her husband to use his influence with her, to make her willing?' 

"The boy's eyes, which had been fixed on mine, slowly turned to the looker-on, and I saw in the two faces that all he said was true. The two opposing kinds of pride confronting one another, I can see, even in this Bastille; the gentleman's, all negligent indifference; the peasants, all trodden-down sentiment, and passionate revenge. 

"&bquo;You know, Doctor, that it is among the Rights of these Nobles to harness us common dogs to carts, and drive us. They so harnessed him and drove him. You know that it is among their Rights to keep us in their grounds all night, quieting the frogs, in order that their noble sleep may not be disturbed. They kept him out in the unwholesome mists at night, and ordered him back into his harness in the day. But he was not persuaded. No! Taken out of harness one day at noon, to feed -- if he could find food -- he sobbed twelve times, once for every stroke of the bell, and died on her bosom.' 

"Nothing human could have held life in the boy but his determination to tell all his wrong. He forced back the gathering shadows of death, as he forced his clenched right hand to remain clenched, and to cover his wound. 

"&bquo;Then, with that man's permission and even with his aid, his brother took her away; in spite of what I know she must have told his brother -- and what that is, will not be long unknown to you, Doctor, if it is now -- his brother took her away -- for his pleasure and diversion, for a little while. I saw her pass me on the road. When I took the tidings home, our father's heart burst; he never spoke one of the words that filled it. I took my young sister (for I have another) to a place beyond the reach of this man, and where, at least, she will never be _his_ vassal. Then, I tracked the brother here, and last night climbed in -- a common dog, but sword in hand.-- Where is the loft window? It was somewhere here?' 

"The room was darkening to his sight; the world was narrowing around him. I glanced about me, and saw that the hay and straw were trampled over the floor, as if there had been a struggle. 

"&bquo;She heard me, and ran in. I told her not to come near us till he was dead. He came in and first tossed me some pieces of money; then struck at me with a whip. But I, though a common dog, so struck at him as to make him draw. Let him break into as many pieces as he will, the sword that he stained with my common blood; he drew to defend himself -- thrust at me with all his skill for his life.' 

"My glance had fallen, but a few moments before, on the fragments of a broken sword, lying among the hay. That weapon was a gentleman's. In another place, lay an old sword that seemed to have been a soldier's. 

"&bquo;Now, lift me up, Doctor; lift me up. Where is he?' 

"&bquo;He is not here,' I said, supporting the boy, and thinking that he referred to the brother. 

"&bquo;He! Proud as these nobles are, he is afraid to see me. Where is the man who was here? Turn my face to him.' 

"I did so, raising the boy's head against my knee. But, invested for the moment with extraordinary power, he raised himself completely: obliging me to rise too, or I could not have still supported him. 

"&bquo;Marquis, ' said the boy, turned to him with his eyes opened wide, and his right hand raised, &bquo;in the days when all these things are to be answered for, I summon you and yours, to the last of your bad race, to answer for them. I mark this cross of blood upon you, as a sign that I do it. In the days when all these things are to be answered for, I summon your brother, the worst of the bad race, to answer for them separately. I mark this cross of blood upon him, as a sign that I do it.' 

"Twice, he put his hand to the wound in his breast, and with his forefinger drew a cross in the air. He stood for an instant with the finger yet raised, and as it dropped, he dropped with it, and I laid him down dead. 

"When I returned to the bedside of the young woman, I found her raving in precisely the same order of continuity. I knew that this might last for many hours, and that it would probably end in the silence of the grave. 

"I repeated the medicines I had given her, and I sat at the side of the bed until the night was far advanced. She never abated the piercing quality of her shrieks, never stumbled in the distinctness or the order of her words. They were always &bquo;My husband, my father, and my brother! One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. Hush!' 

"This lasted twenty-six hours from the time when I first saw her. I had come and gone twice, and was again sitting by her, when she began to falter. I did what little could be done to assist that opportunity, and by-and-bye she sank into a lethargy, and lay like the dead. 

"It was as if the wind and rain had lulled at last, after a long and fearful storm. I released her arms, and called the woman to assist me to compose her figure and the dress she had torn. It was then that I knew her condition to be that of one in whom the first expectations of being a mother have arisen; and it was then that I lost the little hope I had had of her. 

"&bquo;Is she dead?' asked the Marquis, whom I will still describe as the elder brother, coming booted into the room from his horse. 

"&bquo;Not dead, ' said I; &bquo;but like to die.' 

"&bquo;What strength there is in these common bodies!' he said, looking down at her with some curiosity. 

"&bquo;There is prodigious strength, ' I answered him, &bquo;in sorrow and despair.' 

"He first laughed at my words, and then frowned at them. He moved a chair with his foot near to mine, ordered the woman away, and said in a subdued voice, 

"&bquo;Doctor, finding my brother in this difficulty with these hinds, I recommended that your aid should be invited. Your reputation is high, and, as a young man with your fortune to make, you are probably mindful of your interest. The things that you see here, are things to be seen, and not spoken of.' 

"I listened to the patient's breathing, and avoided answering. 

"&bquo;Do you honour me with your attention, Doctor?' 

"&bquo;Monsieur, ' said I, &bquo;in my profession, the communications of patients are always received in confidence.' I was guarded in my answer, for I was troubled in my mind with what I had heard and seen. 

"Her breathing was so difficult to trace, that I carefully tried the pulse and the heart. There was life, and no more. Looking round as I resumed my seat, I found both the brothers intent upon me. 

"I write with so much difficulty, the cold is so severe, I am so fearful of being detected and consigned to an underground cell and total darkness, that I must abridge this narrative. There is no confusion or failure in my memory; it can recall, and could detail, every word that was ever spoken between me and those brothers. 

"She lingered for a week. Towards the last, I could understand some few syllables that she said to me, by placing my ear close to her lips. She asked me where she was, and I told her; who I was, and I told her. It was in vain that I asked her for her family name. She faintly shook her head upon the pillow, and kept her secret, as the boy had done. 

"I had no opportunity of asking her any question, until I had told the brothers she was sinking fast, and could not live another day. Until then, though no one was ever presented to her consciousness save the woman and myself, one or other of them had always jealously sat behind the curtain at the head of the bed when I was there. But when it came to that, they seemed careless what communication I might hold with her; as if -- the thought passed through my mind -- I were dying too. 

"I always observed that their pride bitterly resented the younger brother's (as I call him) having crossed swords with a peasant, and that peasant a boy. The only consideration that appeared to affect the mind of either of them was the consideration that this was highly degrading to the family, and was ridiculous. As often as I caught the younger brother's eyes, their expression reminded me that he disliked me deeply, for knowing what I knew from the boy. He was smoother and more polite to me than the elder; but I saw this. I also saw that I was an incumbrance in the mind of the elder, too. 

"My patient died, two hours before midnight -- at a time, by my watch, answering almost to the minute when I had first seen her. I was alone with her, when her forlorn young head drooped gently on one side, and all her earthly wrongs and sorrows ended. 

"The brothers were waiting in a room down-stairs, impatient to ride away. I had heard them, alone at the bedside, striking their boots with their riding-whips, and loitering up and down. 

"&bquo;At last she is dead?' said the elder, when I went in. 

"&bquo;She is dead,' said I. 

"&bquo;I congratulate you, my brother,' were his words as he turned round. 

"He had before offered me money, which I had postponed taking. He now gave me a rouleau of gold. I took it from his hand, but laid it on the table. I had considered the question, and had resolved to accept nothing. 

"&bquo;Pray excuse me, ' said I. &bquo;Under the circumstances, no.' 

"They exchanged looks, but bent their heads to me as I bent mine to them, and we parted without another word on either side. 

"I am weary, weary, weary -- worn down by misery. I cannot read what I have written with this gaunt hand. 

"Early in the morning, the rouleau of gold was left at my door in a little box, with my name on the outside. From the first, I had anxiously considered what I ought to do. I decided, that day, to write privately to the Minister, stating the nature of the two cases to which I had been summoned, and the place to which I had gone: in effect, stating all the circumstances. I knew what Court influence was, and what the immunities of the Nobles were, and I expected that the matter would never be heard of; but, I wished to relieve my own mind. I had kept the matter a profound secret, even from my wife; and this, too, I resolved to state in my letter. I had no apprehension whatever of my real danger; but I was conscious that there might be danger for others, if others were compromised by possessing the knowledge that I possessed. 

"I was much engaged that day, and could not complete my letter that night. I rose long before my usual time next morning to finish it. It was the last day of the year. The letter was lying before me just completed, when I was told that a lady waited, who wished to see me. 

"I am growing more and more unequal to the task I have set myself. It is so cold, so dark, my senses are so benumbed, and the gloom upon me is so dreadful. 

"The lady was young, engaging, and handsome, but not marked for long life. She was in great agitation. She presented herself to me as the wife of the Marquis St. Evremonde. I connected the title by which the boy had addressed the elder brother, with the initial letter embroidered on the scarf, and had no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that I had seen that nobleman very lately. 

"My memory is still accurate, but I cannot write the words of our conversation. I suspect that I am watched more closely than I was, and I know not at what times I may be watched. She had in part suspected, and in part discovered, the main facts of the cruel story, of her husband's share in it, and my being resorted to. She did not know that the girl was dead. Her hope had been, she said in great distress, to show her, in secret, a woman's sympathy. Her hope had been to avert the wrath of Heaven from a House that had long been hateful to the suffering many. 

"She had reasons for believing that there was a young sister living, and her greatest desire was, to help that sister. I could tell her nothing but that there was such a sister; beyond that, I knew nothing. Her inducement to come to me, relying on my confidence, had been the hope that I could tell her the name and place of abode. Whereas, to this wretched hour I am ignorant of both. 

"These scraps of paper fail me. One was taken from me, with a warning, yesterday. I must finish my record to-day. 

"She was a good, compassionate lady, and not happy in her marriage. How could she be! The brother distrusted and disliked her, and his influence was all opposed to her; she stood in dread of him, and in dread of her husband too. When I handed her down to the door, there was a child, a pretty boy from two to three years old, in her carriage. 

"&bquo;For his sake, Doctor, ' she said, pointing to him in tears, &bquo;I would do all I can to make what poor amends I can. He will never prosper in his inheritance otherwise. I have a presentiment that if no other innocent atonement is made for this, it will one day be required of him. What I have left to call my own -- it is little beyond the worth of a few jewels -- I will make it the first charge of his life to bestow, with the compassion and lamenting of his dead mother, on this injured family, if the sister can be discovered.' 

"She kissed the boy, and said, caressing him, &bquo;It is for thine own dear sake. Thou wilt be faithful, little Charles?' The child answered her bravely, &bquo;Yes!' I kissed her hand, and she took him in her arms, and went away caressing him. I never saw her more. 

"As she had mentioned her husband's name in the faith that I knew it, I added no mention of it to my letter. I sealed my letter, and, not trusting it out of my own hands, delivered it myself that day. 

"That night, the last night of the year, towards nine o'clock, a man in a black dress rang at my gate, demanded to see me, and softly followed my servant, Ernest Defarge, a youth, up-stairs. When my servant came into the room where I sat with my wife -- O my wife, beloved of my heart! My fair young English wife!-- we saw the man, who was supposed to be at the gate, standing silent behind him. 

"An urgent case in the Rue St. Honore, he said. It would not detain me, he had a coach in waiting. 

"It brought me here, it brought me to my grave. When I was clear of the house, a black muffler was drawn tightly over my mouth from behind, and my arms were pinioned. The two brothers crossed the road from a dark corner, and identified me with a single gesture. The Marquis took from his pocket the letter I had written, showed it me, burnt it in the light of a lantern that was held, and extinguished the ashes with his foot. Not a word was spoken. I was brought here, I was brought to my living grave. 

"If it had pleased _God_ to put it in the hard heart of either of the brothers, in all these frightful years, to grant me any tidings of my dearest wife -- so much as to let me know by a word whether alive or dead -- I might have thought that He had not quite abandoned them. But, now I believe that the mark of the red cross is fatal to them, and that they have no part in His mercies. And them and their descendants, to the last of their race, I, Alexandre Manette, unhappy prisoner, do this last night of the year 1767, in my unbearable agony, denounce to the times when all these things shall be answered for. I denounce them to Heaven and to earth
Much influence around him, has that Doctor
Save him now, my Doctor, save him
If I might touch him! If I might embrace him once! O, good citizens, if you would have so much compassion for us
Let her embrace him then; it is but a moment
Farewell, dear darling of my soul. My parting blessing on my love. We shall meet again, where the weary are at rest
I can bear it, dear Charles. I am supported from above: don't suffer for me. A parting blessing for our child
I send it to her by you. I kiss her by you. I say farewell to her by you
My husband. No! A moment
We shall not be separated long. I feel that this will break my heart by-and-bye; but I will do my duty while I can, and when I leave her, God will raise up friends for her, as He did for me
No, no! What have you done, what have you done, that you should kneel to us! We know now, what a struggle you made of old. We know, now what you underwent when you suspected my descent, and when you knew it. We know now, the natural antipathy you strove against, and conquered, for her dear sake. We thank you with all our hearts, and all our love and duty. Heaven be with you
It could not be otherwise
All things have worked together as they have fallen out. It was the always-vain endeavour to discharge my poor mother's trust that first brought my fatal presence near you. Good could never come of such evil, a happier end was not in nature to so unhappy a beginning. Be comforted, and forgive me. Heaven bless you
Shall I take her to a coach? I shall never feel her weight
Don't recall her to herself
she is better so. Don't revive her to consciousness, while she only faints
Oh, Carton, Carton, dear Carton
Now that you have come, I think you will do something to help mamma, something to save papa! O, look at her, dear Carton! Can you, of all the people who love her, bear to see her so
Before I go
I may kiss her
A life you love
You had great influence but yesterday, Doctor Manette; let it at least be tried. These judges, and all the men in power, are very friendly to you, and very recognisant of your services; are they not
Nothing connected with Charles was concealed from me. I had the strongest assurances that I should save him; and I did
Try them again. The hours between this and to-morrow afternoon are few and short, but try
I intend to try. I will not rest a moment
That's well. I have known such energy as yours do great things before now -- though never
such great things as this. But try! Of little worth as life is when we misuse it, it is worth that effort. It would cost nothing to lay down if it were not
I will go
to the Prosecutor and the President straight, and I will go to others whom it is better not to name. I will write too, and -- But stay! There is a Celebration in the streets, and no one will be accessible until dark
That's true. Well! It is a forlorn hope at the best, and not much the forlorner for being delayed till dark. I should like to know how you speed; though, mind! I expect nothing! When are you likely to have seen these dread powers, Doctor Manette
Immediately after dark, I should hope. Within an hour or two from this
It will be dark soon after four. Let us stretch the hour or two. If I go to Mr. Lorry's at nine, shall I hear what you have done, either from our friend or from yourself
Yes
May you prosper
I have no hope
Nor have I
If any one of these men, or all of these men, were disposed to spare him -- which is a large supposition; for what is his life, or any man's to them!-- I doubt if they durst spare him after the demonstration in the court
And so do I. I heard the fall of the axe in that sound
Don't despond
don't grieve. I encouraged Doctor Manette in this idea, because I felt that it might one day be consolatory to her. Otherwise, she might think &bquo;his life was want only thrown away or wasted,' and that might trouble her
Yes, yes, yes
you are right. But he will perish; there is no real hope
Yes. He will perish: there is no real hope
At Tellson's banking-house at nine
Shall I do well, in the mean time, to show myself? I think so. It is best that these people should know there is such a man as I here; it is a sound precaution, and may be a necessary preparation. But care, care, care! Let me think it out
It is best
that these people should know there is such a man as I here
English
Yes, madame, yes. I am English
I swear to you, like Evremonde
How
Good evening
Oh! Good evening, citizen
Ah! and good wine. I drink to the Republic
Certainly, a little like
I tell you a good deal like
He is so much in your mind, see you, madame
Yes, my faith! And you are looking forward with so much pleasure to seeing him once more to-morrow
It is true what madame says
Why stop? There is great force in that. Why stop
Well, well
but one must stop somewhere. After all, the question is still where
At extermination
Magnificent
Extermination is good doctrine, my wife
in general, I say nothing against it. But this Doctor has suffered much; you have seen him to-day; you have observed his face when the paper was read
I have observed his face
Yes. I have observed his face. I have observed his face to be not the face of a true friend of the Republic. Let him take care of his face
And you have observed, my wife
the anguish of his daughter, which must be a dreadful anguish to him
I have observed his daughter
yes, I have observed his daughter, more times than one. I have observed her to-day, and I have observed her other days. I have observed her in the court, and I have observed her in the street by the prison. Let me but lift my finger
The citizeness is superb
She is an Angel
As to thee
if it depended on thee -- which, happily, it does not -- thou wouldst rescue this man even now
No
Not if to lift this glass would do it! But I would leave the matter there. I say, stop there
See you then, Jacques
and see you, too, my little Vengeance; see you both! Listen! For other crimes as tyrants and oppressors, I have this race a long time on my register, doomed to destruction and extermination. Ask my husband, is that so
It is so
In the beginning of the great days, when the Bastille falls, he finds this paper of to-day, and he brings it home, and in the middle of the night when this place is clear and shut, we read it, here on this spot, by the light of this lamp. Ask him, is that so
It is so
That night, I tell him, when the paper is read through, and the lamp is burnt out, and the day is gleaming in above those shutters and between those iron bars, that I have now a secret to communicate. Ask him, is that so
It is so
I communicate to him that secret. I smite this bosom with these two hands as I smite it now, and I tell him, &bquo;Defarge, I was brought up among the fishermen of the sea-shore, and that peasant family so injured by the two Evremonde brothers, as that Bastille paper describes, is my family. Defarge, that sister of the mortally wounded boy upon the ground was my sister, that husband was my sister's husband, that unborn child was their child, that brother was my brother, that father was my father, those dead are my dead, and that summons to answer for those things descends to me!' Ask him, is that so
It is so
Then tell Wind and Fire where to stop
but don't tell me
Tell the Wind and the Fire where to stop; not me
I cannot find it
and I must have it. Where is it
Where is my bench? I have been looking everywhere for my bench, and I can't find it. What have they done with my work? Time presses: I must finish those shoes
Come, come
let me get to work. Give me my work
Don't torture a poor forlorn wretch
but give me my work! What is to become of us, if those shoes are not done to-night
The last chance is gone: it was not much. Yes; he had better be taken to her. But, before you go, will you, for a moment, steadily attend to me? Don't ask me why I make the stipulations I am going to make, and exact the promise I am going to exact; I have a reason -- a good one
I do not doubt it
Say on
We should look at this
Thank _God
What is it
A moment! Let me speak of it in its place. First
that is the certificate which enables me to pass out of this city. Look at it. You see -- Sydney Carton, an Englishman
Keep it for me until to-morrow. I shall see him to-morrow, you remember, and I had better not take it into the prison
Why not
I don't know; I prefer not to do so. Now, take this paper that Doctor Manette has carried about him. It is a similar certificate, enabling him and his daughter and her child, at any time, to pass the barrier and the frontier! You see
Yes
Perhaps he obtained it as his last and utmost precaution against evil, yesterday. When is it dated? But no matter; don't stay to look; put it up carefully with mine and your own. Now, observe! I never doubted until within this hour or two, that he had, or could have such a paper. It is good, until recalled. But it may be soon recalled, and, I have reason to think, will be
They are not in danger
They are in great danger. They are in danger of denunciation by Madame Defarge. I know it from her own lips. I have overheard words of that woman's, to-night, which have presented their danger to me in strong colours. I have lost no time, and since then, I have seen the spy. He confirms me. He knows that a wood-sawyer, living by the prison wall, is under the control of the Defarges, and has been rehearsed by Madame Defarge as to his having seen Her
making signs and signals to prisoners. It is easy to foresee that the pretence will be the common one, a prison plot, and that it will involve her life -- and perhaps her child's -- and perhaps her father's -- for both have been seen with her at that place. Don't look so horrified. You will save them all
Heaven grant I may, Carton! But how
I am going to tell you how. It will depend on you, and it could depend on no better man. This new denunciation will certainly not take place until after to-morrow; probably not until two or three days afterwards; more probably a week afterwards. You know it is a capital crime, to mourn for, or sympathise with, a victim of the Guillotine. She and her father would unquestionably be guilty of this crime, and this woman (the inveteracy of whose pursuit cannot be described) would wait to add that strength to her case, and make herself doubly sure. You follow me
So attentively, and with so much confidence in what you say, that for the moment I lose sight
even of this distress
You have money, and can buy the means of travelling to the seacoast as quickly as the journey can be made. Your preparations have been completed for some days, to return to England. Early to-morrow have your horses ready, so that they may be in starting trim at two o'clock in the afternoon
It shall be done
You are a noble heart. Did I say we could depend upon no better man? Tell her, to-night, what you know of her danger as involving her child and her father. Dwell upon that, for she would lay her own fair head beside her husband's cheerfully
For the sake of her child and her father, press upon her the necessity of leaving Paris, with them and you, at that hour. Tell her that it was her husband's last arrangement. Tell her that more depends upon it than she dare believe, or hope. You think that her father, even in this sad state, will submit himself to her; do you not
I am sure of it
I thought so. Quietly and steadily have all these arrangements made in the courtyard here, even to the taking of your own seat in the carriage. The moment I come to you, take me in, and drive away
I understand that I wait for you under all circumstances
You have my certificate in your hand with the rest, you know, and will reserve my place. Wait for nothing but to have my place occupied, and then for England
Why, then
it does not all depend on one old man, but I shall have a young and ardent man at my side
By the help of Heaven you shall! Promise me solemnly that nothing will influence you to alter the course on which we now stand pledged to one another
Nothing, Carton
Remember these words to-morrow: change the course, or delay in it -- for any reason -- and no life can possibly be saved, and many lives must inevitably be sacrificed
I will remember them. I hope to do my part faithfully
And I hope to do mine. Now, good bye
this is the day of my death
There is but another now
He has never seen me here; I have kept out of his way. Go you in alone; I wait near. Lose no time
Of all the people upon earth, you least expected to see me
I could not believe it to be you. I can scarcely believe it now. You are not
a prisoner
No. I am accidentally possessed of a power over one of the keepers here, and in virtue of it I stand before you. I come from her -- your wife, dear Darnay
I bring you a request from her
What is it
A most earnest, pressing, and emphatic entreaty, addressed to you in the most pathetic tones of the voice so dear to you, that you well remember
You have no time to ask me why I bring it, or what it means; I have no time to tell you. You must comply with it -- take off those boots you wear, and draw on these of mine
Draw on these boots of mine. Put your hands to them; put your will to them. Quick
Carton, there is no escaping from this place; it never can be done. You will only die with me. It is madness
It would be madness if I asked you to escape; but do I? When I ask you to pass out at that door, tell me it is madness and remain here. Change that cravat for this of mine, that coat for this of mine. While you do it, let me take this ribbon from your hair, and shake out your hair like this of mine
Carton! Dear Carton! It is madness. It cannot be accomplished, it never can be done, it has been attempted, and has always failed. I implore you not to add your death to the bitterness of mine
Do I ask you, my dear Darnay, to pass the door? When I ask that, refuse. There are pen and ink and paper on this table. Is your hand steady enough to write
It was when you came in
Steady it again, and write what I shall dictate. Quick, friend, quick
Write exactly as I speak
To whom do I address it
To no one
Do I date it
No
If you remember
the words that passed between us, long ago, you will readily comprehend this when you see it. You do remember them, I know. It is not in your nature to forget them
Have you written &bquo;forget them
I have. Is that a weapon in your hand
No; I am not armed
What is it in your hand
You shall know directly. Write on; there are but a few words more
I am thankful that the time has come, when I can prove them. That I do so is no subject for regret or grief
What vapour is that
Vapour
Something that crossed me
I am conscious of nothing; there can be nothing here. Take up the pen and finish. Hurry, hurry
Hurry, hurry
If it had been otherwise
I never should have used the longer opportunity. If it had been otherwise
I should but have had so much the more to answer for. If it had been otherwise
Enter there! Come in
You see
is your hazard very great
Mr. Carton
my hazard is not _that_, in the thick of business here, if you are true to the whole of your bargain
Don't fear me. I will be true to the death
You must be, Mr. Carton, if the tale of fifty-two is to be right. Being made right by you in that dress, I shall have no fear
Have no fear! I shall soon be out of the way of harming you, and the rest will soon be far from here, please God! Now, get assistance and take me to the coach
You
Him, man, with whom I have exchanged. You go out at the gate by which you brought me in
Of course
I was weak and faint when you brought me in, and I am fainter now you take me out. The parting interview has overpowered me. Such a thing has happened here, often, and too often. Your life is in your own hands. Quick! Call assistance
You swear not to betray me
Man, man
have I sworn by no solemn vow already, to go through with this, that you waste the precious moments now? Take him yourself to the courtyard you know of, place him yourself in the carriage, show him yourself to Mr. Lorry, tell him yourself to give him no restorative but air, and to remember my words of last night, and his promise of last night, and drive away
How, then
So afflicted to find that his friend has drawn a prize in the lottery of Sainte Guillotine
A good patriot
could hardly have been more afflicted if the Aristocrat had drawn a blank
The time is short, Evremonde
I know it well
Be careful of my friend, I entreat you, and leave me
Come, then, my children
Lift him, and come away
Follow me, Evremonde
Citizen Evremonde
I am a poor little seamstress, who was with you in La Force
True. I forget what you were accused of
Plots. Though the just Heaven knows that I am innocent of any. Is it likely? Who would think of plotting with a poor little weak creature like me
I am not afraid to die, Citizen Evremonde, but I have done nothing. I am not unwilling to die, if the Republic which is to do so much good to us poor, will profit by my death; but I do not know how that can be, Citizen Evremonde. Such a poor weak little creature
I heard you were released, Citizen Evremonde. I hoped it was true
It was. But, I was again taken and condemned
If I may ride with you, Citizen Evremonde, will you let me hold your hand? I am not afraid, but I am little and weak, and it will give me more courage
Are you dying for him
And his wife and child. Hush! Yes
O you will let me hold your brave hand, stranger
Hush! Yes, my poor sister; to the last
Who goes here? Whom have we within? Papers
Alexandre Manette. Physician. French. Which is he
Apparently the Citizen-Doctor is not in his right mind? The Revolution-fever will have been too much for him
Hah! Many suffer with it. Lucie. His daughter. French. Which is she
Apparently it must be. Lucie, the wife of Evremonde; is it not
Hah! Evremonde has an assignation elsewhere. Lucie, her child. English. This is she
Kiss me, child of Evremonde. Now, thou hast kissed a good Republican; something new in thy family; remember it! Sydney Carton. Advocate. English. Which is he
Apparently the English advocate is in a swoon
Is that all? It is not a great deal, that! Many are under the displeasure of the Republic, and must look out at the little window. Jarvis Lorry. Banker. English. Which is he
I am he. Necessarily, being the last
Behold your papers, Jarvis Lorry, countersigned
One can depart, citizen
One can depart. Forward, my postilions! A good journey
I salute you, citizens.-- And the first danger passed
Are we not going too slowly? Can they not be induced to go faster
It would seem like flight, my darling. I must not urge them too much; it would rouse suspicion
Look back, look back, and see if we are pursued
The road is clear, my dearest. So far, we are not pursued
Ho! Within the carriage there. Speak then
What is it
How many did they say
I do not understand you
At the last post. How many to the Guillotine to-day
Fifty-two
I said so! A brave number! My fellow-citizen here would have it forty-two; ten more heads are worth having. The Guillotine goes handsomely. I love it. Hi forward. Whoop
But our Defarge
is undoubtedly a good Republican? Eh
There is no better
in France
Peace, little Vengeance
hear me speak. My husband, fellow-citizen, is a good Republican and a bold man; he has deserved well of the Republic, and possesses its confidence. But my husband has his weaknesses, and he is so weak as to relent towards this Doctor
It is a great pity
it is not quite like a good citizen; it is a thing to regret
See you
I care nothing for this Doctor, I. He may wear his head or lose it, for any interest I have in him; it is all one to me. But, the Evremonde people are to be exterminated, and the wife and child must follow the husband and father
She has a fine head for it
I have seen blue eyes and golden hair there, and they looked charming when Samson held them up
The child also
has golden hair and blue eyes. And we seldom have a child there. It is a pretty sight
In a word
I cannot trust my husband in this matter. Not only do I feel, since last night, that I dare not confide to him the details of my projects; but also I feel that if I delay, there is danger of his giving warning, and then they might escape
That must never be
no one must escape. We have not half enough as it is. We ought to have six score a day
In a word
my husband has not my reason for pursuing this family to annihilation, and I have not his reason for regarding this Doctor with any sensibility. I must act for myself, therefore. Come hither, little citizen
Touching those signals, little citizen
that she made to the prisoners; you are ready to bear witness to them this very day
Ay, ay, why not
Every day, in all weathers, from two to four, always signalling, sometimes with the little one, sometimes without. I know what I know. I have seen with my eyes
Clearly plots
Transparently
There is no doubt of the Jury
Rely upon the patriotic Jury, dear citizeness. I answer for my fellow-Jurymen
Now, let me see
Yet once more! Can I spare this Doctor to my husband? I have no feeling either way. Can I spare him
He would count as one head
We really have not heads enough; it would be a pity, I think
He was signalling with her when I saw her
I cannot speak of one without the other; and I must not be silent, and trust the case wholly to him, this little citizen here. For, I am not a bad witness
He must take his chance
No, I cannot spare him! You are engaged at three o'clock; you are going to see the batch of to-day executed.-- You
I
am equally engaged at the same place. After it is over -- say at eight to-night -- come you to me, in Saint Antoine, and we will give information against these people at my Section
She will now be at home, awaiting the moment of his death. She will be mourning and grieving. She will be in a state of mind to impeach the justice of the Republic. She will be full of sympathy with its enemies. I will go to her
What an admirable woman; what an adorable woman
Ah, my cherished
Take you my knitting
and have it ready for me in my usual seat. Keep me my usual chair. Go you there, straight, for there will probably be a greater concourse than usual, to-day
I willingly obey the orders of my Chief
You will not be late
I shall be there before the commencement
And before the tumbrils arrive. Be sure you are there, my soul
before the tumbrils arrive
Now what do you think, Mr. Cruncher
what do you think of our not starting from this courtyard? Another carriage having already gone from here to-day, it might awaken suspicion
My opinion, miss
is as you're right. Likewise wot I'll stand by you, right or wrong
I am so distracted with fear and hope for our precious creatures
that I am incapable of forming any plan. Are _you_ capable of forming any plan, my dear good Mr. Cruncher
Respectin' a future spear o' life, miss
I hope so. Respectin' any present use o' this here blessed old head o' mine, I think not. Would you do me the favour, miss, to take notice o' two promises and wows wot it is my wishes fur to record in this here crisis
Oh, for gracious sake
record them at once, and get them out of the way, like an excellent man
First
them poor things well out o' this, never no more will I do it, never no more
I am quite sure, Mr. Cruncher
that you never will do it again, whatever it is, and I beg you not to think it necessary to mention more particularly what it is
No, miss
it shall not be named to you. Second: them poor things well out o' this, and never no more will I interfere with Mrs. Cruncher's flopping, never no more
Whatever housekeeping arrangement that may be
I have no doubt it is best that Mrs. Cruncher should have it entirely under her own superintendence.-- O my poor darlings
I go so far as to say, miss, moreover
and let my words be took down and took to Mrs. Cruncher through yourself -- that wot my opinions respectin' flopping has undergone a change, and that wot I only hope with all my heart as Mrs. Cruncher may be a flopping at the present time
There, there, there! I hope she is, my dear man
and I hope she finds it answering her expectations
Forbid it
as anything wot I have ever said or done should be wisited on my earnest wishes for them poor creeturs now! Forbid it as we shouldn't all flop (if it was anyways conwenient) to get 'em out o' this here dismal risk! Forbid it, miss! Wot I say, for-_bid_ it
If we ever get back to our native land
you may rely upon my telling Mrs. Cruncher as much as I may be able to remember and understand of what you have so impressively said; and at all events you may be sure that I shall bear witness to your being thoroughly in earnest at this dreadful time. Now, pray let us think! My esteemed Mr. Cruncher, let us think
If you were to go before
and stop the vehicle and horses from coming here, and were to wait somewhere for me; wouldn't that be best
Where could you wait for me
By the cathedral door
Would it be much out of the way, to take me in, near the great cathedral door between the two towers
No, miss
Then, like the best of men
go to the posting- house straight, and make that change
I am doubtful
about leaving of you, you see. We don't know what may happen
Heaven knows we don't
but have no fear for me. Take me in at the cathedral, at Three o'Clock, or as near it as you can, and I am sure it will be better than our going from here. I feel certain of it. There! Bless you, Mr. Cruncher! Think-not of me, but of the lives that may depend on both of us
The wife of Evremonde; where is she
You might, from your appearance, be the wife of Lucifer
Nevertheless, you shall not get the better of me. I am an Englishwoman
On my way yonder
where they reserve my chair and my knitting for me, I am come to make my compliments to her in passing. I wish to see her
I know that your intentions are evil
and you may depend upon it, I'll hold my own against them
It will do her no good to keep herself concealed from me at this moment
Good patriots will know what that means. Let me see her. Go tell her that I wish to see her. Do you hear
If those eyes of yours were bed-winches
and I was an English four-poster, they shouldn't loose a splinter of me. No, you wicked foreign woman; I am your match
Woman imbecile and pig-like
I take no answer from you. I demand to see her. Either tell her that I demand to see her, or stand out of the way of the door and let me go to her
I little thought
that I should ever want to understand your nonsensical language; but I would give all I have, except the clothes I wear, to know whether you suspect the truth, or any part of it
I am a Briton
I am desperate. I don't care an English Twopence for myself. I know that the longer I keep you here, the greater hope there is for my Ladybird. I'll not leave a handful of that dark hair upon your head, if you lay a finger on me
Ha, ha
you poor wretch! What are you worth! I address myself to that Doctor
Citizen Doctor! Wife of Evremonde! Child of Evremonde! Any person but this miserable fool, answer the Citizeness Defarge
Those rooms are all in disorder, there has been hurried packing, there are odds and ends upon the ground. There is no one in that room behind you! Let me look
Never
If they are not in that room, they are gone, and can be pursued and brought back
As long as you don't know whether they are in that room or not, you are uncertain what to do
and you shall not know that, if I can prevent your knowing it; and know that, or not know that, you shall not leave here while I can hold you
I have been in the streets from the first, nothing has stopped me, I will tear you to pieces, but I will have you from that door
We are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary courtyard, we are not likely to be heard, and I pray for bodily strength to keep you here, while every minute you are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to my darling
It is under my arm
you shall not draw it. I am stronger than you, I bless Heaven for it. I hold you till one or other of us faints or dies
Is there any noise in the streets
The usual noises
I don't hear you
What do you say
So I'll nod my head
at all events she'll see that
Is there any noise in the streets now
I don't hear it
Gone deaf in an hour
wot's come to her
I feel
as if there had been a flash and a crash, and that crash was the last thing I should ever hear in this life
Blest if she ain't in a queer condition
Wot can she have been a takin', to keep her courage up? Hark! There's the roll of them dreadful carts! You can hear that, miss
I can hear
nothing. O, my good man, there was first a great crash, and then a great stillness, and that stillness seems to be fixed and unchangeable, never to be broken any more as long as my life lasts
If she don't hear the roll of those dreadful carts, now very nigh their journey's end
it's my opinion that indeed she never will hear anything else in this world
If thou be changed into this shape by the will of God
then remain so! But, if thou wear this form through mere passing conjuration, then resume thy former aspect
Has he sacrificed me
Which is Evremonde
That. At the back there
With his hand in the girl's
Yes
Down, Evremonde! To the Guillotine all aristocrats! Down, Evremonde
Hush, hush
And why not, citizen
He is going to pay the forfeit: it will be paid in five minutes more. Let him be at peace
Down, Evremonde
Therese
Who has seen her? Therese Defarge
She never missed before
No; nor will she miss now
Therese
Louder
Bad Fortune
and here are the tumbrils! And Evremonde will be despatched in a wink, and she not here! See her knitting in my hand, and her empty chair ready for her. I cry with vexation and disappointment
But for you, dear stranger, I should not be so composed, for I am naturally a poor little thing, faint of heart; nor should I have been able to raise my thoughts to Him who was put to death, that we might have hope and comfort here to-day. I think you were sent to me by Heaven
Or you to me
Keep your eyes upon me, dear child, and mind no other object
I mind nothing while I hold your hand. I shall mind nothing when I let it go, if they are rapid
They will be rapid. Fear not
Brave and generous friend, will you let me ask you one last question? I am very ignorant, and it troubles me -- just a little
Tell me what it is
I have a cousin, an only relative and an orphan, like myself, whom I love very dearly. She is five years younger than I, and she lives in a farmer's house in the south country. Poverty parted us, and she knows nothing of my fate -- for I cannot write -- and if I could, how should I tell her! It is better as it is
Yes, yes: better as it is
What I have been thinking as we came along, and what I am still thinking now, as I look into your kind strong face which gives me so much support, is this:-- If the Republic really does good to the poor, and they come to be less hungry, and in all ways to suffer less, she may live a long time: she may even live to be old
What then, my gentle sister
Do you think
that it will seem long to me, while I wait for her in the better land where I trust both you and I will be mercifully sheltered
It cannot be, my child; there is no Time there, and no trouble there
You comfort me so much! I am so ignorant. Am I to kiss you now? Is the moment come
Yes
I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die
I see Barsad, and Cly, Defarge, The Vengeance, the Juryman, the Judge, long ranks of the new oppressors who have risen on the destruction of the old, perishing by this retributive instrument, before it shall cease out of its present use. I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long years to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. "I see the lives for which I lay down my life, peaceful, useful, prosperous and happy, in that England which I shall see no more. I see Her with a child upon her bosom, who bears my name. I see her father, aged and bent, but otherwise restored, and faithful to all men in his healing office, and at peace. I see the good old man, so long their friend, in ten years' time enriching them with all he has, and passing tranquilly to his reward. 

"I see that I hold a sanctuary in their hearts, and in the hearts of their descendants, generations hence. I see her, an old woman, weeping for me on the anniversary of this day. I see her and her husband, their course done, lying side by side in their last earthly bed, and I know that each was not more honoured and held sacred in the other's soul, than I was in the souls of both. 

"I see that child who lay upon her bosom and who bore my name, a man winning his way up in that path of life which once was mine. I see him winning it so well, that my name is made illustrious there by the light of his. I see the blots I threw upon it, faded away. I see him, fore-most of just judges and honoured men, bringing a boy of my name, with a forehead that I know and golden hair, to this place -- then fair to look upon, with not a trace of this day's disfigurement -- and I hear him tell the child my story, with a tender and a faltering voice. 

"It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known
</text>
