<text>
proceeds the Chancellor, still on Jarndyce and Jarndyce
proceeds the Chancellor with extra distinctness
Chancellor looking through his double eye-glass at the papers on his desk
as the Honourable Bob Stables has frequently asserted upon oath
say Blaze and Sparkle, the jewellers -- meaning by our people Lady Dedlock and the rest
say Sheen and Gloss, the mercers, to their friends the manufacturers
says Mr. Sladdery, the librarian
says my Lady with the dreariness of the place in Lincolnshire still upon her
cautious man Mr. Tulkinghorn, taking no more responsibility than necessary
Mr. Tulkinghorn examines it as he speaks
says Mr. Tulkinghorn, who had risen hastily
my Lady murmurs with white lips
but her face did not relent
said my godmother in an undertone
pursued Mr. Kenge, putting up his eye-glasses
and when others asked me only to write their names
and when they all surrounded me with their parting presents and clung to me weeping and cried
could I help it if I was quite bowed down in the coach by myself and said
there were biscuits and a decanter of wine on a small table
said the Lord Chancellor, still turning over leaves
Mr. Kenge observed in a low voice
and this was when he looked at me
said Mr. Kenge, standing with his back to the fire and casting his eyes over the dusty hearth-rug as if it were Mrs. Jellyby's biography
said Mr. Kenge, shaking hands with us
said Mrs. Jellyby in an agreeable voice
said Mrs. Jellyby, snuffing the two great office candles in tin candlesticks, which made the room taste strongly of hot tallow (the fire had gone out, and there was nothing in the grate but ashes, a bundle of wood, and a poker
said Mrs. Jellyby, putting a number of papers towards us
proceeded Mrs. Jellyby with a sweet smile
Ada said -- proposing the arrangement we were now to enter on and telling her that
he said, going before us with the lantern
said the old man, stopping and turning round
he resumed, holding up the lantern
said the old man, slowly pointing an imaginary track along the shop
said our poor hostess with the greatest suavity
said the little old lady
said the little old lady -- the room was close, and would have been the better for it
she now whispered in explanation
said I, glancing at Richard and Ada, who entreated me with their eyes to speak
said Richard, coming to my relief
said Mr. Jarndyce, poking the fire
said Ada, clasping her hands upon his arm and shaking her head at me across him -- for I wanted her to be quiet
said Mr. Skimpole, in the frankest manner
the engagement terminated, and Mr. Skimpole having (as he added with delightful gaiety
said Mr. Skimpole with his agreeable candour
said he, shaking his head pleasantly
and he looked at Richard and me
he suggested, as if good-naturedly to help us out
said Mr. Skimpole gaily, innocently, and confidingly as he looked at his drawing with his head on one side
said Richard in a whisper
said Mr. Skimpole, standing with his back to the fire after giving up the sketch when it was half finished
says the young man, changing the subject
says Mrs. Rouncewell, expanding her stomacher to its utmost limits
says Mr. Guppy, staring in a kind of dismay at his friend
he says, still staring at the portrait
adds Mr. Guppy, looking round
says Mrs. Rouncewell, getting up from her chair
said I, to bring him back, for he began to rub his head
he answered much more cheerfully
said I, venturing to put my hand, which was suddenly colder than I could have wished, in his
said Mrs. Pardiggle with great volubility after the first salutations
pursued the lady, always speaking in the same demonstrative, loud, hard tone, so that her voice impressed my fancy as if it had a sort of spectacles on too -- and I may take the opportunity of remarking that her spectacles were made the less engaging by her eyes being what Ada called
said Mrs. Pardiggle, moving back to her chair and overturning, as if by invisible agency, a little round table at a considerable distance with my work-basket on it
he pinched me and said
growled the man on the floor, whose head rested on his hand as he stared at us
said he, folding his arms and shutting his eyes with an oath
Richard would say, coming up to meet me in the garden early, with his pleasant laugh and perhaps the least tinge of a blush
Ada would say at night, with her head upon my shoulder and the firelight shining in her thoughtful eyes
said Mr. Jarndyce, tapping the letter as he laid it on the table
returned his guest, who seemed to refer to his watch
he said, very gently holding up a bit of bread to the canary to peck at
exclaimed Mr. Boythorn, suddenly firing another volley
here he softened in a moment
he said in a low voice
he said with his hand upon his heart and shaking his head at me in a melancholy manner over the tray
said Mr. Guppy, leaning forward over the tray and regarding me, as I again strangely felt, though my eyes were not directed to him, with his late intent look
said I, rising and putting my hand upon the bell-rope
I think I added, without very well knowing what I said
says Mr. Tulkinghorn, carelessly feeling -- tight, unopenable oyster of the old school!-- in the wrong coat- pocket
Mr. Snagsby makes another bolt, as if the bit of bread and buffer were insurmountable
says Mr. Snagsby, walking deferentially in the road and leaving the narrow pavement to the lawyer
taking an old tea-pot from Mr. Krook
says Mr. Snagsby, coughing his apologetic cough behind his hand
says Mr. Snagsby after prefacing his reply with his cough of general propitiation
a favourite apology for plain speaking with Mr. Snagsby, which he always offers with a sort of argumentative frankness
proceeds Mr. Snagsby after consulting his cough of consideration behind his hand
Mr. Snagsby concludes by politely motioning with his hat towards the bed, as much as to add
says Mr. Tulkinghorn to Krook
says Mr. Snagsby with his finger on his nose
says Sir Leicester, selecting the letter and unfolding it
Mrs. Rouncewell adds -- only "almost" because it borders on impiety to suppose that anything could be better than it is, in such an express dispensation as the Dedlock affairs
returns the housekeeper with dignity
says my Lady then, addressing the reflection of Hortense
adds Sir Leicester after a moment's pause
resumes the lawyer with undisturbed calmness
says my Lady, gathering up her mantles and furs
Mr. Jarndyce said to me
cried Mr. Boythorn, who interested himself strongly in the subject -- though I need not say that, for he could do nothing weakly
said Richard in his off-hand manner
nodding feelingly and smoothly over those expressions
said Mr. Kenge with a tinge of melancholy in his smile
said Mr. Badger, summing up the facts
said Mr. Badger to us generally
continued Mr. Bayham Badger, leading the way into the next drawing-room
with a burst of tears
returned Ada with a bashful simplicity that would have won my heart if she had not won it long before
said he, shutting up his book
said Ada, on his shoulder
urged Richard, answering what her look suggested rather than her words
said I, looking out of the box in which I was packing his books
said poor Miss Jellyby apologetically
observed Miss Jellyby, drawing her chair nearer ours
she returned, justifying herself in a fretful but not angry manner
she retorted a little anxiously
said Caddy with a sob
said Caddy, who had said all this earnestly and tremblingly
said the son, aside, to me with quite an affecting belief in him
he said, kissing his right glove and afterwards extending it towards the pupils
with the high-shouldered bow, which it seemed impossible for him to make without lifting up his eyebrows and shutting his eyes
He took another pinch of snuff and made the bow again, as if to add
said Mr. Turveydrop with very disagreeable gallantry
said Mr. Turveydrop benignly to his son
said Mr. Turveydrop, shutting his eyes and lifting up his shoulders with modest consciousness
said Caddy, glancing at the repairs on Peepy's frock
said Caddy when we came out
she had bestowed that name on Caddy, it appeared, and always called her by it
in a subdued voice and trembling
said Mr. Woodcourt in a grave kind of voice, as if he were appealing to her while speaking to us, and laying his hand gently on her arm
said Mr. Woodcourt, looking at her with an observant smile
said Miss Flite, drawing herself back with a very shrewd look and shaking her right forefinger in a most significant manner
said Mr. Krook, looking slowly and sharply from one to another until he had looked at all of us
said the old man with a chuckle
he added, whispering and grinning
said my guardian, pretending to look out of the window for a weathercock
he said, playing little chords where I shall put full stops
whispered my guardian as we put a chair for the little creature and got her to sit down with her load, the boy keeping close to her, holding to her apron
returned the child, looking up into his face with perfect confidence
said my guardian, turning his face away for a moment
said Charley, opening her eyes and smiling
he added after a few moments
said Mrs. Blinder, unconsciously fixing Mr. Skimpole with her eye
he said, as if he resented our presence
said Gridley, putting down the child and going up to him as if he meant to strike him
said the man, pausing in his wrath
he said, beating one hand on the other passionately
said Gridley with a rough sort of salutation
he added, breaking fiercely out
he said, going to them again
he might have even gone so far as to reply
says Jo, staring moodily at the veil
says Jo, staring more than ever
said Mrs. Badger, speaking of her former husbands as if they were parts of a charade
said Ada, looking so confidingly at me across him
Richard proceeded, half thoughtfully and half jocosely
he added, suddenly becoming gay again
said Richard, passing her golden curls through and through his hand
said Richard, relapsing into doubt
said my guardian, after hearing him attentively
said my guardian, thoughtfully regarding her
he gravely interposed, anticipating what I meant to say
he said after thinking for a little while
he added, cheerily making light of it
said he, kissing me on the forehead
said Caddy, adjusting them with a careful hand
who, I may mention, found the wind much given, during this period, to stick in the east
Richard would say to me
he added, rubbing his head very significantly
said Mr. Skimpole with a quickened sense of the ludicrous
he said, standing bare-headed at the carriage-door when all was ready
in naming whom he always made a courtly gesture as if particularly to exclude her from any part in the quarrel
he said, bending his head to Ada and me with the smiling politeness which sat so gracefully upon him
said Mr. Skimpole in his light way
pursued Mr. Skimpole very unexpectedly to Mr. Boythorn
returned our host, swelling and growing very red
he returned in his gayest manner and with his most ingenuous smile
he would say to us (on his back
said Lady Dedlock to my guardian
returned my guardian with a smile
said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce over her shoulder again
and she turned full upon me
said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce
she said to the pretty girl
says Mr. Snagsby to the sparrows in Staple Inn
pursues Mr. Chadband, utterly rejecting and obliterating Mr. Snagsby's suggestion
says Chadband, glancing over the table
says the constable calmly, with a slight professional hitch of his neck involving its better settlement in his stiff stock
says Mr. Snagsby wistfully, and coughing behind his hand his cough of great perplexity and doubt
says Mr. Guppy to the law-stationer
says the constable, producing them to the company
says Jo, with dirty tears
returns Mr. Guppy, moving across the small apartment
says Chadband, "we have partaken in moderation" (which was certainly not the case so far as he was concerned
says Mr. Chadband with his persecuted chin folding itself into its fat smile again as he looks round
says Chadband, looking round him in conclusion
says Mr. Jobling, taking a little rum-and-water with an air of desperate resignation
proceeds Mr. Jobling after a defiant visit to his rum-and- water
says Mr. Guppy in his encouraging cross-examination-tone
says Mr. Guppy, who has suddenly lowered his voice and become familiar again
returns Mr. Guppy, shrugging his shoulders with becoming modesty
Mr. Guppy adds with emphasis
he whispers, with his eyes screwed up, after tasting it
repeats the old gentleman, folding his bread and butter on his knee
says Judy, completing her preparations
cries Judy, shaking her head and stamping her foot as she happens to catch the glance which has been previously sounding the basin of tea
says Mr. George, coming back to his seat from assisting her
says Mr. George, finishing the inquiry in his lower key with the words
he says, making just as much and as little change in his position as will enable him to reach the glass to his lips with a round, full action
asks Grandfather Smallweed with a twinkle in his eyes
says Mr. George, smoking not quite so placidly as before, for since the entrance of Judy he has been in some measure disturbed by a fascination, not of the admiring kind, which obliges him to look at her as she stands by her grandfather's chair
returns Mr. George, but still looking at Judy as if she being so old and so like her grandfather it is indifferent which of the two he addresses
snarls the old man, holding up his impotent ten fingers
returns the trooper, taking his pipe from his lips for a moment and carrying his eyes back from following the progress of the cushion to the pipe-bowl which is burning low
says the benevolent old man
returns the stationer with his cough of modesty
says Bucket with an engaging appearance of frankness
pursues Bucket, again tapping Mr. Snagsby on the breast in a comfortable and soothing manner
returns his new friend, quite as intimate with it as if he had made it
and further that in all, for months and months, the people "have been down by dozens" and have been carried out dead and dying
returns the woman, her eyes filling with tears
says Jenny, walking up and down as she nurses
says Jo with starting eyes
retorts that worthy, pointing to the figure
says Jo with a perplexed stare but without being at all shaken in his certainty
says Mr. Bucket, accompanying him to the door and shaking hands with him over and over again
says Mr. Bucket, shaking hands with him and blessing him in the tenderest manner
she began, looking fixedly at me with her too-eager eyes, though otherwise presenting an agreeable appearance and speaking neither with boldness nor servility
said I, quite embarrassed by the mere idea of having such an attendant
said I as soon as I could begin to be grave with him
as if that expressed the difficulty
he replied, pressing my arm
he continued, recovering his cheerfulness in a moment
continued Richard, confident again by this time
said Richard, in a tone of perfect conviction
said Caddy, who thoroughly enjoyed a little confidence
said Caddy, laughing and shaking her head
Caddy apologized, her face suffused with blushes
said Caddy, looking at me hopefully but timidly
returned Prince with great submission
meaning, of course, I will always live with you
said Mrs. Jellyby, still opening her letters, casting her bright eyes smilingly over them, and sorting them as she spoke
said Mrs. Jellyby, sweetly casting her eyes for a moment on me and considering where to put the particular letter she had just opened
and she shook her head
said Mrs. Jellyby, pausing for a moment in her occupation and then serenely pursuing it after shaking her head
observed Mrs. Jellyby with an abstracted air as she looked over the dispatch last opened
sobbed poor Caddy at last
said Mrs. Jellyby, for Caddy was kissing her
cried Mrs. Jellyby, who had relapsed into that distant contemplation
said the little girl in a soft voice
pursued Charley in the same soft voice
says Charley, clapping her hands, with the tears starting down her dimpled cheeks
cried Charley with a heaving heart
returned Richard in a fiery way, but yet respectfully
observed Mr. Jarndyce with the sweetest cheerfulness and good humour
replied Ada with a smile
putting his hand on hers as it lay on the side of the easy-chair
said Mr. Jarndyce, recovering his cheerfulness
said Ada then, raising her blue eyes tenderly to his face
said Ada, a little confused
said Ada, going up to him and giving him her trembling hand
he said to my guardian with a manly kind of diffidence
said Mr. George, sitting stiffly upright and squaring an elbow on each knee
he said as he looked at me
said he in a whisper
she returned, coldly correcting me
she gave him her arm, to the great entertainment of some idlers who were looking on, he was so discomposed and begged me so respectfully "not to desert him" that I could not make up my mind to do it, especially as Miss Flite was always tractable with me and as she too said
said the other, keeping close to him
the dirty little man was shuffling about with his shoulder against the wall, and his eyes on the intruder, in a manner that looked threatening
quoth Mrs. Snagsby for the thousand and first time
and Mr. Chadband, untwisting the point with his dirty thumb-nail, bestows an oily smile on Mr. Snagsby, signifying that he will throw him an argumentative back-fall presently if he be not already down
he resumes after dabbing his fat head for some time -- and it smokes to such an extent that he seems to light his pocket- handkerchief at it, which smokes, too, after every dab
suddenly addressing the 'prentices and Guster, to their consternation
says Chadband, descending to the level of their comprehension with a very obtrusive demonstration in his greasily meek smile of coming a long way downstairs for the purpose
said Chadband, stimulated by the sound
says George of the shooting gallery after several turns in silence
says Mr. George, plying his knife and fork
cries Phil, putting down his cup and saucer and hastily removing his plate from his knees
says Grandfather Smallweed, removing his right arm from the neck of one of his bearers, whom he has nearly throttled coming along
says Grandfather Smallweed, alluding to the bearer, who has been in danger of strangulation and who withdraws adjusting his windpipe
says the trooper, putting his pipe between his lips again
says Mr. George with his eyes musingly fixed on Judy
says the old man, making a curse out of one of his few remembrances of a prayer and squeezing up his velvet cap between his angry hands
breathlessly recovering his mildness of speech as Judy re- adjusts the cap on his skittle-ball of a head
says Grandfather Smallweed, lowering his tone
says Grandfather Smallweed with a tremulous wave of his shrivelled hand
and as suddenly asks pardon of Mr. Tulkinghorn, excusing himself for this slip of the tongue by saying to Judy
Mr. Tulkinghorn resumes as he leans on one side of his chair and crosses his legs
says Mr. Tulkinghorn in his methodical, subdued, uninterested way
replies Mr. George, rising erect and looking immense
says Mr. George, looking round upon the company
says the trooper, looking into his hat after another disconcerted pause
says Mr. George, passing his hand hopelessly across his brow
whispers Grandfather Smallweed, drawing the lawyer down to his level by the lapel of his coat and flashing some half-quenched green fire out of his angry eyes
to the imperturbable Judy, who only looks at the fire
says Grandfather Smallweed, winking at the lawyer hideously as he releases him
returns the trooper half laughingly, half seriously
says Mr. Bagnet in reply
he ruminates as he marches along
says Mr. Tulkinghorn, opening his door with the key
drawls Volumnia, whose thoughts perhaps are already hopping up it to bed, after a long evening of very desultory talk
says Miss Volumnia, reserving her own sort
says Sir Leicester with stately gloom
he says while doing so
Sir Leicester, with his habitual regard to truth, dwells upon it
proceeds Mr. Rouncewell with a respectful glance and a bow that way
observes Sir Leicester with unspeakable grandeur, for he thinks the ironmaster a little too glib
he brings her in thus specially, first as a point of gallantry, and next as a point of prudence, having great reliance on her sense
says my Lady, warning Sir Leicester off with the slightest gesture of her pretty hand, as if he were a fly
with the least turn of his eyes towards Sir Leicester
proceeds the visitor in a modest, clear way
says Sir Leicester with his right hand in the breast of his blue coat, the attitude of state in which he is painted in the gallery
Here he resists a disposition to choke
the ironmaster is reddening a little
says Sir Leicester with all the nature of a gentleman shining in him
he observes by way of preface, nodding at the fire as if he were nodding down at the man from a mount
says Sir Leicester to Mercury
says Mr. Guppy, a little emboldened
Mr. Guppy refers to a little slip of paper on which he has made small notes of his line of argument and which seems to involve him in the densest obscurity whenever he looks at it
says Mr. Guppy, standing midway between my Lady and his chair
replies Mr. Guppy, again referring to his paper
she repeats in the same tone
to report that she had heard from him and that he was well
she would say to me with stately triumph
she would say, and always with some emotion, for with her lofty pedigree she had a very affectionate heart
said the old lady, who was now all nods and smiles
here she began to sob, poor girl, not at all like the happiest girl in the world
said Caddy with a sudden idea
she returned, drying her eyes
said she, rising from her desk with her usual sweetness of temper
said I, looking over a copy of the letter O in which it was represented as square, triangular, pear-shaped, and collapsed in all kinds of ways
said Charley with a short laugh of the greatest delight and pride
said its mother to Charley
said Mr. Skimpole, shrugging his shoulders with his engaging smile
said my guardian, to whom I had hastily explained the unavailing efforts of the two women
walking up and down and rumpling his hair
returned my guardian, resuming his uneasy walk
observed my guardian, turning to me
said I after letting her go on for a little while
how affectionately and devotedly she poured this out as she clung to my neck, I never can remember without tears
says Mr. Snagsby, pausing to sniff and taste the air a little
Mr. Snagsby sniffs and tastes again and then spits and wipes his mouth
adds Mr. Snagsby with his apologetic cough
he observes, slowly rubbing his hands
says Mr. Snagsby, breaking off with a mistrust that he may have unpolitely asserted a kind of proprietorship in Mr. Weevle
Mr. Snagsby speaks as if it made him desolate to go, though he has been casting about for any means of escape ever since he stopped to speak
says Mr. Weevle to himself
says Tony, stirring the fire
says Mr. Guppy after considering a little with his legs crossed
says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs
says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs again
resumes Mr. Guppy, still glancing with remarkable aversion at the coat-sleeve, as they pursue their conversation before the fire, leaning on opposite sides of the table, with their heads very near together
urges Mr. Guppy, raising his voice a little; but on his friend's once more warning him
he repeats his question without any sound at all, forming with his lips only the words
proceeds Mr. Guppy, evading this proposal
though he looks something sharply after it, over the counter
says Mr. Snagsby, somewhat promptly backed away
says Mr. Snagsby when his tongue is loosened
returns Mrs. Snagsby, shaking her head
urges Mr. Snagsby in a piteous manner
says Mrs. Snagsby after contemplating his increased confusion with a severe and sinister smile
says Mr. Guppy after they have broodingly made out the four sides of the square
Mr. Guppy tells them off on his fingers
says Mr. Guppy, taking his arm again and walking him slowly on
returns Tony with a most convincing steadfastness
Grandfather Smallweed then proceeds, addressing Mr. Guppy
whines Grandfather Smallweed, putting out both his hands
repeats Grandfather Smallweed, hooking the air towards him with all his ten fingers at once
says the disconsolate Mr. Guppy
the old gentleman strikes in
as the great Harmonic feature of the week and announces in the bill that
says Mr. Guppy like a meanly penitent thief
replies Phil after pensively tracing out a cross-wrinkle in his forehead with the brush-handle
says Phil with exceeding gravity
says Phil, looking cunningly at him
says Phil with a highly artistic turn of his brush
says the trooper, eyeing him in his large way with no small indignation
she often speaks of her husband by this appellation, on account, as it is supposed, of Lignum Vitae having been his old regimental nickname when they first became acquainted, in compliment to the extreme hardness and toughness of his physiognomy
says the trooper in a subdued voice, addressing him but still looking at his wife
murmurs Mr. Bagnet after a short silence
Mrs. Bagnet answers, half laughing and half crying
says the trooper, giving himself a disparaging blow in the chest
says Mr. Bagnet, looking straight before him
returns George, not able to be very conciliatory at first
urges the trooper, constraining himself to speak as smoothly and confidentially as he can, holding the open letter in one hand and resting the broad knuckles of the other on his thigh
says the trooper, gaining confidence as he proceeds in his soldierly mode of doing business
old Smallweed, who all this time has had the pipe in his hand, is the speaker now
returns the trooper in his off-hand way
says Mr. George when he has recovered himself
the lawyer proceeds in his dry passionless manner, far more hopeless in the dealing with than any amount of vehemence
says Mrs. Bagnet, working busily
says George, very gently smoothing the mother's hair with his hand
here he fell into a lower tone, as if he were thinking aloud
I began afresh after a short while
but rushing at once into the words
said my guardian, looking at his watch
said she, putting her hand into her reticule
said Charley, to whom I looked in some astonishment
Miss Flite suggested, advancing her lips to my ear with her most mysterious look
she went on in her mysterious way
said she as she carefully folded up her scarf and gloves
I was beginning when my mother hurriedly inquired
returned Charley, putting her head forward and folding her hands tight upon the band of her little apron, which she always did in the enjoyment of anything mysterious or confidential
said I, shaking my head
said Mr. Skimpole, looking beamingly at us over a glass of wine-and-water
said Richard a little more gaily
said Richard, who had been hesitating through these words
said Richard, quite amused with me
he took a handful of loose silver and halfpence from his pocket
he looked inquiringly at us with his frankest smile as he made the discovery
said Richard, flushed, and looking triumphantly at Ada and me
said Caddy with a little hesitation
I went on, seeing him about to speak
continued Mr. Guppy rapidly, as if he were repeating a familiar form of words
said I, rising at this point
said Mr. Guppy, going with one leg and staying with the other
said I, turning to her
said Mr. Guppy to me forlornly and despondently
which proved fatal to the inquiry for ten years
returns Vholes, following him close with his eyes wherever he goes
returns Vholes with his inward manner of speech and his bloodless quietude
explains the client, somewhat abashed
says Richard, more familiarly and good-humouredly
says Mr. Vholes, gently shaking his head and rapping the hollow desk, with a sound as if ashes were falling on ashes, and dust on dust
returns Vholes, immovable in attitude and never winking his hungry eyes
says Mr. Vholes with the severity of a determined man
observes Vholes, turning over the leaves of his diary
Vholes gives the desk one hollow blow again
says Mr. Weevle, adjusting his whiskers
says Mr. Guppy, a little disconcerted
Mr. Guppy becomes mysteriously and tenderly eloquent
says Mr. Guppy as they walk towards the court
he says hurriedly to his astonished companion
rejoins the housekeeper with proud complacency
replies Sir Leicester, who has a list in his hand
proceeds Sir Leicester, glancing at the circumjacent cousins on sofas and ottomans
says Sir Leicester, eyeing the cousins with increasing dignity and swelling indignation
repeats Sir Leicester, unmindful of these mollifying sentiments
observes Volumnia, having taken a little time to recover her spirits after her late castigation
says Sir Leicester, opening his eyes
Mr. Tulkinghorn goes on to say in the fast-increasing darkness when there is silence again
says Mr. Tulkinghorn as a wind-up
says Sir Leicester after a terrific pause during which he has been heard to snort and felt to stare
says Sir Leicester in a breathless condition
observes my Lady from her window in a low but decided tone
Sir Leicester adds, after a moment's consideration
she says, for the moment obliged to set her lips with all the energy she has, that she may speak distinctly
she returns without looking up from the ground on which her eyes are now fixed
she asks in a low voice and without removing her gloomy look from those distant stars
Mr. Tulkinghorn very dry here
says Mr. Tulkinghorn, pursuing his case in his jog- trot style
Mr. Tulkinghorn returns methodically as he softly rubs his hands
says Mr. Snagsby, holding his hat at the side of his head in his deference towards his best customer
says Mr. Snagsby in a mysterious low voice
returns the stationer, shading his communication with his hat
Mr. Snagsby repeats the word with pathetic emphasis
says Mr. Snagsby, shaking his head
says Mr. Snagsby, ending with a cough that plainly adds
says Mr. Tulkinghorn, tapping his chin with the key and looking imperturbably at her
mademoiselle replies without any action and in a clear, obliging voice
says the lawyer, deliberately putting away his handkerchief and adjusting his frill
whispers mademoiselle, stretching out her hand
pursues the lawyer without minding her
proceeds the lawyer, still without minding her
Mr. Tulkinghorn observes, following her out upon the staircase
said my guardian once to me
said Ada, who had just joined us and now looked over my shoulder
he slowly replied, roughening his head more and more
said Mr. Skimpole, turning his bright face about
said Mr. Skimpole, gaily taking a little claret in a tumbler
he cheerfully replied, going back to his sofa
returned Mr. Skimpole, his genial face irradiated by the comicality of this idea
said my guardian, by no means displeased with this artless reply
said my guardian, laying his hand emphatically on the sleeve of Mr. Skimpole's dressing-gown
said Mr. Skimpole, turning his sprightly eyes from one to the other of us
he said when he came back
said Mr. Skimpole, raising his laughing eyes in playful astonishment
said Sir Leicester in reply as he bowed and seated himself
said Mr. Skimpole with his usual happy and easy air
pursued Sir Leicester, addressing himself again to my guardian
said he, breaking into a smile
I could scarcely ask him
said he with his cheery smile
said he with a gentle seriousness
I asked myself, looking at the glass
I said, rather hesitating and trembling
said my guardian, eyeing his black figure as if he were a bird of ill omen
said Mr. Vholes, putting out his long black sleeve to check the ringing of the bell
he said, tearing the letter he had written into fragments and moodily casting them away, by driblets
he went on, tapping his foot upon the floor
said he, sitting down beside me and resuming our conversation
he said, more moved than he had been from the first
he said, unconscious with what application
repeats Allan, looking at him with attention
proceeds Allan, making a strong effort to overcome his repugnance, going very near to him, and leaning over him with an expression of confidence
replies Jo, shaking his head fearfully
says Allan, keeping his eye upon him
says Jo, soon putting down his food
returns the trooper after blowing out a cloud of smoke and squaring his chest
says Allan, following the direction of the trooper's eyes along the entry
says Mr. George, shaking his head sorrowfully
observes Allan after repeating his former assurance
returns the trooper in a decisive manner
observes Mr. George, amazingly broad and upright
he refers apologetically to the card Allan has given him
says Mr. George in a martial sort of confidence, as if he were giving his opinion in a council of war at a drum-head
returns Allan, taking out his purse
returns the trooper, stopping short and folding his arms on his square chest so angrily that his face fires and flushes all over
the trooper resumes his march
says Mr. Snagsby in a melancholy whisper
says Jo, who has started and is looking round
Lady Dedlock asks her, signing to her to bring her chair nearer
says Sir Leicester to Mercury, not immediately remembering the business term
Sir Leicester skilfully transfers him with a solemn wave of his hand
says Sir Leicester, magnificently laying out the matter with his right hand like a service of plate
Sir Leicester, with an apologetic but dignified inclination of his head towards the ironmaster, winds up his sentence
observes my Lady in her coldest manner before he can do anything but breathe amazedly
she returns with the same studied carelessness
says my Lady in her weary manner
observes Mr. Tulkinghorn, loitering a little forward with his hands behind him
returns Mr. Rouncewell with some quickness in his manner, as if he were glad to have the lawyer to retort upon
says Mr. Rouncewell after a pause of a few moments
says the lawyer, taking a chair at a little distance from her and slowly rubbing his rusty legs up and down, up and down, up and down
thinks Mr. Tulkinghorn, standing on the hearth, again a dark object closing up her view
but there failing in the exact precision of his memory and substituting for number three the question
says Mrs. Bagnet, casting a glance on the table-cloth, and winking
says the trooper, passing his hand over his brow
says the trooper, making himself speak more gaily
cries Mrs. Bagnet, turning it on all sides and holding it out at arm's length
says Mrs. Bagnet, her eyes sparkling with pleasure and her hand stretched out to him
says the trooper, not yet lighting his pipe, and passing his heavy hand over his hair
says Mr. Bucket, opening his arms
says Mr. Bucket, struck by the coincidence
says Mr. Bucket in a considerate and private voice
says Mr. Bucket, taking his arm at the shop-door
says Mr. Bucket, urging a sensible view of the case upon him with his fat forefinger
says Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger in an impressive state of action
returns Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger going
continues Mr. Bucket, putting his hat upon the table with an air of business rather in the upholstery way than otherwise
he takes a cloak from a corner and begins adjusting it about the trooper's neck
observed my guardian, half pleasantly, half seriously
he would turn to his daughter-in-law with infinite generosity and protection
he would sometimes add in a burst of deportment
observed my guardian, shutting up his book one night when we were all three together
said Mr. Vholes, still quietly insisting on the seat by not giving the address
rejoined Mr. Vholes, self-contained as usual, voice and all
said Mr. Vholes, bringing his hand flat down upon his desk in a positive manner
cried Richard, starting up with extended hands
returned Mr. Woodcourt, shaking his head
said Richard, with something pathetic in his manner of lingering on the point, though it was off-hand and unstudied
continued Richard, casting his dejected look over the bundles of papers
answered Richard with his old gay laugh
said Richard, Ada still remaining silent and quiet
said Richard in his cordial voice, and taking my hand with the brotherly regard which nothing ever changed
said Richard, relinquishing my hand gently and walking across the room
replied George, after a little cogitation
observed Mr. George with one of his sunburnt smiles
exclaimed my guardian, surprised into his old oddity and vehemence
my guardian explained, a little at a loss
looking round upon us with his powerful arms akimbo and his dark eyebrows raised
exclaimed Mrs. Bagnet, who had been unpacking her basket, in which there was a piece of cold pickled pork, a little tea and sugar, and a brown loaf
said Mrs. Bagnet as she blew a little dust off the pickled pork, looking at me again
was her first remark when she came up
returned Mrs. Bagnet, hurriedly drying her eyes on the hem of her grey cloak
the old girl proceeded, untying the strings of her bonnet for more air
she proceeded, clapping her hands in her hurry and agitation a dozen times in every sentence
cried my guardian with his hand in his pocket
says Mr. Bucket, spreading it out on the table
Sir Leicester adds with a generous warmth
he lays a stress upon the word, for death levels all distinctions
returns Mr. Bucket, bringing the finger into persuasive action -- and such is his natural gallantry that he had almost said
Mr. Bucket again looks grave
says Mr. Bucket with a complimentary twinkle of his eye and crook of his finger
says Mr. Bucket, quite reddening at another narrow escape from
says Sir Leicester somewhat sternly, for Volumnia was going to cut in before he had rounded his sentence
returns Mr. Bucket very seriously
Mr. Bucket goes on, glancing gravely at Sir Leicester
this to the debilitated cousin
he says in a low voice, cautiously returning
says Mr. Bucket, warming his hands and looking pleasantly at the blaze
Sir Leicester was going to say indisposition and would have said it to anybody else, but Mr. Bucket palpably knows all about it
Sir Leicester observes; raising his eyes to his face
returns Mr. Bucket with his head persuasively on one side and his forefinger pendant at one ear like an earring
Mr. Bucket begins, standing over him with one hand spread out on the library-table and the forefinger of the other in impressive use
returns Sir Leicester after a silence, without moving hand, foot, or feature
Sir Leicester seems to shrink in the shadow of his figure
retorts Sir Leicester with a fiery eye and a quivering lip
producing the tip of his convenient little staff from his breast-pocket
says Mr. Bucket, offering his hand
says Mr. Bucket after awaiting his recovery
says Mr. Bucket, instantaneously altering his manner, coming close to him, and communicating an extraordinary fascination to the forefinger
says Mr. Bucket -- Sir Leicester mechanically bows his head
returns Mr. Bucket, very attentive
says Mr. Chadband with a cunning eye
again Sir Leicester mechanically bows in confirmation of the statement
Mr. Bucket asserts with cheerfulness
proceeds Mr. Bucket, putting up his watch with a steady hand and with rising spirits
says Mr. Bucket in a cool determined way
repeats Mr. Bucket, making no demonstration except with the finger
says Mr. Bucket, and from this time forth the finger never rests
returns Mr. Bucket with admonitory finger
proceeds Mr. Bucket, who delights in a full title and does violence to himself when he dispenses with any fragment of it
she asks him, darkening her large eyes until their drooping lids almost conceal them -- and yet they stare
says Mr. Bucket with the greatest composure
says the trooper when they are more composed
returns the trooper, stopping her with a kiss
says the trooper, shaking his head very doubtfully
he glances at his writing on the table
the old housekeeper pleads with genuine simplicity
which he don't complain of, for he is bound to confess that there never has been any particular reason on the face of things why he should be
Mr. Guppy sits on the edge of a chair and puts his hat on the carpet at his feet
Mr. Guppy returns with a sense of injury upon him
Mr. Bucket has read his face with the greatest attention all along
said Mr. Bucket, coolly lifting off his hat
Mr. Bucket struck in, addressing the whole group with a composed propitiatory face
said Mr. Bucket apologetically for Michael Jackson
said her husband, muttering an imprecation with slow emphasis
said Mr. Bucket, pondering on it
said he, beating his finger on the apron
said Mr. Bucket, jumping to his seat and looking in again
said Blaze and Sparkle to the hand in question on engaging him
the old lady says to her son, who waits below to keep her company when she has a little leisure
says the trooper, glancing round him and speaking in a lower voice
Sir Leicester observes with difficulty
says Sir Leicester, whose eyes are much attracted towards him
making an endeavour to pass one hand down one side
and when the maid protests, more sharply than before
she meekly rises and says
he had caught the name from me
said Mr. Bucket, who had eyed him closely as we came along
said Mr. Snagsby, entering behind us
said Mr. Snagsby, sitting down in the remotest corner by the door, as if he were taking a liberty
pursued Mr. Bucket without correcting himself
he repeated, and I saw by his face that all the time he talked he was listening for the discovery of the letter, to my own great agitation, for I knew then how important it must be
said Mr. Bucket, rapidly glancing at it
said I, laying my face against her forehead, for indeed I was crying too, and trembling
said the girl, looking at me with wide open eyes
said he, receiving me with a kiss
he repeated -- and his tone did NOT sound sorrowful, I found
pursued Miss Flite, advancing her lips to my ear with an air of equal patronage and mystery
repeated Miss Flite in her most genteel accents
said Miss Flite, echoing the sigh
said Mr. Vholes, very slowly rubbing his gloved hands, as if, to his cold sense of touch, they were much the same in black kid or out of it
he said, bringing his chair nearer mine and breaking into his fascinating smile
said he with the frankest gaiety
said Mr. Skimpole with his airy laugh
said I, raising my eyes to his
he said, pursuing his argument in his tone of light- hearted conviction
said Mr. Skimpole, shaking his head
he returned with a candid hilarity that was all his own
and the deep earnestness with which he said it at once strengthened me and made me weep
said I, giving him my hand
said my guardian, musing as he smiled upon me
said he, rather out of breath
he then began, putting down his hat and opening his subject with a flourish of his well-remembered finger
Mr. Bucket went on, stooping over him with an air of cheerful raillery which Mr. Smallweed by no means reciprocated
said Mr. Bucket with the same lively air of recalling a joke for the enjoyment of Mr. Smallweed, who still had the same crest-fallen appearance of not enjoying it at all
said Mr. Bucket, dismissing his agreeable manner all at once and becoming strictly business-like
he said, looking off it
asked my guardian, rising after a pause, during which Mr. Kenge had rattled his money and Mr. Vholes had picked his pimples
said Mr. Kenge, showing us through the outer office to the door
mutters the trooper, stroking his chin
George replies, leaning forward with his left arm on his knee and his hat in his hand, and very chary of meeting his brother's eye
returns the ironmaster in an altered voice
he declares at the end of a full account of what has preceded his arrival there
says the trooper, folding his arms and looking with indomitable firmness at his brother
says the trooper, folding his arms more resolutely yet
says the trooper with a heave of his chest as he unfolds his arms and puts a hand on each leg
he proceeds, throwing off his disappointment
returns the elder, concentrating his strong steady brow upon him and smiling confidently
returns the other with a very slight shade upon his open face
cries the trooper, checking him, with his hand upon his knee again
says the elder brother, returning the grip of his hand
observed my guardian, standing still with a delighted face to watch my looks
said my guardian, whom I had never seen so proud and joyful as in showing me these things and watching my appreciation of them
smiling as he referred to it
cried my guardian with enthusiasm
Mr. Guppy, after a moment's consideration, began, to the great diversion of his mother, which she displayed by nudging Mr. Jobling with her elbow and winking at me in a most remarkable manner
here Mr. Guppy's mother rolled her head as if she never could sufficiently enjoy the observation, and put her handkerchief to her mouth, and again winked at me
Mr. Guppy looked at him with a sentimental air
replied Mr. Guppy with candour
said my guardian, laughing as he rang the bell
said she to my guardian
interposed her son, always getting before her and pushing her back with one shoulder as she sidled at my guardian
observed Mr. Kenge, using his silver trowel persuasively and smoothingly
becoming dignified almost to severity
said Mr. Vholes, coming after us
said he, quite unmoved for himself
said my guardian, comforting him
said Allan, drawing my arm through his
</text>
