<text>
said Miss Betsey, coming back to her chair, as if she had only been taking a casual look at the prospect
exclaimed Miss Betsey, unconsciously quoting the second sentiment of the pincushion in the drawer upstairs, but applying it to my mother instead of me
said my mother, answering with some difficulty
resumed Mr. Chillip, as soon as he had courage
said Peggotty, taking her eyes from me, after a little indecision and going on with her work
said Peggotty, who was not quite right in the name yet
returned my mother, in a cheerful voice
said my mother, shedding more tears than before
cried my mother, coming to the elbow-chair in which I was, and caressing me
said Peggotty, intent upon my face
replied Em'ly, shaking her head
said Em'ly, as she looked about for shells and pebbles
said Peggotty - I again mean our Peggotty
said Mr. Peggotty, taking his seat
cried my mother, turning from one of us to the other, in her pettish wilful manner
turning a darkening face on Peggotty, when he had watched my mother out, and dismissed her with a nod and a smile
he said, making his lips thin, by pressing them together
he said, with a grave smile that belonged to him
he said, when I had done his bidding, and he walked me into the parlour, with his hand still on my arm
faltered my mother, evidently frightened
my poor mother went on, at a grievous disadvantage, and with many tears
he continued, looking at my mother
he went on, after waiting until my mother was silent
said Mr. Murdstone in reply
said Mr. Murdstone to his sister
he added, after these magnanimous words
he said - and I saw that cast again as he said it
said the carrier, jerking the rein to point him out
said Mr. Barkis, after a long interval of reflection
said the waiter, looking at the light through the tumbler
said the waiter, still looking at the light through the tumbler, with one of his eyes shut up
he said, looking very low-spirited
he said, shaking his head
I said, when we had accomplished about the same distance as before
whispered Mr. Creakle, taking me by the ear
said Mr. Creakle, striking his hand upon the table, and looking at Mrs. Creakle
pursued Mr. Mell, with his lip trembling very much
said Mr. Mell, with his lips trembling more and more
said Steerforth, coming forward up the room
said Mr. Creakle, shaking him by the arm; and his whisper was so audible now, that Tungay felt it unnecessary to repeat his words
he returned in a low voice
said Mr. Creakle, darting his head at him suddenly, and drawing it back again
returned Mr. Mell, in the midst of a dead silence
said Mr. Creakle, putting his head on one side, and rolling his eyes round the school
said Mr. Creakle, with his veins swelling again bigger than ever
said Mr. Peggotty, slowly, who I thought appeared to stick to the subject on account of having no other subject ready
said Mr. Peggotty, shaking his head
said Mr. Peggotty, by which he meant snail, and this was in allusion to his being slow to go, for he had attempted to go after every sentence, and had somehow or other come back again
said Mr. Barkis, carrying his eyes back to his horse's ears
said Mr. Barkis, with another slow look at me
said Peggotty, who was sometimes seized with a fit of wondering on some most unexpected topic
observed my mother, rousing herself from a reverie
returned my mother, half laughing
said my mother, with the tears which were engendered in her affectionate nature, stealing down her face
said my mother, changing her tone
faltered my mother, a little abashed by the harsh tone of this inquiry
said Miss Murdstone, rising angrily
said Mr. Murdstone, one day after dinner when I was going to leave the room as usual
said Mr. Murdstone, in a low grave voice
said Mr. Murdstone, turning his head and his eyes stiffly towards me
addressing my mother in a lower voice
said Mrs. Creakle, after a pause
he said, opening the door
said Mr. Omer, after watching me for some minutes, during which I had not made much impression on the breakfast, for the black things destroyed my appetite
I said in a thoughtful whisper, one evening, when I was warming my hands at the kitchen fire
I said, brightening a little
said Miss Murdstone, looking into a pickle-jar
said Miss Murdstone, still keeping her eye on the pickles
said Peggotty, giving me a squeeze
said Mr. Peggotty, wiping the heat consequent on the porterage of Peggotty's box from his forehead
looking at the Dutch clock
said Mr. Peggotty, taking up her curls, and running them over his hand like water
said Mr. Peggotty, giving Ham a backhanded knock in the chest
said I, shaking my head
said Mr. Peggotty, looking at me through the smoke of his pipe
said I, quite carried away by my favourite theme
Mr. Quinion observed in a low voice, and half turning round
said Mr. Quinion, in allusion to myself
said the stranger, with a certain condescending roll in his voice, and a certain indescribable air of doing something genteel, which impressed me very much
said the stranger, with a smile and in a burst of confidence
said Mr. Micawber, with the same genteel air, and in another burst of confidence
said Mr. Micawber, in another burst of confidence
said Mrs. Micawber, when she came up, twin and all, to show me the apartment, and sat down to take breath
says I, producing the money
said Mr. Micawber, who was present
Your petitioners therefore humbly approach your honourable house
for we had been having some already
said Mrs. Micawber, who always said those two words with an air, though I never could discover who came under the denomination
cried Mrs. Micawber, more affected than before
she went on, looking at the wall
cried Mr. Micawber, running into the room
said Mr. Micawber, shaking his head
for so he had been accustomed to call me, of late
returned Mr. Micawber, quite forgetting himself, and smiling again
said I, very much frightened
said I, glad to have closed the bargain
he then cried, peeping hideously out of the shop, after a long pause
I said, attempting to smile
pointing with his whip towards the heights
returned my aunt, softened by the reply
said Mr. Dick, considering, and looking vacantly at me
The contemplation of me seemed to inspire him with a sudden idea, and he added, briskly
said my aunt, turning round with a quiet triumph, which I did not then understand
said my aunt, when I had finished
Mr. Dick simpered, after thinking a little
said my aunt, shaking her head
said my aunt, with her grave look, and her forefinger up as before
said my aunt, as she threaded her needle
said my aunt, eyeing me as narrowly as she had eyed the needle in threading it
he added, in a lower tone
here he beckoned to me, and put his lips close to my ear
said Mr. Dick, in answer
said Mr. Dick, looking earnestly at me, and taking up his pen to note it down
said Mr. Dick, with a despondent look upon his papers, and with his hand among his hair again
he said cheerfully, and rousing himself
said my aunt, with great decision and force of manner
said my aunt, with emphasis, as an admonition to Mr. Dick, who was biting his forefinger and looking rather foolish
interposed his sister, directing general attention to me in my indefinable costume
resumed Mr. Murdstone, whose face darkened more and more, the more he and my aunt observed each other, which they did very narrowly
returned Miss Murdstone, striking in
said Mr. Murdstone, with an inclination of his head
rejoined Mr. Murdstone, shrugging his shoulders, as he rose
said my aunt, turning a deaf ear to the sister, and continuing to address the brother, and to shake her head at him with infinite expression
said Miss Murdstone, in a perfect agony at not being able to turn the current of my aunt's address towards herself
she said, shaking her finger at him
said my aunt one evening, when the backgammon-board was placed as usual for herself and Mr. Dick
said Mr. Wickfield; for I soon found that it was he, and that he was a lawyer, and steward of the estates of a rich gentleman of the county
said my aunt, with a wave of her hand, importing that his knowledge and his ignorance were all one to her
said my aunt in conclusion
he said, stopping in a passage with his hand on my shoulder
he added, looking at me, and moving his head to the time of his quotation
he said this with some hesitation
observed a voice behind Uriah, as Uriah's head was pushed away, and the speaker's substituted
I said, to make myself agreeable
returned Uriah, shaking his head
he said, referring to a pale, inexpressive-faced watch in his pocket
returned Uriah, putting his book away upon the shelf
said Mrs. Strong's mama, when we were seated
pursued her mother, shaking her head and her fan at her, playfully
said he, looking at his watch, and filling his glass
said Mr. Dick, with an air of mystery, after imparting this confidence to me, one Wednesday
getting me close to him, that he might whisper very softly
he said, with an air of self-denial
said Mrs. Heep, making the tea
said Mr. Micawber, putting out his hand
said Mr. Micawber, in one of his bursts of confidence
said Mr. Micawber genteelly, and without addressing himself particularly to anyone
said Mr. Micawber, in another of his bursts of confidence
returned Mr. Micawber, with a bow
said Mr. Micawber, smiling, in another burst of confidence
said Mrs. Micawber, lowering her voice
said Mrs. Micawber with emotion
said Mrs. Micawber with much feeling
said my aunt, looking at me approvingly
said Mr. Dick, in a hurry
said Agnes, breaking into a pleasant laugh, as she sat at work
said the Doctor, warming his hands
said the Doctor, with a smile
said Mrs. Markleham, with emphasis, and looking round upon us generally
said the Old Soldier resignedly
returned Mrs. Markleham, shaking her head and her fan
said the Old Soldier, fanning herself, in a sort of calm prophetic agony
said Mrs. Markleham, taking a letter from the chimney-piece above the Doctor's head
said Mrs. Markleham, putting her glass to her eye
said Mrs. Markleham, telegraphing the Doctor as before, and refolding the letter
I said, condescendingly (I knew him
I said, pretending to be undecided
said the waiter, in a tone of confidence
he said, clapping me on the shoulder again
returned the waiter, still apologetically
said Steerforth, when we were alone
said Mr. Omer, looking at me and shaking his head
exclaimed Mr. Omer, after being thrown by his surprise into a fit of coughing
said Mr. Omer, touching my waistcoat with his forefinger
he said, wiping his head, and breathing with difficulty
he added, after a few moments' further rubbing of his chin
said Peggotty, wiping her eyes with her apron
said Mr. Barkis, nodding his nightcap, which was his only means of emphasis
here his delight broke out again
said Mr. Peggotty, sitting down among us by the fire
in a low voice to Steerforth
sinking his voice lower yet
said Mr. Peggotty, with his face one high noon of enjoyment
cried Mr. Peggotty, rolling his head in an ecstasy at the idea
said Steerforth, glancing round the room
he said, getting up and leaning moodily against the chimney-piece, with his face towards the fire
he said, looking before us
he said, after a pause
she went on, clapping a hand on each of her little knees, and glancing shrewdly at me
cried the little creature, making a whisk at him with the handkerchief with which she was wiping her face
she said, smiting her small knees, and rising
she said, when she was safely elevated
continued Miss Mowcher, rubbing all the time as busily as ever
returned the wary Mowcher, touching her nose
returned the little woman, looking at me with the aspect of a connoisseur
he rejoined, in a hesitating manner, 'Em'ly, she's talking to some
said Ham, with great earnestness
said Ham, tenderly adjusting it on the rough palm of his hand
she exclaimed, still weeping pitifully
said Steerforth, when I mentioned it
said my aunt, laying her hand with melancholy firmness on the table
said my aunt, striking the table
said I, drawing my chair nearer
said my aunt, as I turned my head indignantly
said I, still desiring to spare my aunt, 'that it is not the custom here, if an articled clerk were particularly useful, and made himself a perfect master of his profession' - I could not help blushing, this looked so like praising myself
said I, with my hand on the bell-rope
said I, turning away my head
said Agnes, with a steady glance
said Agnes, looking up again
said Agnes, resuming her usual tone, after a little while
with a quiet smile, for I was going to interrupt her, and she knew why
said Agnes, calmly changing the conversation as soon as I had concluded
she replied, after a moment's hesitation
cried Agnes, putting her hands before her face, as her tears started on it
said I, glancing towards him
said this gentleman, looking round the board with an imbecile smile
said I, at last, 'who is worth five hundred of you - or me'; for my life, I think, I could not have helped dividing that part of the sentence with an awkward jerk
he proceeded, in a soft voice, most remarkably contrasting with the action of his thumb, which did not diminish its hard pressure in the least degree
he wiped his hands harder, and looked at them and at the fire by turns
observed a well-remembered voice, when I had bowed and murmured something
said Miss Murdstone, with severe composure
said Mr. Spenlow to me
said Mrs. Crupp, with a great deal of feeling
said Mrs. Crupp, in a tone approaching to severity
said the milkman, going on as if he had received no answer, and speaking, as I judged from his tone, rather for the edification of somebody within the house, than of the youthful servant - an impression which was strengthened by his manner of glaring down the passage
said the milkman, looking hard at her for the first time, and taking her by the chin
said I, shaking hands with him again, after I had sat down
said Traddles, preserving the same air of cheerful confidence in all he said
tracing his finger along the inkstand
drawing the cloth off with great pride and care
said Traddles, falling a little back from it to survey it with the greater admiration
said Traddles, coming back to his chair
said Mr. Micawber, with one eye on Traddles
said Mr. Micawber, leading her towards me
returned Mr. Micawber with sudden seriousness
said Mr. Micawber, much affected
said Mr. Micawber, tasting it
said Mrs. Micawber, sipping her punch
said Mrs. Micawber, who prided herself on taking a clear view of things, and keeping Mr. Micawber straight by her woman's wisdom, when he might otherwise go a little crooked
said Mrs. Micawber, still more argumentatively
said Mr. Micawber, making his shirt-collar meet in front of his chin, and glancing at me sideways
which so excited and gratified Mr. Micawber, that he ran with a glass of punch into my bedroom, in order that Mrs. Micawber might drink D., who drank it with enthusiasm, crying from within, in a shrill voice
said I, giving him welcome with all the cordiality I felt
he said, when I had done
said Mrs. Steerforth, without any displeasure
said Mrs. Steerforth quickly - for there was always some effect of sarcasm in what Rosa Dartle said, though it was said, as this was, in the most unconscious manner in the world
interposed Mrs. Steerforth, laughing good-naturedly
said Steerforth, softly, at the drawing-room door
he said, with a smile
said Mr. Omer, taking up his glass
said Mr. Omer, after rubbing his chin again, and smoking a little
said Mr. Omer, shaking his head gently
said Mr. Omer, in a comfortable, easy-going tone
said Mr. Omer, touching me with his pipe
he returned, rubbing his double chin again
said Mr. Peggotty, smoothing her rich hair with his great hard hand
said Mr. Peggotty, looking round at both of us, with infinite pride
said Mr. Peggotty, with no less pride than before
laughed Mr. Peggotty, sitting down beside us, and rubbing his hands in his sense of relief from recent trouble, and in the genuine heartiness of his nature
cried Mrs. Gummidge, with a pitiable whimper
said Mr. Peggotty, bending over me with great glee
said Mr. Peggotty, with sudden emphasis
said Mr. Peggotty, with a delighted face, after some further rubbing of his legs
said Mr. Peggotty, gleefully holding out his hand towards it
said Mr. Peggotty, with another roar
said Mr. Peggotty, stopping in his roar, and smiting his hands together
exclaimed Ham, in a broken voice
he said, wildly, holding out his clenched right hand
laying her head upon his shoulder
said Mr. Peggotty to me, when we had all three walked a little while in silence
he added; answering, as I think, my look
said I, after glancing up and down the empty street, without distinctly knowing what I expected to see besides
pursued the little woman, shaking her head at me, with reproachful earnestness
said the little woman, holding up her forefinger between me and her sparkling eyes
cried Miss Mowcher, wringing her hands impatiently, as she went to and fro again upon the fender
exclaimed Miss Mowcher, getting off the fender, and trotting up and down the kitchen with her two short arms distressfully lifted up
said she, accepting the offer of my hand to help her over the fender, and looking wistfully up into my face
she exclaimed, turning back on her way to the door, and looking shrewdly at me, with her forefinger up again
Ham whispered, drawing me aside, while Mr. Peggotty was stowing his bag among the luggage
and he spoke very steadily and mildly
he said, shaking his head
interrupted Mr. Peggotty, with a steady but a kindling eye
she added, looking at her visitor with the proud intolerant air with which she had begun
she said, with her hand on her bosom, as if to prevent the storm that was raging there, from being loud
said Dora, slightly raising her eyebrows, and shaking her head
cried Traddles, punctually appearing at my door, in spite of all these obstacles
said Traddles, colouring in his great delicacy
said Traddles, with a serious look
said Traddles, considering about it
said Traddles, in a whisper
said Traddles, with a great enjoyment of his mystery
said my aunt at last, when she had finished her tea, and carefully smoothed down her dress, and wiped her lips
said my aunt, looking earnestly at me
said my aunt, when she saw me making preparations for compounding her usual night-draught
said my aunt, after taking a spoonful of it
observed my aunt, rubbing her nose
returned my aunt, rather grudging the admission
said my aunt, shaking her head, and smiling gravely
my aunt pursued, after a pause
I put in this, on the spur of the moment, warned by the blank expression of his face
he added, looking restlessly in at the door again
returned Mr. Spenlow, with a gracious smile
explained my aunt, rubbing her nose
said my aunt, after a rest
said Agnes, coming to me, and speaking in a low voice, so full of sweet and hopeful consideration that I hear it now
said Uriah Heep, with a writhe
said Uriah, with a fawning jerk
he added, as an afterthought
said my aunt, with great indignation
said Mr. Wickfield, in a monotonous forced way
said Uriah, drawing up one leg, at the risk of bringing down upon himself another visitation from my aunt
said I (now, really, without any nonsense
said I, with a little - I hope innocent - flattery
said Traddles, opening his eyes
said Traddles, suddenly, taking a letter out of his pocket, and giving it to me
said Mr. Micawber, a little impatiently
he said, with an official air
said Mr. Micawber, boastfully disparaging himself, with the old genteel air
said Mrs. Micawber, assuming a profound air
observed Mr. Micawber - but glancing inquisitively at Traddles, too
in allusion to his baldness
said Mr. Micawber, rising with one of his thumbs in each of his waistcoat pockets
here Mr. Micawber carefully referred to papers
replied Dora, slapping my hand
said Dora, shaking her curls
said I, at last resuming it
said I, warming with the subject
said Mr. Spenlow, as Miss Murdstone brought a parcel of letters out of her reticule, tied round with the dearest bit of blue ribbon
pursued Miss Murdstone in a disdainful voice
another telling blow at Mr. Spenlow
I went on, swallowing that colder designation
I answered, speaking to him as respectfully and sorrowfully as I felt
said Mr. Spenlow, more like Punch than I had ever seen him, as he energetically struck one hand upon the other - I could not help noticing that even in my despair
I began again, substituting a new form of expression for what was so unpalatable to him
interrupted Mr. Spenlow, nodding his head a great many times, and frowning very much
said Mr. Spenlow, confirmed by this support
said Mr. Spenlow, with an evident increase of pious sentiment, and slowly shaking his head as he poised himself upon his toes and heels alternately
for I had alluded to her in the letter
said Tiffey, putting on his glasses
said Mr. Micawber, glancing at some letters he was writing
said Mr. Micawber, with an air of constraint
returned Mr. Micawber, after some uneasy evolutions on his stool
said Mr. Micawber, representing it on the desk with the office ruler
said Mr. Micawber, indefinitely kissing his hand and bowing with his genteelest air
said I, when we were sitting together, side by side
said I, a little embarrassed
replied Agnes, with a modest hesitation
returned Agnes, raising her soft eyes to mine
returned Uriah, with a grin
said Mrs. Heep, in acknowledgement of my inquiries concerning her health
he said, still hugging himself in that unpleasant way, and shaking his head at me
said I, constraining myself to be very temperate and quiet with him, on account of Agnes
said I, breaking a pretty long silence
he said, addressing Mr. Wickfield, sitting, such a contrast to him, at the end of the table
said Uriah, either not regarding him, or not knowing what the nature of his action was
said he, in a croaking whisper, as he hung by the iron on the roof
she would assure me with a nod
he said, gripping me tight
he replied, patiently shaking his head
he replied, shaking the snow out of his long hair
he said, lifting up his head soon after we were left alone
he said, selecting it from the rest
After looking at it for some moments, he gave it to me, and added in a low voice
said Mr. Peggotty in a solemn whisper
said Traddles, lifting off his hat, and rubbing his hair all kinds of ways
returned Traddles with perfect innocence
replied Traddles, on whose attentive face a thoughtful shade had stolen
said Traddles, looking at me in dismay
said one of the two little ladies
said Miss Clarissa, breaking out again, if I may call anything so calm a breaking out
said Miss Clarissa, having now relieved her mind
said Miss Lavinia, glancing at her sister for corroboration, which she gave in the form of a little nod to every clause
observed Miss Lavinia, evidently taking a new interest in him
I exclaimed, relieved of an immense load of apprehension
assented Miss Lavinia, with a sigh
said Traddles, turning to me
said Miss Lavinia, again referring to her notes
with an inclination of her head towards Traddles, who bowed
said Miss Lavinia, holding up her hand
said Dora, making a rosebud of her mouth
said he, as he forced himself upon my company for a turn in the Doctor's garden
putting his fish-like hand on mine
he replied, with a dry grin
he pursued, when he had slowly restored his face to its natural form
he continued, raising that part of his countenance, where his red eyebrows would have been if he had had any, with malignant triumph
she said, shaking her curls at me
said Agnes, with a smile
said Dora, in her coaxing way
said Dora, her bright eyes shining very brightly, and her little right hand idly busying itself with one of the buttons of my coat
said Dora, still turning the button round and round
she added, after a moment
she said, giving me her hand
observed Uriah, with a writhe of his ungainly person
resumed Uriah in the same officious manner
said Mr. Wickfield again laying his irresolute hand upon the Doctor's arm
said Mr. Wickfield in a tremulous voice
said Mr. Wickfield, glancing helplessly and distractedly at his partner
said Mr. Wickfield, quite subdued
said Uriah, writhing himself into the silence like a Conger-eel
returned Uriah, undulating all over
he said at length, in a breathless voice
he said, removing his hand from his cheek
he said, in my ear (I did not turn my head), 'you're in quite a wrong position'; which I felt to be true, and that made me chafe the more
I said one day to Dora
said I, referring to my watch
cried Dora, with a kiss
said I, after some further contemplation of the fire
returned my aunt, with some emotion
said my aunt, smoothing her dress
here my aunt rubbed her nose
said Traddles, cheerfully examining the dish
resumed my wife, after a long silence
she said to him one day when I was present
said Mrs. Markleham, with a flourish of her fan
for the Doctor made a gesture of deprecation
said Mrs. Markleham, tapping him on the shoulder with her shut-up fan
said the Old Soldier, giving him several affectionate taps
said Mr. Dick, dropping his voice to a whisper
bringing his chair nearer, and laying one hand upon my knee
he pursued in a whisper
repeated Mrs. Markleham, spreading the newspaper on her lap like a table-cloth, and patting her hands upon it
said Mrs. Markleham, mechanically following her with her eyes
said the Old Soldier, after listening
she said in a low, submissive, tender voice
she answered, in the same way
said Annie without removing her eyes from his face
said Annie, still preserving the same look and tone
proceeded Annie, with a heightened colour
cried Mrs. Markleham, in tears
said my aunt, with an air of unqualified approbation
said Mr. Littimer, rubbing his hands uneasily
he said, with infinite respectability and an obedient bow
said Mr. Littimer, after a moment's reflection
I could not bring myself to utter any more conciliatory word
he said, awakening from his abstraction
he rejoined, with an occasional separation and reunion of those delicate tips
I added, as I saw him moving off
she observed, with a slow curling of her lip
with her black eyes full upon me, and her passionate finger up
said Mrs. Steerforth, as the other was about to interpose
said I, taking the chair he handed me
he said, as we came downstairs
she had shrunk away from him
she said, in a broken voice
she said, glancing at it with a terrible expression
exclaimed the girl, with most forlorn regret
he repeated, with a quiet assurance of the truth of what he said
returned my aunt, with great emotion
returned my aunt, taking my arm
my aunt proceeded, laying her hand as usual on the back of mine
said my aunt, with an echo of her old pride and admiration in her tone
exclaimed Dora, opening her eyes wide
I returned, gently trying to remove the handkerchief she pressed to her eyes
said my aunt quietly working by her side
said Dora, looking at him with compassion
he was now alluding to Mrs. Micawber's letter, and we were standing side by side comparing the two
said Mr. Micawber, after the first salutations
he returned, pressing my hand
returned Mr. Micawber, whose face clouded at this reference
said Mr. Micawber, nodding his head sorrowfully
observed Mr. Micawber, looking fondly back over his shoulder
returned Mr. Micawber, bursting into a state of much excitement, and turning pale
said Mr. Micawber, now turning red
said Mr. Micawber, unfeignedly sobbing, but doing even that, with a shadow of the old expression of doing something genteel
said Mr. Micawber to my aunt
for Mr. Dick was shaking hands with him again
he desperately observed after a pause
said Mr. Micawber, behind his handkerchief
said Mr. Micawber, gasping, puffing, and sobbing, to that degree that he was like a man fighting with cold water
said Rosa Dartle, with a contemptuous laugh
she said, not deigning to take any heed of this appeal, and drawing away her dress from the contamination of Emily's touch
she said, stretching out her hand with her contemptuous laugh, and looking down upon the prostrate girl
she added, slowly and sternly, opening the other door to go away
Mr. Peggotty began, as he raised his eyes to ours
he said, in stern wrath for the moment
said Mr. Peggotty, dropping his voice to an awe-stricken whisper
he said aloud, and with an energy of gratitude that shook him from head to foot
said my aunt, drying her eyes
said I to Mr. Peggotty
said Mr. Peggotty, shaking his head
he proceeded with a grave smile, when he had made up his little bundle again, and put it in his pocket
said Mr. Omer, resuming his pipe
said Mr. Omer, taking himself up, where he had left off
said Mr. Omer, rubbing his hands feebly
Mr. Omer shook himself and his chair with laughter at the success of his device
said Mr. Peggotty, in a low voice
said Mrs. Gummidge, suddenly deserting her basket, and clinging to his arm
said Mr. Peggotty, shaking his head
said Dora, putting back her hair, and looking wonderingly at my aunt and me
to Mr. Dick, who shook hands with him violently
cried Mr. Micawber, stopping him on his way to the bell
said my aunt to Mr. Micawber, as she put on her gloves
said Uriah, writhing in his ungainly manner
he said, with an effort at a smile
said Mr. Micawber, suddenly breaking out again with the utmost vehemence
said Uriah, in the same low voice, and breaking out into a clammy heat, which he wiped from his forehead, with his long lean hand
said Uriah, turning uglier than before
Mr. Micawber, without looking off the letter, pointed the ruler, like a ghostly truncheon, at Uriah Heep
always pausing before that word and uttering it with astonishing vigour
he read on, glancing at him, and drawing the ruler into a convenient position under his left arm, in case of need
said Mr. Micawber, breaking off from the letter
he repeated, looking at me, with a snarl
Mr. Micawber read again, looking about as if it were the text of a sermon
he said, with an impatient bite at the handkerchief in which his hand was wrapped
he angrily retorted, pointing his lean finger at me, against whom all his animosity was levelled, as the prime mover in the discovery; and I did not undeceive him
Mr. Micawber made a good deal of this, as a new turn of expression
said the poor lady, giving me her hand
said Mr. Micawber, full of fire and animation
repeated Mrs. Micawber, with her clearest business manner
she says, when I smile
said Mr. Micawber, looking round the room as if it represented several hundred acres of highly cultivated land
said Mr. Micawber, with some pride
said Mrs. Micawber, who always fell back on me, I suppose from old habit, to whomsoever else she might address her discourse at starting
said Mrs. Micawber, with an air of deep sagacity
said Mr. Micawber, with some heat
said Mrs. Micawber, shaking her head
said Traddles, leaning back in his chair when they were gone, and looking at me with an affection that made his eyes red, and his hair all kinds of shapes
pursued Traddles, at once with great delicacy and with great earnestness
said Agnes, looking to me
inquired my aunt, with uncommon composure
cried Traddles, beaming with joy
said my aunt, after a pause
said Traddles, a little disconcerted
rejoined Traddles, opening his eyes
said my aunt, after silently observing him
said my aunt, as we walked back to the chariot
she said, when I opened my eyes
he said, when we had shaken hands
I asked the coachman, in the first stage out of London
he said, cheerily grasping me by both hands
said he, with tears starting to his weather-beaten face, which, with his trembling lips, was ashy pale
said I, looking at her
cried Rosa, smiting herself passionately on the breast
she cried, tearing her black hair
said Mr. Micawber, striking himself on the breast
observed Mr. Micawber, with a glance of intelligence at me
said Mr. Micawber, clearing his throat in his magnificent way
said Mr. Micawber, with an intense satisfaction in their renouncement
said Mrs. Micawber, setting down her tin pot
observed Mr. Micawber, with his usual suddenness of warmth on that subject
said his wife, in a low tone
said Mrs. Micawber, pensively shaking her head
said Mr. Micawber, trifling with his eye-glass
said Mr. Micawber, with the old genteel air
said Mrs. Micawber, shaking her head
said Mrs. Micawber, in her argumentative tone
said my aunt, nodding towards Mr. Peggotty
said Traddles, rumpling his hair in his excitement, which was a most unnecessary operation
said Traddles, sticking his hair upright with both hands, and then putting his hands on my knees
said Traddles, in a low confidential voice
said Traddles, nodding triumphantly at the flower-pot and stand
falling again into the low confidential tone
said Traddles, with his old frank smile
said Traddles, breaking off in his confidence, and speaking aloud
returned Mr. Chillip, smiling very meekly, and shaking his head as he surveyed me
said Mr. Chillip, slowly shaking his little head again
he returned, in his slow way
said Mr. Chillip, stirring it
returned Mr. Chillip, with his placidest smile
said Mr. Chillip, fortifying himself with another sip of negus
he proceeded, in the calmest and slowest manner
pursued the meekest of little men, much encouraged
he continued, mildly laying his head on one side
said my aunt, patting the back of my hand, as we sat in our old way before the fire
I seemed to hear my aunt say once more; and I understood her better now
said my aunt, earnest even to the filling of her eyes with tears
said Agnes, with her cordial eyes turned cheerfully upon me
showing me the basket-trifle, full of keys, still hanging at her side
said Mr. Wickfield, shaking his white head
with her eyes upon me
she replied with a smile
returned Tom, in a delighted state
replied Traddles, laughing, and reddening
said I, looking over my letters
replied Uriah, glancing in the new direction of this voice
said Uriah, looking round with a meek smile
said a gentleman in spectacles, who had not yet spoken
said Mr. Littimer, without looking up
returned Mr. Littimer, slightly lifting up his eyebrows, but not his eyes
said Mr. Creakle, entering on a clear stage with his man
returned Uriah, with a jerk of his malevolent head
said Uriah, stealing a look at us, as if he would have blighted the outer world to which we belonged, if he could
said I, as we walked along the passage
returned my informant, speaking throughout in a low tone, and looking over his shoulder as we walked along the passage, to guard himself from being overheard, in such an unlawful reference to these Immaculates, by Creakle and the rest
said I, standing composedly before her - she had patted me on the shoulder, and sat down in my chair
said my aunt, peering through the dusk
said my aunt, turning scarlet
he said, kissing her hand
said Mr. Peggotty, surprised to find it out
said Mr. Peggotty, reverentially inclining his head
he said, shaking his head
said Mr. Peggotty, looking at the fire
</text>
