<text>
the Dean (not unflattered by this indirect homage) condescendingly remarks
thus discreetly does Mr. Tope work his way round the sunken rock
says the Dean, with a sprightly air of breaking up the little conference
Mr. Jasper interposes, taking his place at the table with a genial smile
the former resumes, after some silent dipping among his fragments of walnut with an air of pique
Jasper resumes, as he shakes his head with a grave cheerfulness
once more apostrophising the portrait
he returns with angry emphasis
often nodding her head, and much enjoying the Lumps
cries Rosa, shaking her head and bursting into real tears
observes Jasper, watching the auctioneer with a smile as the latter stretches out his legs before the fire
Mr. Sapsea begins, and then stops
Mr. Sapsea rejoins, with unspeakable complacency
rather as if stopping himself on the extreme verge of adding
says Mr. Sapsea, with his legs stretched out, and solemnly enjoying himself with the wine and the fire
resumes the auctioneer, producing his scrap of manuscript
in reference to a buried magnate of ancient time and high degree
exclaims Jasper, looking on amused
it comes into Jasper's mind to say, as he idly examines the keys
observes Durdles, turning himself about again, and as unexpectedly forgetting his offence as he had recalled or conceived it
pursues Durdles, considering about it with the same sodden gravity
repeats Jasper, looking over his shoulder
says Jasper, pursuing his subject of romantic interest
remarked the old lady, looking on
inquired the Minor Canon, giving proof of a wholesome and vigorous appetite
his mother went on, reading very perspicuously and precisely
the old lady read on with a little extra emphasis
interposed the gentle Minor Canon, laying down his knife and fork to rub his ear in a vexed manner
remarked the Minor Canon in the same tone as before
said Septimus, after a little more rubbing of his ear
the old lady replied after some hesitation
said Mr. Crisparkle, after thinking the matter over
said the driver, very deliberately, as he got down
replied the passenger, also descending
expostulated the driver, becoming more chafed in temper
he became less severe, in spite of himself, as his indignation rose
this was said in a hesitating voice
replied Rosa, in a tone of affectionate childishness that went straight and true to her heart
cries Edwin, leading on again at a somewhat quicker pace
says Jasper, in a soothing manner
says Edwin, with a boyish boastfulness getting up in him
retorts Edwin, turning merely his eyes in that direction
Jasper assents, with an air of interest
says Edwin Drood, equally furious, but more collected
he cries in a loud voice
says the Minor Canon, shaking his head with a sorrowful smile
pursues the young man, instantly obeying
adds Jasper, with great earnestness
pursues Jasper, taking his hand
returns Jasper, with an emphasis on the last pronoun
and saying with a forensic air
returned Miss Twinkleton, repeating the word with a charming grace
said Mr. Grewgious, laying his hand on Rosa's, as the possibility thrilled through his frame of his otherwise seeming to take the awful liberty of calling Miss Twinkleton my dear
said Mr. Grewgious, with a bend of his head towards the corner window
proceeded Mr. Grewgious, as if it suddenly occurred to him to mention it
said Mr. Grewgious, referring to his notes, disposing of
said Rosa, hurriedly and earnestly
said Mr. Grewgious, stammering a little
Miss Twinkleton might have said a pen-and-ink-ubus of writing out Monsieur La Fontaine
said Mr. Grewgious, peeping in
returned Jasper, with a friendly pressure of his arm, as they walked on side by side
said the Minor Canon to his mother one day as she sat at her knitting in his little book-room
said Mrs. Crisparkle, retiring on first principles
said Mr. Crisparkle, rubbing his ear, as his mother resumed her seat, and her knitting
interposed the old lady, knitting on firmly
said the old lady, quickly
Mr. Crisparkle again resumed, in a tone of mild though firm persuasion
said Neville, with a glance of deference towards his tutor
remarked Mr. Crisparkle, again laying hold of his opportunity, though with a moderate and delicate touch
asked Helena, with a little faltering in her manner
hinted the Minor Canon, with a steady countenance
said Neville, pressing his hand upon his face
said the Minor Canon softly
returned Mr. Crisparkle, as he sat himself down in the easy-chair placed for him
said Jasper, in conclusion, twirling the leaves of the book before putting it by
said Jasper, shrugging his shoulders
said Jasper, as they shook hands
said Mr. Grewgious, in a lower tone, after his clerk's departure
said Mr. Grewgious, rearranging his skirts
said Mr. Grewgious, smoothing down his head
said Mr. Grewgious, jingling his glass on the table with one hand, and bending aside under cover of the other, to whisper to Edwin
resumed Mr. Grewgious, still sitting and speaking exactly as before
Mr. Sapsea remarks, looking about him for information
cries Sapsea, picking up the ball thrown to him with ineffable complacency and pomposity
Mr. Crisparkle can be distinctly heard to observe, as they turn back
answers Durdles with his usual composure
he says, giving it to Durdles
Jasper adds, taking it from the pavement and turning it bottom upwards
says Jasper, giving him his hand
retorts Jasper, ferociously, though with a strong check upon himself
but annually stopped on the brink of that expression, and substituted
clasping her hand on his arm
said Rosa, as she dried her eyes
said Edwin, in a low voice
says Neville, when they have walked some distance and are turning
says Mr. Crisparkle, clapping him on the shoulder with friendly encouragement
Mr. Crisparkle pursues, as they come out of the Cathedral
says Mr. Crisparkle, stopping at the steps of his own door to shake hands
says Mr. Crisparkle, opening the entrance-door with his key
he proceeded, growing more enraged
said the man, as he spat out some blood, and wiped more from his face
said Neville, pointing out his late adversary
said the tearful Mrs. Tope
said Mr. Grewgious, with his usual air of repeating a lesson
pursued Jasper, eagerly following the new track
interposed the Dean, nodding his head smoothly
said the Dean, in a more confidential tone, and slightly glancing around him
said Mr. Honeythunder, in his tremendous voice, like a schoolmaster issuing orders to a boy of whom he had a bad opinion
said Mr. Honeythunder, as if that made the matter infinitely worse, and he could have easily borne the loss of an old one
retorted Mr. Honeythunder, in his most offensive manner
returned the Philanthropist, raising his voice to a roar
bellowed Mr. Honeythunder, with a solemnity and severity that would have brought the house down at a meeting
said Mr. Honeythunder, shaking his head again
returned the professional Philanthropist, getting up and thrusting his hands down into his trousers-pockets
repeated Mr. Crisparkle, without noticing the interruption
said the Minor Canon, in a tone so purely sympathetic that the young man caught his hand
sighed Neville, half wearily and half cheerily
he said, coming from the window with a frank and smiling air, and a prepossessing address
he said, shaking his shock of hair, as a Newfoundland dog might shake his before sitting down to dinner
replied the waiter, with modest confidence in its resources that way
said the waiter, brightening, as he rubbed his chin with his hand
cried the boy, as the poor creature leaped
said Mr. Datchery, making a leg with his hat under his arm, as he addressed himself equally to both gentlemen
added Mr. Jasper, presenting Mr. Datchery with a courtly motion of his hand towards that potentate
said Mr. Datchery, with a low bow
said Mr. Datchery, with an ingenious smile and bow
pompously went on the Mayor
said Mr. Sapsea, appearing to descend from an elevation to remember it all of a sudden; like Apollo shooting down from Olympus to pick up his forgotten lyre
returned Durdles, with a penny between his teeth and certain halfpence in his hands
says Rosa, with sudden spirit
Rosa pleads with him, turning paler
he observes with a smile, as he folds his hands upon the sun-dial and leans his chin upon them, so that his talk would seem from the windows (faces occasionally come and go there) to be of the airiest and playfullest
said Rosa, at once with a burst of tears, and a stamp of her little foot
cried Mr. Grewgious, putting the lamp upon it, and taking his seat opposite Rosa
cried Rosa, drawing her chair a little nearer, and her mind reverting to Jasper
pursued Mr. Grewgious in the same tone
said Mr. Grewgious, passing his hand under his chin
he said at this point
was his only remark at last
taking her to the open window
asked Rosa, appealing to them both
hinted Mr. Grewgious, with habitual caution
said Mr. Grewgious, advancing with extended hand
Mr. Grewgious announced, after taking a jog-trot or two across the room, so unexpected and unaccountable that they all stared at him, doubtful whether he was choking or had the cramp
cried Mr. Grewgious, smoothing his head triumphantly
thought Rosa, glancing at it
said Rosa with a blush
said Rosa, in rapid conclusion
Helena pursued after more reflection
said Mrs. Billickin, becoming aspirational with excess of faintness
returned Mrs. Billickin, with much solemnity
said Mrs. Billickin, addressing Rosa reproachfully
replied Mrs. Billickin, turning upon him with ceremony, as if the time had now come when a distinct understanding on a difficult point must be arrived at, and a solemn confidence established
said Mrs. Billickin in a new burst of candour
said the B., enveloped in the shawl of state
said Miss Twinkleton with a gracious air, which to the jealous ears of the Billickin seemed to add
observed the Billickin with a gush of candour
returned Miss Twinkleton, from a remote moral eminence
retorted the Billickin, throwing in an extra syllable for the sake of emphasis at once polite and powerful
said Miss Twinkleton, still from her distant eminence
resumed the Billickin, in a courtly manner, 'before retiring on the
proclaimed the Billickin to Rosa, loftily cancelling Miss Twinkleton
said the Billickin, with a sarcastic smile
observed Miss Twinkleton with majestic cheerfulness
the Billickin would exclaim (still no word being spoken by Rosa
she croaks under her breath
he suggests, with a backward hitch of his head
she replies, in a confidential and persuasive tone
</text>
