<text>
said Mr. Gradgrind, squarely pointing with his square forefinger
said the gentleman, after another and a dismal pause
said Mr. Gradgrind, leading each away by a hand
muttered Louisa, haughtily, without lifting up her eyes
said her husband in a lofty manner
said Mr. Gradgrind, drawing a chair to the fireside
said Gradgrind, pondering with his hands in his pockets, and his cavernous eyes on the fire
said Mr. Bounderby, with a loud short laugh
retorted Mr. Childers, after surveying him from head to foot
said Mr. Childers, raising his voice
asked Mr. Gradgrind, eyeing him in a sort of desperation
said Mr. Childers, with a nod
resumed Childers, feigning unconsciousness of Mr. Bounderby's existence
said Mr. Childers, stroking his face again, and repeating his look
said Mr. Sleary, who was troubled with asthma, and whose breath came far too thick and heavy for the letter s
cried the girl, bursting into tears again after a minute's silence
he said, sweeping her with a professional glance as if she were being adjusted in her seat
continued Sleary, rendered more pursy than ever, by so much talking
returned Mrs. Sparsit, with a dignity serenely mournful
rejoined Mrs. Sparsit, with decent resignation
returned Mrs. Sparsit with a shake of her head
said Mr. Gradgrind, in a conciliatory voice
asked Mr. Gradgrind, in a still lower voice
said Tom, tumbling his hair all manner of ways with his sulky hands
Tom had paused to find a sufficiently complimentary and expressive name for the parental roof, and seemed to relieve his mind for a moment by the strong alliteration of this one
said his sister, after silently watching the sparks awhile
said Tom, spitefully setting his teeth
enquired his sister, slowly, and in a curious tone, as if she were reading what she asked in the fire, and it was not quite plainly written there
returned Tom, pushing his chair from him, and standing up
Louisa repeated in her former curious tone
said Mrs. Gradgrind, who had opened the door without being heard
whimpered Mrs. Gradgrind, taking a chair, and discharging her strongest point before succumbing under these mere shadows of facts
answered Sissy, upon this encouragement, shaking her head
she whispered the awful fact
said Sissy, covering her eyes, and sobbing yet
said Mr. Bounderby, taking some sherry
Stephen began, raising his eyes from the floor, after a moment's consideration
said Stephen, turning white, and motioning with that right hand of his, as if he gave everything to the four winds
here his countenance expressed marvellous acuteness
he returned, observing her more attentively
turning her head back towards Mr. Bounderby's again
said Rachael, quietly resuming her seat
she answered, rising and embracing him
said Mr. Gradgrind, breaking into a smile, after being for the moment at a loss
pursued Louisa in exactly the same voice as before
here was something to demonstrate, and it set him up again
said Mr. Gradgrind, completely recovered by this time
asked Louisa, her reserved composure not in the least affected by these gratifying results
she went on in a steady, straight way, without regarding this
said Louisa in her quiet manner
assented her eminently practical parent
said her husband, who had waited for the achievement of this feat with some impatience
whimpered Mrs. Gradgrind, adjusting her shawls after the affectionate ceremony
said Mrs. Gradgrind, with a mingled sense of politeness and injury
said Mr. Bounderby, putting his hands in his pockets, and assuring himself with his right hand that the cork of the little bottle was ready for use
said Mrs. Sparsit, in a highly superior manner; somehow she seemed, in a moment, to have established a right to pity him ever afterwards
returned Bounderby, with some resentment in his tone: which was clearly lowered, though in spite of himself
said Mrs. Sparsit, concluding in an impressively compassionate manner
said Mrs. Sparsit, pouring out her tea
said Mrs. Sparsit, making her nose more Roman and her eyebrows more Coriolanian in the strength of her severity
said Mrs. Sparsit, with dignity
said Mrs. Sparsit, carefully brushing an imperceptible crumb of bread and butter from her left-hand mitten
said Mrs. Sparsit, in a very impressive manner
said Mrs. Sparsit, with a most extensive stock on hand of honour and morality
said Bitzer, dropping his voice and drawing nearer
said Bitzer, craning a little to look over into the street from where he stood
he said, turning and removing his hat
towards which he languidly waved his hand, then slightly bowed
said Mrs. Sparsit, suddenly compressing her mouth
pursued the stranger, fluttering over Mrs. Sparsit's eyebrows, with a propitiatory air
returned the stranger, detaching himself from the table
he then said, much exhausted
resumed Bitzer, while he was polishing the table
said Bounderby, obstinately taking a chair
said Jem, turning with a smile to Louisa
said Louisa, still standing before him where she had first stopped - in all the singular contrariety of her self- possession, and her being obviously very ill at ease
he thought, glancing at her as she sat at the head of the table, where her youthful figure, small and slight, but very graceful, looked as pretty as it looked misplaced
said Harthouse, perfectly hearing this under- strain as it went on
returned Tom, with contemptuous patronage
said Slackbridge then, shaking his head with violent scorn
said Stephen, whose low voice was distinctly heard
said Bounderby, in his windy manner
said Mr. Bounderby, now blowing a gale
said Mr. Bounderby, whom he could not have exasperated more, quite unconscious of it though he was, than by seeming to appeal to any one else
Mr. Bounderby made a backhanded point at Mr. James Harthouse with his thumb
repeated Mr. Bounderby, folding his arms
said Mr. Bounderby, by this time blowing a hurricane
returned Stephen, with the quiet confidence of absolute certainty
said Stephen, with an anxious smile
said Mr. Bounderby, with a meaning nod
said the old woman to Stephen
said he, glancing again at Rachael
she said, curiously distressed, and not by any of the usual appearances of sorrow
said Louisa, reddening at her mistake
said Stephen, making the best of it, with a smile
said Stephen, when he stood again with his face uncovered
he would say to a visitor
he resumed, in a lighter manner, and yet with a show of effort in assuming it, which was even more expressive than the manner he dismissed
said James Harthouse, again gliding with the same appearance of effort into his more airy manner
said Louisa, flushing with her own great remembrance in that wise
said Harthouse, after a short silence
she returned, after some indecision: she had been more or less uncertain, and troubled throughout the conversation, and yet had in the main preserved her self-contained manner
he added, having lifted up his eyes and looked about; for he had watched her closely until now
said Mr. Harthouse, putting his hand upon his shoulder and turning him, so that they all three walked towards the house together
said Tom, softening in his admiration of his patron, but shaking his head sullenly too
said Tom with a groan
said Harthouse, clapping him on the shoulder again, with an air which left him at liberty to infer - as he did, poor fool - that this condition was imposed upon him in mere careless good nature to lessen his sense of obligation
said James, dismounting, and giving his bridle to his servant
retorted Bounderby, stopping to wheel round upon him
said Mrs. Sparsit, with a lofty sense of giving strict evidence
said Bounderby, stopping and facing about to confront them all
returned Mrs. Sparsit, with a meek shake of her head
Mrs. Sparsit was fond of observing with a lofty grace: particularly when any of the domestics were present
and departed from a resolution of which she had made rather formal and public announcement, to
she answered with great feeling
said his sister, standing by the bed - she had gradually withdrawn herself and risen
resumed Tom, as if he had made up his mind
pursued Mrs. Sparsit; after acknowledging the compliment with a drooping of her dark eyebrows, not altogether so mild in its expression as her voice was in its dulcet tones
returned Mrs. Sparsit, almost with severity
said Bounderby, cutting the matter short, as it was nothing to boast about
she returned, with more of her first manner on her than he had lately seen
returned Louisa, after sitting thoughtful awhile
said Mrs. Sparsit, apostrophizing the descending figure, with the aid of her threatening mitten
said Bounderby, opening his eyes
said Mrs. Sparsit that afternoon, when her patron was gone on his journey, and the Bank was closing
said Harthouse; Mrs. Sparsit saw with delight that his arm embraced her
said Mr. Gradgrind, wondering more and more
said Mr. Gradgrind, slowly, and with hesitation, as well as with a wretched sense of happiness
and his hand rested on her hair again
he appeared to come to that word with great reluctance always
he said, in a forlorn manner
he yawned at one time
said Mr. James Harthouse, in conclusion
he added, rather hard up for a general peroration
he resumed, as she raised her eyes to him again
returned Sissy, with a blending of gentleness and steadiness that quite defeated him, and with a simple confidence in his being bound to do what she required, that held him at a singular disadvantage
he asked, quite at a loss
said Mr. Harthouse, taking a turn or two across the room, dubiously
he said, stopping again presently, and leaning against the chimney-piece
said Bounderby, bursting into his father-in- law's room late at night
said Mr. Gradgrind, in a tone of temperate remonstrance
replied Bounderby, knocking the flat of his hand several times with great vehemence on the table
said Bounderby, staring with all his might at his so quiet and assuasive father-in-law
he returned, in answer to the coarsely blurted question
Mr. Gradgrind remonstrated in all humility
said Bounderby, with determined obstinacy
Mr. Gradgrind proceeded, in the same depressed and propitiatory manner
said Mr. Gradgrind, shading his face with his hand
said Bounderby, standing up with his hands in his pockets
observed Mr. Gradgrind, in a low voice
and a score or two hailed, with assenting cries of
the caution from one man
said Sissy, timid of the name
said Louisa, for he was present
said her husband, entering with a cool nod
repeated Rachael, as she did not answer
said Louisa, her colour deepening
said Rachael through her sobs
growled the whelp, moving uneasily in his dark corner
returned Rachael, drying her eyes
said Rachael, turning appealingly to Louisa
cried Bounderby, shaking his head, with a whistle
said Rachael, with the tears in her eyes again
said Rachael, throwing off all distrust as a rock throws of the sea
Rachael answered, in a gentler manner
said Rachel, with a tremble in her voice
said Sissy, faintly offering a worn-out scrap of hope
then said Mrs. Sparsit, to some one inside
said poor old Mrs. Pegler, in affectionate championship
said Louisa, when they kept their appointment
Sissy explained, glancing at Louisa
said Mr. Sleary, who had brandy and water at hand
he put a form for them to sit on
said Bitzer, shaking his head
said Mr. Gradgrind, broken down, and miserably submissive to him
returned Bitzer, smiling at the oddity of the question
returned Bitzer, in a very business-like and logical manner
rejoined the old pupil in an argumentative manner
repeated Sleary, shaking his head
said Sleary, after putting his lips to his brandy and water
said Mr. Sleary, putting his head in at the door again to say it
said Bounderby, passing her, and getting his hand upon the lock
Mrs. Sparsit interposed, with sprightly cheerfulness
</text>
