<text>
said Mrs. Mann, running out,-- for the three boys had been removed by this time
inquired Mr. Bumble, grasping his cane
he replied in a calmer tone
said the beadle, evidently gratified with the compliment
said the gentleman in the high chair
said another gentleman in a gruff voice
said the board, looking very knowing
said Mr. Gamfield, 'I wants a
looked well in the accounts
said Mr. Bumble, somewhat less pompously, for it was gratifying to his feelings to observe the effect his eloquence had produced
said the undertaker: taking Mr. Bumble by the gilt-edged lappel of his official coat
sobbed Oliver, clinging to the hand which held the well-known cane
said the undertaker; looking up from the book, and pausing in the middle of a word
replied Mr. Bumble: looking at Oliver as if it were his fault that he was no bigger
said Mr. Sowerberry, who had followed Oliver down
said Mrs. Sowerberry: taking up a dim and dirty lamp, and leading the way upstairs
said Oliver at length: seeing that no other visitor made his appearance
said the undertaker, glancing over it with a lively countenance
said Mr. Sowerberry, taking up his hat
said the man: clenching his hands, and stamping furiously on the floor
said the man: bursting into tears, and sinking on his knees at the feet of the dead woman
whispered Sowerberry in the old woman's ear
said Sowerberry, as they walked home
said Mr. Bumble, when the lady brought her eyes down to earth again
he added, noticing Oliver's look of surprise
said the Jew, glancing slyly at Oliver, and addressing himself to the Dodger
said the Jew, after looking at the insides carefully
said the Jew, inspecting them closely
tapping the fire-shovel on the hearth to add force to his words
said a great lubberly fellow, stepping forward
said the old gentleman to himself as he walked slowly away, tapping his chin with the cover of the book, in a thoughtful manner
exclaimed the old gentleman, halting very abruptly, and staring up into the sky
said the old gentleman, speaking _like_ a gentleman
said Mr. Fang, throwing the paper on one side
he added, with great energy, looking towards the bar
said the old gentleman, raising his hands instinctively
cried the old gentleman, bursting out with the rage he had kept down so long
whispered Oliver, folding his hands together
said Oliver, without taking his eyes from the canvas
said the old lady, looking up for a moment from the broth
added Oliver in a low voice
exclaimed the old lady, starting
said the old lady, suiting the action to the word
said Mr. Brownlow, with a slight shudder
muttered the Jew: changing countenance
added the Jew, speaking as if he had not noticed the interruption; and regarding the other closely as he did so
said the Jew in a soothing manner
replied Nancy in the same composed manner
murmured Nancy in a gentle voice
added the Jew, unlocking a drawer with a shaking hand
said the old lady, good-humouredly
said the old gentleman kindly
said the old gentleman, patting Oliver on the head, and smiling as he did so
said Mr. Brownlow, speaking if possible in a kinder, but at the same time in a much more serious manner, than Oliver had ever known him assume yet
said the old gentleman, moved by the warmth of Oliver's sudden appeal
said the old gentleman at length, in a more cheerful tone
whispered that gentleman to Mr. Brownlow
replied Mr. Grimwig, with a provoking smile
said Mr. Grimwig, with an ironical smile
said Mr. Brownlow, glancing steadily at Grimwig
he said, smiting the table with his fist
replied Sikes, shutting up the knife with a very expressive look
said Sikes, replacing the poker, and surveying him with savage contempt
replied the young lady, disposing of its contents
said the young woman, grasping Oliver's hand
said a man, bursting out of a beer-shop, with a white dog at his heels
said Sikes, putting his other hand to Oliver's throat
said Bill Sikes, putting on his hat with a determined air
said Charley Bates: who, with sundry grimaces, had been affecting to read one of the volumes in question
said Oliver, wringing his hands
chuckled the Jew, rubbing his hands
screamed the girl, struggling violently with the man
said Nancy, pale and breathless from the scuffle
said the Jew, taking up a jagged and knotted club which law in a corner of the fireplace
said the Jew, in a soothing tone; after a pause, during which he and Mr. Sikes had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner
rejoined Sikes, with a growl like that he was accustomed to use when addressing his dog
added Sikes, as he surveyed her with a contemptuous air
said the Jew appealing to him in a remonstratory tone, and motioning towards the boys, who were eagerly attentive to all that passed
replied the Jew, with an attempt at pacification
interposed the Jew, goaded by these reproaches
said the Jew, replacing his club
said Mr. Bumble; not sitting upon, or dropping himself into a seat, as any common jackanapes would: but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair
replied Mrs. Mann, with many smiles
continued Mr. Bumble, striking the table with his cane
said the farmer of infants
said Mrs. Mann with emotion
said the child pressing his small hands together, and speaking with great fervour
observed Mr. Grimwig aside to his friend
said Mr. Brownlow, when the housekeeper appeared
said Master Bates: drawing two or three silk handkerchiefs from his pocket, and tossing them into a cupboard
said Oliver with a half smile
rejoined the Dodger, with a wave of his pipe, 'That was all out of consideration for Fagin
said the Dodger, as the Jew was heard unlocking the door above
said the Jew, who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indignation
said the old man, dropping his hands on his knees
said Sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed
said Sikes, thrusting aside the Jew's hand, with some disdain
said Mr. Sikes, his wrath rising with the recollection of his wrongs
said Sikes, scowling fiercely on his agreeable friend
replied the Jew, with some confusion
said the Jew, recovering his self-possession
rejoined Sikes in a surly voice
said the Jew, fixing his eyes on Oliver
she cried after a while
said she, affecting to busy herself in arranging her dress
said the robber, grasping Oliver's wrist, and putting the barrel so close to his temple that they touched; at which moment the boy could not repress a start
growled Sikes, as Oliver started up
replied Sikes, giving him a shake
said the man, with tipsy gravity
exclaimed Barney, with real or counterfeit joy
said this figure, turning his head towards the door
said Sikes, as he resumed his seat
said Toby, as the young Jew placed some fragments of food, and a bottle upon the table
said Oliver, looking piteously up into the man's face
murmured Sikes, trembling with rage, and drawing the pistol from his pocket
whispered Sikes, drawing a dark lantern from his pocket, and throwing the glare full on Oliver's face
said the matron, leaning her elbow on the table, and looking reflectively at the fire
said the worthy matron, setting it down very hastily on the hob
exclaimed the matron, in a much sweeter tone
said the beadle, smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior information
said the beadle, stopping to unpack his bundle
replied Mr. Bumble, turning up his coat-collar
said Mr. Bumble, glancing at one who, in the centre of her family, was basking before the fire
rejoined the matron with enthusiasm
said Mr. Bumble, slowly, and marking the time with his teaspoon
said Mr. Bumble, slowly flourishing the teaspoon with a kind of amorous dignity which made him doubly impressive
said the matron vivaciously, as she held out her hand for the beadle's cup
said Mr. Bumble, stirring his tea, and looking up into the matron's face
cried that discreet lady in a whisper; for the fright was so great, that she had quite lost her voice
said a withered old female pauper, hideously ugly: putting her head in at the door
said the apothecary's deputy, breaking a lump on the top of the fire with the rusty poker
said the young mag, turning his face towards the bed, as if he had previously quite forgotten the patient
murmured the sick woman, relapsing into her former drowsy state
she cried, jumping fiercely up: her face flushed, and her eyes starting from her head
replied the woman with a groan
said the woman, rambling on, and not heeding the question
said the woman, making a more violent effort than before
replied Master Bates, with a grin
replied Mr. Chitling, very red in the face
asked the Dodger, winking upon Charley and the Jew
cried the Dodger at this moment
said the Jew, answering the mute inquiry
he said, pointing disconsolately to his top boots
replied the man, drawing a gold watch from his fob
said the other, looking over the rails, and speaking in a hoarse whisper
muttered the Jew, as he knocked at the door
said the girl, suddenly looking up
exclaimed the Jew, exasperated beyond all bounds by his companion's unexpected obstinacy, and the vexation of the night
said the Jew, turning quickly round
said the Jew, throwing open a door on the first floor
said Mr. Bumble, stooping over the matron
said Mr. Bumble, checking himself, with native majesty
said that gentleman, sipping his peppermint
said the fattest man of the party
said the third, who had called the dogs back
said Mr. Giles, when he had explained
said Giles, throwing away the table-cloth, and looking very hard at the cook and housemaid
said Giles, turning upon him, and laying great emphasis on the word
said Mr. Giles, nodding his head, approvingly
said Mr. Giles, surveying the pale faces which surrounded him, and looking very blank himself
said Mr. Giles, after a short silence
bawled Giles, calling in a state of great excitement, up the staircase
said the doctor, turning to the young lady
said the doctor, in a whisper, as he softly turned the handle of a bedroom-door
said the surgeon, replacing the curtain
rejoined the surgeon, mournfully shaking his head
said the elder lady, as she folded the weeping girl to her bosom
said Rose, smiling through her tears
said the doctor, laughing heartily
replied Brittles, taking up a candle
he said, making a halt, after a great number of very rapid turns
replied Rose, smiling at the doctor's impetuosity
said Mr. Losberne, at last: sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness
said Blathers, turning to them, as if he pitied their ignorance, but had a contempt for the doctor's
said Blathers, continuing his report
said Blathers, drawing his coat-sleeve across his mouth
said Mr. Blathers: not holding his wine-glass by the stem, but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of his left hand: and placing it in front of his chest
said Mr. Losberne, speaking softly, but with great vehemence notwithstanding
said Rose, when Oliver had been one day feebly endeavouring to utter the words of thankfulness that rose to his pale lips
replied the hump-backed man, coolly
said the hump-backed man, who had watched him keenly
muttered the doctor to himself
said Mr. Losberne to the driver
replied Rose: shuddering as though some deadly chillness were passing over her, while she spoke
said the elderly lady, folding her arms about her
said Oliver, when Mrs. Maylie returned
said Mrs. Maylie, laying her finger on her lip, as she looked steadily into his face
said Mrs. Maylie, pausing to reflect
murmured the man, in a horrible passion; between his clenched teeth
said the good doctor, turning away as he spoke
said Giles: giving a final polish to his ruffled countenance with the handkerchief
returned Mrs. Maylie, laying her hand upon his shoulder
said the young man, impatiently
resumed the old lady, stopping her son as he was about to speak
said Mr. Giles, recovering his usual tone of patronage
he thought he heard the Jew say
the other man seemed to answer
replied Oliver, pointing out the course the man had taken
replied Oliver, shuddering at the very recollection of the old wretch's countenance
continued the young man, passionately
he said, at length, in a low voice
she added, disengaging her hand
said the young lady, turning away, as her temporary firmness forsook her
replied Rose, with a melancholy smile
said Harry Maylie, in a low voice
said Harry, hurrying over his words
cried the doctor, letting down the front glass in a great hurry, and shouting to the postillion
said Mr. Bumble, pursuing the same train of relection
said the stranger; an expression of quiet sarcasm playing about his mouth
said Mr. Bumble, in some surprise
replied Mr. Bumble, shading his eyes with his hand, and surveying the stranger, from head to foot, in evident perplexity
said the stranger, producing a scrap of paper, and writing down upon it, an obscure address by the water-side, in characters that betrayed his agitation
said Monks, observing his alarm
said Monks, when they had all three seated themselves
said Monks significantly, and with a look of eager inquiry
said Mr. Bumble, his teeth chattering as he spoke
said Mrs. Bumble, in reply
asked Monks, in the same hollow whisper
said Monks, with quivering lip, and glancing over his shoulder
said the matron, nodding carelessly towards her husband
cried Monks, with desperate eagerness
said the woman, to all appearance unmoved (as Mr. Bumble was very far from being) by the strange man's violence
said his wife addressing Monks, after a short silence
said Monks, with some show of surprise
exclaimed that young gentleman, disclosing to view a huge pasty
observed Mr. Sikes: a little soothed as he glanced over the table
said Fagin, with a sigh
answered Mr. Crackit, pulling up his collar
said Fagin, when they had left the room
he said, hastily concealing the key in his breast
he whispered, as though nettled by the interruption
exclaimed the Jew, starting back as he put down the candle
said Sikes, fixing his eyes upon her, and muttering the words to himself
said a smartly-dressed female, looking out from a door behind her
said the girl, turning to the men again
she said, clasping her hands passionately before her face
said the girl, still weeping
said Rose, turning very pale
said the earnest girl, folding her hands as the tears coursed down her face
cried the girl, sinking on her knees
cried the girl, writhing in agony of her mind
said the girl without hesitation
said Rose, after a pause
replied the girl, wringing her hands
replied Oliver, scarcely able to articulate
replied Oliver, shedding tears of delight
said Oliver, opening a scrap of paper
said the gentleman, in the bottle-green coat, hastily rising with great politeness
cried the old lady, embracing him
said Mr. Losberne, cooling himself with his pocket-handkerchief
said Noah Claypole; for he it was
said Noah, unstrapping it from the woman's shoulders, and slinging it over his own
he whispered, looking round to Barney
replied the Jew, sinking his voice to a confidential whisper
stammered Noah, no longer stretching out his legs like an independent gentleman, but coiling them up as well as he could under his chair
asked Fagin, adding, as Mr. Claypole nodded assent
said Fagin, who felt it necessary to qualify this position
pursued Fagin, affecting to disregard this interruption
said Fagin, shrugging his shoulders, and stretching out his hands
replied Master Bates, in a voice rendered husky by regret
cried Fagin, extending his right hand, and turning to Mr. Bolter in a fit of chuckling which shook him as though he had the palsy
said Fagin, turning to Mr. Bolter
cried Sikes, turning to Fagin
said the girl with great earnestness; then sitting herself down on the floor, before the door, she said
cried Sikes, seizing her roughly by the arm
he pointed with his skinny fore-finger up the stairs
thought Fagin, as he crept homeward
said Fagin, leaning over the table
said the gentleman in a kinder tone
said the gentleman, quickly, as if this had been the point he had been aiming to attain
said the girl after another interval of silence
he said, returning: so it seemed by the sound: to the spot where he had stood before
she said, looking hastily round
said Fagin, drawing his chair nearer
muttered the robber, poising his brawny arm
said Noah, who, as he grew more wakeful, seemed to have a dawning perception who Sikes was
said Fagin, showing that he felt all disguise was now useless
said the girl, in the low voice of alarm
gasped the girl, wrestling with the strength of mortal fear
cried the girl, striving to lay her head upon his breast
said the fellow, producing one
replied the man, winking to the company
said Mr. Brownlow to the attendants
said Monks, throwing down his hat and cloak
said Mr. Brownlow, without seeming to hear the interruption
said Mr. Brownlow, slowly, and fixing his eyes upon the other's face
said Mr. Brownlow, after a short pause
said Mr. Brownlow, drawing nearer to the other's chair
replied Mr. Brownlow, rising too
said Toby turning to Mr. Chitling
replied Chitling, his countenance falling more and more
none of them called the murderer by his old name
said Sikes, turning his face to Crackit
said the boy falling back, as Sikes turned his eyes towards him
cried the murderer, as he staggered back into the room, and shut the faces out
cried an old gentleman from the same quarter
cried Oliver, eagerly clasping the hand of Rose, and pointing out at the carriage window
cried the boy with a burst of affectionate emotion
said Mr. Brownlow, drawing Oliver to him, and laying his hand upon his head
said Mr. Brownlow, speaking for him
said Monks, in a louder tone
cried Mr. Bumble, with ill-feigned enthusiasm
said the foremost one, raising her shrivelled hand
said Mr. Bumble, squeezing his hat emphatically in both hands
said Mr. Brownlow, turning to Rose
returned the old gentlman, drawing her arm through his
cried Mrs. Maylie, folding the fainting girl in her arms
cried Oliver, throwing his arms about her neck
he added after a lengthened silence
said the young lady, bursting into tears
said the man, stopping in a gloomy passage where a couple of workmen were making some preparations in profound silence
said Fagin, drawing Oliver towards him
</text>
