<text>
shouted the stranger, ringing the bell with tremendous violence
said the stranger, cutting the address very short
said the stranger, starting up
replied Mr. Pickwick, referring to his watch
said Mr. Tupman, resuming the subject of the ball
said Mr. Tupman, as the stranger surveyed himself with great complacency in a cheval glass
and he called his companions' attention to the large gilt button which displayed a bust of Mr. Pickwick in the centre, and the letters
and then he whispered Mr. Tupman
said the doctor, in an awful voice, producing a card, and retiring into an angle of the passage
said the stranger, half aside
said the indignant little man
said Mr. Winkle, hastily jumping out of bed, and putting on a few articles of clothing
replied the Boots, as Mr. Winkle opened the door and confronted him
interrupted Winkle, terrified at the idea of his companion's unconsciously pledging himself not to give information
said Mr. Winkle, wishing to make the matter appear as solemn as possible
he said, in a voice tremulous with emotion
he coldly remarked, as he opened the case
said Doctor Slammer, as his friend and Mr. Snodgrass came running up
said the man with the camp-stool
replied Mr. Winkle, who had had time to deliberate upon his answer
said the good-humoured little doctor advancing with extended hand
interposed the man with the camp-stool
said the man with the camp-stool
added Mr. Winkle, after the waiter had retired
he said, addressing Mr. Pickwick, who was considerably mystified by this very unpolite by-play
said the doctor, suddenly addressing Mr. Tupman, in a tone which made that gentleman start as perceptibly as if a pin had been cunningly inserted in the calf of his leg
said the doctor to the stranger
said the lieutenant contemptuously, turning to Doctor Slammer
said Lieutenant Tappleton, addressing Mr. Pickwick
said the irascible Doctor Payne
said Mr. Snodgrass, in whose bosom a blaze of poetry was rapidly bursting forth
said Mr. Winkle, changing colour
said the jolly old gentleman
said the spinster aunt, with a patronising air
said the amiable aunt, sinking her voice still lower
whispered Miss Emily Wardle to her sister
said the dismal man hurriedly
said the dismal man, interrupting him
suggested the waiter, looking towards Mr. Winkle
said Mr. Snodgrass, as the equestrian came trotting up on the tall horse, with his hat over his ears, and shaking all over, as if he would shake to pieces, with the violence of the exercise
exclaimed the agonised Mr. Pickwick
roared the man with the red head, emerging from the garden, and looking very hard at the horse
replied the woman, after a little consideration
said the woman, turning into the house; 'I woan't have nothin' to say to
whispered Mr. Winkle, as his friends gathered round him
said the angry Mr. Pickwick
said the hospitable old gentleman
said their hospitable host, throwing it open and stepping forward to announce them
said the old lady, shaking her head
said Mr. Pickwick, grasping the old lady's hand, and speaking so loud that the exertion imparted a crimson hue to his benevolent countenance
said Miss Isabella Wardle, in a low tone
said the hard-headed man with the pippin -- face
said the bustling host, with a natural anxiety to change the conversation
said the criminal Miller triumphantly, as he took up the odd trick at the conclusion of a hand
said the hospitable host, who was sitting in great state next the old lady's arm-chair, with her hand fast clasped in his
resumed the host, after a short pause
said the old gentleman, after a silence of a few moments
said Mr. Pickwick in his turn, seeing that his companion was armed with a gun, and that another lay ready on the grass
shouted the old gentleman, addressing Mr. Winkle
said the little man, rising
said the spinster aunt, with averted head
replied the jolly host.--'My dears, here's my friend Mr. Jingle -- Mr. Pickwick's friend, Mr. Jingle, come
At her time of life
said Mr. Jingle, with affected earnestness
said Mr. Jingle, in a stage-whisper
replied the unabashed Mr. Jingle
exclaimed Mr. Jingle, with another start
said Mr. Jingle, fixing his eyes on the aunt's face
replied the unsuspicious Mr. Tupman, fervently grasping his
said poor Mr. Tupman, again grasping the hand of his companion
he exclaimed, as the man ran out to execute the commission
cried the testy old gentleman
exclaimed the choleric old man
replied Jingle; and then he added, with a knowing wink, and a jerk of the thumb towards the interior of the chaise
cried the girl, who was still leaning over the railing of the gallery
What's that?" says my father
I think you wants one, Sir
Did you, though?" said my father
says my father; for he stopped there wen he drove up, and he know'd nothing about parishes, he didn't
says my father, after he'd thought a moment
What Clarke?" says the lawyer, dipping his pen in the ink
said the thin gentleman, with a conciliatory hem
He turned to the other plump gentleman, and said
interrupted Sam, who had remained a wondering listener during this short colloquy
said the little man solemnly
said the little man, laying his hat on the table
continued Mr. Wardle, turning abruptly round to his sister
said the little man, in a low tone, taking Mr. Wardle and Mr. Pickwick apart
said the little man, as he carefully closed the door
said the little man, still detaining him
said the little man, with a knowing look
said the little man, with a look towards Mr. Wardle
continued the hardened traitor, tossing the licence at Mr. Pickwick's feet
said Mr. Pickwick, when he had grasped his followers by the hand, and exchanged warm salutations of welcome
said Mr. Pickwick, looking about him
added Mr. Pickwick, after half an hour's walking had brought them to the village
continued Mr. Pickwick, rubbing away with all his might, and gazing intently through his spectacles
said Mrs. Bardell, colouring up to the very border of her cap, as she fancied she observed a species of matrimonial twinkle in the eyes of her lodger
said Mr. Pickwick, growing energetic, as was his wont in speaking of a subject which interested him
said the amiable Mr. Pickwick, with a good-humoured glance at his companion
said Mrs. Bardell, trembling with agitation
cried the astonished Mr. Pickwick
said Mr. Pickwick, struggling violently
said the agonised Mr. Pickwick
said Mr. Pickwick when his friend returned
said Sam, 'but it's an astonishin
said that suddenly-transformed individual, as he took his seat on the outside of the Eatanswill coach next morning
That disgraceful and dastardly journal, the INDEPENDENT
said the little man, advancing to meet him
said Pott, looking towards Mr. Perker for corroboration
said the host in explanation of his wife's lament
said Mr. Pott, with great humility
said Mr. Pott, to the servant who brought in candles
added the editor, turning to Mr. Pickwick
said Mr. Pickwick, as his valet appeared at his bedroom door, just as he was concluding his toilet
said his attendant, 'every man slept vere he fell down; we dragged 'em out, one by one, this mornin', and put
says the gen'l'm'n in the chair
Wery well, thank 'ee, Sir," says my father
said the cautious little man
said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey, with a resigned air
said the mayor, at as loud a pitch as he could possibly force his voice to
said a stout, hale personage of about forty, with only one eye -- a very bright black eye, which twinkled with a roguish expression of fun and good-humour
said the enthusiastic Mr. Snodgrass
said the inquisitive old gentleman
said Mr. Pickwick, glancing at his own figure
said Mr. Pickwick, gazing with solemn sternness at his friend
said Mr. Pickwick, considerably excited
said Mr. Tupman, his face suffused with a crimson glow
replied Mr. Pickwick, in the same tone
said Mr. Tupman, after a short pause, speaking in a low, deep voice
said Mr. Tupman, speaking in a voice tremulous with emotion, and tucking up his wristbands meanwhile
exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass, suddenly recovering the power of speech, of which intense astonishment had previously bereft him, and rushing between the two, at the imminent hazard of receiving an application on the temple from each
said Mr. Pott, who was trumpeter in ordinary at the Den
inquired the count, smiling graciously on the gratified Mrs. Leo Hunter
said the count, drawing out the tablets again
said Mrs. Pott, in the most obliging voice
cried the voice, as its owner pushed his way among the last five-and-twenty Turks, officers, cavaliers, and Charles the Seconds, that remained between him and the table
said the excited Mr. Pickwick, rising from his seat
said Job, smacking his lips
said Mr. Trotter, in conclusion
said Job Trotter, turning upon his companion a countenance of deep contrition, and groaning slightly
said Mr. Pickwick, much affected
said Mr. Pickwick, accosting Job
said Mr. Pickwick, with great severity
replied Mr. Pickwick, from the other side of the wall
said the lady abbess, who took care to be on the top stair, the very last of the group
said the lady abbess, with great dignity
said the writing and ciphering governess
said Mr. Pickwick, running forward and grasping Wardle's hand
interposed Mr. Weller, stepping forward
said the old fellow, slapping him on the back
said Mr. Pickwick, raising himself in bed, and indenting his pillow with a tremendous blow
continued Mrs. Pott, raising herself in the arms of her attendant
thought Mr. Winkle, as he wended his way to the Peacock
said the good- humoured old man
said Mr. Tupman, with an effort
said Mr. Pickwick, in conclusion
said Mr. Pickwick, at length recovering the power of speech
said Wardle, with a smile
ejaculated Mr. Pickwick, as the recollection of the scene in question struck forcibly upon him
whispered Mr. Winkle to Wardle, as the man let down the steps
said poor Winkle, turning his gun- stock uppermost
said Wardle to Mr. Tupman
said the old gentleman, smiling
said Wardle, walking up to the side of the barrow, and wiping the streams of perspiration from his jolly red face
says he, a-winkin' at me
says he, a-squeezing my hand wery hard, and vispering in my ear
says he, a-pointin' to a wery nice little tabby kitten
replied Mr. Weller, continuing his occupation of emptying the basket
replied the boy, taking from his shoulder a couple of large stone bottles, fastened together by a leathern strap
continued Mr. Pickwick, still retaining his hold upon the jar
said Mr. Pickwick, looking earnestly at the stone bottle
But as there was a humorous expression in Wardle's face, Mr. Pickwick checked himself, and said
said old Wardle, half-bursting with laughter
said Wicks, in a tone of the deepest admiration
whispered Mr. Weller to his master
said Fogg, thrusting his hands into his trousers' pockets, and throwing himself back in his chair
said Mr. Pickwick, gazing placidly on the two partners
continued Dodson, with moral elevation in his air
said Mr. Pickwick, with considerable pain depicted in his countenance
observed Fogg, glancing at Dodson
said Dodson, displaying a slip of parchment in his right hand, and affectionately pressing a paper copy of it, on Mr. Pickwick with his left
said Mr. Pickwick, rising in person and wrath at the same time
said the excited Mr. Pickwick, turning round on the landing
said Mr. Weller, senior, with much solemnity in his manner
said Mr. Weller, senior, taking off his hat
replied his father, 'for their appearance is wery sing'ler; besides that 'ere, I wondered to see the gen'l'm'n so formiliar with his servant; and, more than that, as they sat in the front, right behind the box, I heerd
said Mr. Weller the elder
replied Mr. W., stopping short
said Mr. Pickwick, hastily producing his note-book
said a thin, miserable-looking old woman, stopping to recover breath after the ascent of the staircase
said Mr. Pickwick, half aside to Sam
said Mr. Pickwick, looking at the old woman, whose appearance, as well as the condition of the office, which she had by this time opened, indicated a rooted antipathy to the application of soap and water
replied the old woman gruffly
he said, when Mr. Pickwick had concluded
replied Mr. Perker's clerk; and then seeing Mr. Pickwick's eye wandering curiously towards the table, he added
said Mr. Pickwick, hoping to start a subject which all the company could take a part in discussing
said the chairman, whispering across the table to Mr. Pickwick
said the little old man
added the old man, with a shrewd look round the table
he added, turning to Lowten
said the red-haired man, placing the card in his pocket- book
said Mr. Peter Magnus, with a bashful titter
said Mr. Pickwick, winding up his watch, and laying it on the table
said Mr. Pickwick to himself, smiling till he almost cracked the nightcap strings
said Mr. Pickwick, thrusting out his head. in the extremity of his desperation
said the lady, covering her eyes with her hands
said the lady, sobbing violently
said Mr. Pickwick, making his appearance at the bottom of the bed
resumed Mr. Pickwick, gathering up his shoes, and turning round to bow again
said Mr. Pickwick, suddenly appearing before him
said Mr. Pickwick, as he got into bed
said Job Trotter, as they walked away
replied Job Trotter, with the same sly look which Sam had noticed before
replied Job, with a quickness very unusual to him
replied Job, speaking with great precision, and in the low tone of a man who communicates an important secret
continued Job, his eyes filling with tears as he spoke
replied Job, heaving a deep sigh
replied Sam, with a very meaning look
said Sam, looking after him
said Mr. Pickwick, with great energy
continued Mr. Pickwick, growing warmer as the subject presented itself in more glowing colours before him
said Mr. Magnus, evidently in a high state of excitement
exclaimed Mr. Magnus, lost in astonishment
said Mr. Pickwick, somewhat indignant at the very sudden manner in which Mr. Peter Magnus had conjugated himself into the imperative mood
said the middle-aged lady, rising from her seat, and averting her head
said the magistrate, reasoning with himself
said the magistrate, drawing himself up proudly
said Mr. Tupman, starting up
said Mr. Grummer, retreating very expeditiously to the door, and opening it an inch or two
said Mr. Nupkins, reddening with passion
said Mr. Pickwick, sending a look through his spectacles, under which even Nupkins quailed
said the magistrate aloud, with great dignity
said Mr. Pickwick, who, together with Mr. Tupman, was all amazement and indignation
added Mr. Pickwick, as he saw that Mr. Nupkins was about to offer a very indignant interruption
said Mr. Pickwick, replying to the magistrate's look of amazement
said Mr. Nupkins, brightening for a moment, after a long pause
said Miss Nupkins, forcing a tear of very scanty proportions into the corner of each eye
said Mr. Muzzle to the pretty servant-girl
said Mr. Muzzle solemnly, enraged at the last two allusions
said Mr. Nupkins, with magisterial dignity, as Job was brought in
said Mr. Pickwick, growing gradually angry
said Mr. Pickwick, now thoroughly angry
said Mr. Pickwick to Mr. Nupkins
added Mr. Pickwick, pulling out his purse
replied Mrs. Cluppins, eagerly catching at the idea
said Sam, disregarding the interruption
resumed Mrs. Cluppins, glancing at the tin saucepan and the Dutch oven
continued Mrs. Cluppins, with great volubility
said Sam, rising and setting down his glass
continued Mr. Weller, 'as vell as for the other kind and gen'rous people o' the same purfession, as sets people by the ears, free gratis for nothin', and sets their clerks to work to find out little disputes among their neighbours and acquaintances as vants settlin' by means of lawsuits -- all I can say o' them is, that I vish they had the reward I'd give
said Mr. Pickwick, his eyes glistening with delight at this manifestation of filial feeling on the part of his attendant
said a shrill female voice the instant Sam thrust his head in at the door
replied Mrs. Weller; for the rather stout lady was no other than the quondam relict and sole executrix of the dead-and-gone Mr. Clarke
said the imperturbable Sam; 'and I hope this here reverend gen'l'm'n
said the elder Mr. Weller
said Mr. Weller, lowering his voice, and bending across the fireplace
said Mr. Weller, in conclusion
said Mr. Weller, shaking his son eagerly by the hand
said Sam, throwing in the last carpet-bag
said the fat boy, in a very satisfied tone
said the fat boy, putting the reins in his hand, and pointing up a lane
said Mr. Pickwick, almost as soon as they were all seated
said Mr. Pickwick to his old acquaintance, the hard-headed gentleman
and accompanied the request with a look which said as plainly as a look could do
said Mr. Pickwick, rather pettishly
said Mr. Pickwick, with a very expressive smile, as his eyes rested on Arabella
said the fat boy, joining in the conversation
says the old gen'l'm'n's friends
says the old gen'l'm'n to himself
said Mr. Pickwick, looking round him
said Mr. Pickwick, as that favoured servitor entered his bed-chamber, with his warm water, on the morning of Christmas Day
observed Mr. Pickwick, rubbing his hands
said Sam, not noticing his master's interruption
said Wardle, after a substantial lunch, with the agreeable items of strong beer and cherry-brandy, had been done ample justice to
said Sam, in an encouraging tone
said Mr. Pickwick, his indignation rising while he spoke
reiterated Sam, with some indignation
says the widder beginnin' to faint
said the barrister's clerk, producing his own box, and offering it with the greatest cordiality
said Perker, suddenly recovering his gravity, and drawing the great man's great man into a Corner, by the lappel of his coat
Phunky's -- Holborn Court, Gray's Inn
said the little, fierce woman, trying to appear very calm
said Bob Sawyer, with all imaginable humility
said Mrs. Raddle, planting herself firmly on a purple cauliflower in the Kidderminster carpet
said Bob Sawyer, blinking this last question
said Mrs. Raddle, elevating her voice for the information of the neighbours
said Hopkins, with a scarcely perceptible glance at Mr. Pickwick's attentive face
said the prim man in the cloth boots
said Mr. Bob Sawyer, glancing eagerly at the door, as he thought he heard the noise of glasses jingling
said Mr. Bob Sawyer, with great suavity, and dispersing, at the same time, the tumultuous little mob of glasses the girl had collected in the centre of the table
said Mr. Pickwick, observing the conflict of Bob Sawyer's passions, as depicted in his countenance
remarked Bob Sawyer, with a ghastly smile
which he sang as loud as he could, to a novel air, compounded of the
said the wretched Mr. Bob Sawyer
screamed the shrill voice of Mrs. Raddle
said Mr. Weller, turning with an explanatory air to the young lady in the bar
said Mr. Weller, in reproachful accents
observed Sam, holding the letter up to the light
said Mr. Weller, 'there's somethin' in that; and I wish your mother-in-law
continued his progenitor, looking round him very cautiously
whispered Mr. Weller, a moment afterwards, in a tone of deep agitation
said Mr. Humm, holding up his hand in a deprecatory manner, to bespeak the silence of such of the stout old ladies as were yet a line or two behind
replied Mr. Stiggins, in a tone in which ferocity was blended with an extreme thickness of utterance
said Mr. Stiggins, unbuttoning his coat, and speaking very loudly
said Mr. Stiggins, suddenly increasing in ferocity, and turning sharp round on the little man in the drab shorts
said Mr. Weller, taking off his greatcoat with much deliberation
said Mr. Pickwick, looking very blank
replied the little man coolly
said Perker, when they reached the outer hall of the court
said Mr. Pickwick, pointing to a couple of enclosed seats on his right
in a commanding tone, upon which another officer in the gallery cried
in an angry manner, whereupon three or four more ushers shouted
said the chemist, who was a tall, thin, yellow-visaged man
said the chemist, taking his seat with great deliberation
said the judge, writing down the names in his note-book, and reading as he wrote
continued Serjeant Buzfuz, well knowing that, from the learned friend alluded to, the gentlemen of the jury had heard just nothing at all
continued Serjeant Buzfuz, in a soft and melancholy voice
said Serjeant Buzfuz, looking through Mr. Pickwick, and talking AT him
said Serjeant Buzfuz, after a few unimportant questions
said Mrs. Cluppins, with interesting agitation
replied Mrs. Cluppins, in a majestic manner
said the judge sharply, in acknowledgment of the salute
replied Mr. Winkle with natural hesitation
said Mr. Winkle, trembling with anxiety
said Serjeant Buzfuz, folding his arms emphatically, and turning half-round to the jury, as if in mute assurance that he would bother the witness yet
said Serjeant Buzfuz, recovering his spirits
said Serjeant Buzfuz, putting in the two letters to be read
said the individual in black
said little Perker, as he stood in Mr. Pickwick's apartment on the morning after the trial
said Mr. Pickwick, with great seriousness of manner
continued Mr. Pickwick, looking round on his friends with a good- humoured smile, and a sparkle in the eye which no spectacles could dim or conceal
exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, quite staggered by the coincidence
said Sam, again directing his master's attention to the coach door
muttered Sam to himself, as he turned away
exclaimed the Grand Master, looking extremely pleased
said the Dowager Lady Snuphanuph coaxingly
said Mrs. Colonel Wugsby, turning to one of the girls
whispered the other, who was much older than her sister, and very insipid and artificial
replied Mrs. Colonel Wugsby, tapping her daughter's cheek with her fan
said Mrs. Craddock, the landlady, peeping in
replied the long man, with great disgust, taking it for granted that the inquirer was a footman
said Mrs. Craddock, upon the morning of this very eventful day
said Sam, as he unfolded it
said Mr. John Smauker, agonised at the exceeding ungenteel sound
said his new friend, apparently much relieved as they turned down a by-street
resumed Mr. John Smauker, with an air of sublime protection
said Mr. John Smauker, putting forth his fox's head, and elevating his own
said the man with the cocked hat
said Mr. Tuckle, with a most impressive air
said Tuckle, as the new-comer took his seat next Sam
said the gentleman in blue
said the gentleman in blue
said the man in blue, with an air of the most consummate dandyism
said the man in the long coat
said Mr. Pickwick, when Mr. Weller appeared in reply to the summons
continued Mr. Pickwick, with a most perplexed countenance
said Mr. Pickwick, grasping his hand
reasoned Mr. Winkle with himself
said Bob Sawyer, calling his friend's attention to the outer door, on which, in the same white paint, were traced the words
Mr. Winkle adulterated his brandy; and the conversation was becoming general, when it was interrupted by the entrance into the shop of a boy, in a sober gray livery and a gold-laced hat, with a small covered basket under his arm, whom Mr. Bob Sawyer immediately hailed with
said Mr. Winkle, as the boy retired
said Mr. Ben Allen, taking advantage of Mr. Bob Sawyer's temporary absence behind the counter, whither he had retired to dispense some of the second-hand leeches, previously referred to
said Mr. Ben Allen, laying aside the poker, and looking very cunning
replied Mr. Ben Allen, jerking his thumb over his right shoulder
said Mr. Winkle, trembling from head to foot
said Mr. Winkle, hesitating whether to give his hand or not, and almost fearing that it was demanded in order that he might be taken at an advantage
replied another voice through the keyhole
resumed Mr. Weller, in a tone of moral reproof
said Mr. Winkle, extending his hand -- his teeth chattering all the time he spoke, for he had been standing, during the whole of Mr. Weller's lecture, in his night-gear
said Sam, rather sulkily, but giving the proffered hand a respectful shake at the same time
said Mr. Pickwick, addressing Mr. Winkle, as Sam disencumbered him of his great- coat and travelling-shawl
said Mr. Pickwick, with beaming eyes
said Sam, sliding up with an air of great respect
said Sam, with a cunning look
replied Sam, with a solemn shake of the head
said Sam, swinging himself on to the wall, and crouching there in as small a compass as he could reduce himself to
said Sam, 'he's heerd all about it from him; and it's the gov'nor's opinion that if you don't see him wery quick, the sawbones as we've been a-speakin' on
said Sam, with great vehemence; 'but all I can say is, that I'm not only ready but villin' to do anythin' as'll make matters agreeable; and if chuckin' either o' them sawboneses out o' winder
said Mr. Pickwick, after listening attentively to Sam's tale
said Mr. Pickwick, turning hastily aside
said Mr. Pickwick, looking over the wall, and catching sight of Arabella, on the other side
continued Sam, touching his hat as Mr. Winkle descended
said the principal, addressing the young lady at the bar, with Botany Bay ease, and New South Wales gentility
said Mr. Pickwick, in an angry voice, as his attendant made various demonstrations of hostilities
said Price, turning towards Mr. Pickwick
said Mr. Price to the attendant, who in dress and general appearance looked something between a bankrupt glazier, and a drover in a state of insolvency
said the gentleman, thrusting his hands into his pockets, and looking carelessly over his shoulder to Mr. Pickwick
replied Mr. Pickwick, looking down a dark and filthy staircase, which appeared to lead to a range of damp and gloomy stone vaults, beneath the ground
replied Mr. Roker, with indignant astonishment
said Mr. Roker, pausing for breath when they reached another gallery of the same dimensions as the one below
said Mr. Roker, holding the door open, and looking triumphantly round at Mr. Pickwick
said Sam, eyeing the piece of furniture in question with a look of excessive disgust
said Mr. Pickwick, after a few moments' reflection
observed Mr. Weller, in a ruminative tone, 'but I never heerd o' one as I can call to mind
he says (Fleet Market wos there at that time
says the little man, more abrupt than afore
says the turnkey, openin' the gate wery slow and sulky
said the Zephyr, turning round and affecting the extremity of surprise
said Mr. Pickwick, gasping no less from excitement than from the expenditure of so much energy
whispered Smangle, the moment his friend had left the room
replied Sam, glancing at Mr. Smangle's whiskers
said Mr. Roker, filling up a little piece of paper as he spoke
said Mr. Roker, shaking his head slowly from side to side, and gazing abstractedly out of the grated windows before him, as if he were fondly recalling some peaceful scene of his early youth
said Mr. Pickwick, consulting his ticket
and the other his conviction that it was
said the chaplain, looking at three dirty mattresses, each rolled up in a blanket; which occupied one corner of the room during the day, and formed a kind of slab, on which were placed an old cracked basin, ewer, and soap-dish, of common yellow earthenware, with a blue flower
said Roker, taking up his hat with great alacrity
said Mr. Pickwick, laying his hand gently and compassionately on his arm
said Mr. Pickwick, much relieved by this explanation
said Mr. Pickwick, with considerable emotion
said Mr. Pickwick, after a little hesitation
said Mr. Pickwick, with much solemnity
rejoined Sam, after a short pause, 'I think I see your drift; and if I do see your drift, it's my
added Mr. Pickwick, with assumed cheerfulness
cried Mr. Pickwick, calling after him
said Pell, guessing at Mr. Weller's meaning
said Mr. Pell, looking round upon the company
exclaimed the elder Mr. Weller
and a gleam of intelligence lighted up his countenance as he sank his voice to a whisper, and applied his mouth to the ear of his offspring
said Mr. Solomon Pell, who was making out his little bill of costs
said Mr. Pickwick, evidently delighted to see his humble friend again
said Mr. Pickwick, with a smile
said Sam, with a desperate effort
says the patient, starting up in bed
says the patient, comin' down a little
rejoined the cobbler, shaking his head
said Sam, with some sternness
continued the cobbler, 'he left to me
said that worthy, accompanying the inquiry with a score or two of nods
said Smangle, with a solemn countenance
said Mr. Pickwick, shaking hands alternately with Mr. Tupman, Mr. Winkle, and Mr. Snodgrass, who were the three visitors in question
said Mr. Pickwick, tapping Sam on the head as he knelt down to button up his master's gaiters
said Mr. Winkle, colouring beneath Mr. Pickwick's gaze
added Sam, looking at Mr. Winkle, 'I haven't got any right to say what 'It is, fear it should be a wrong
said Mr. Pickwick, after a short silence
said Roker, shaking his head
he gasped after a while, so faintly that they bent their ears close over the bed to catch the half-formed sounds his pale lips gave vent to
said Sam impetuously, when the old gentleman had discharged himself of another shout
said Mr. Weller, wiping his forehead
said Mr. Weller, with a look of deep scorn
replied Mr. Weller, in a rapture of winks
said Mr. Weller, with the tears still running down his cheeks, 'it 'ud ha' been a wery great accommodation to me if I could ha' done it, and
said Sam, politely saluting the lady
whispered the old gentleman into his son's ear, after a long and steadfast contemplation of his lady and Mr. Stiggins
rejoined Mr. Weller, in a still more mysterious manner
said Mr. Pickwick, impatiently interrupting him
said Job, with a look of momentary slyness
said Job, with real tears in his eyes, for once
said Mr. Pickwick, as Sam and his companion drew nigh
as one of the vixenish ladies triumphantly said
said that unhappy gentleman, stepping forward
replied Mrs. Rogers; after whom all the other ladies responded
replied Mrs. Bardell, rather hastily; for it was not at all advisable, with reference to the lodgings, to encourage such notions
observed Mr. Raddle, plucking up a little cheerfulness, and looking round
exclaimed Mrs. Raddle, turning fiercely to the first-floor lodger
said Jackson, when Mrs. Cluppins and Mrs. Sanders had fallen asleep
cried the man with the ash stick, looking into the coach, and shaking Mrs. Sanders to wake her
replied Jackson, drawing her a little on one side
said the turnkey to Weller
responded Lowten, after a little consideration
said little Mr. Perker, shutting the door
said Perker, taking both hands out of his pockets, and striking the knuckles of his right against the palm of his left, emphatically
resumed the little man, who seemed to gather confidence from the snuff
continued Perker, checking off each position on a different finger, as he laid it down
exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, who had been evidently roused by his friend's appeal
replied Mr. Winkle, looking at his blushing young wife
exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, who by this time had resumed his spectacles, and was looking from Arabella to Winkle, and from Winkle to Arabella, with as much delight depicted in his countenance as warmheartedness and kindly feeling can communicate to the human face
said Mr. Pickwick, beckoning one young man towards him
exclaimed Mr. Weller, rubbing his hands
observed Mr. Bob Sawyer, pursuing the thread of the subject
said Mr. Ben Allen, laying down his knife and fork, and fixing his eyes on the visage of his friend
quoth Mr. Robert Sawyer, in reply
said Mr. Ben Allen, setting his teeth together, and speaking more like a savage warrior who fed on raw wolf's flesh which he carved with his fingers, than a peaceable young gentleman who ate minced veal with a knife and fork
said the old lady, struggling with a great shortness of breath, and trembling from head to foot
said the old lady, more flurried than before
said the old lady slowly
interposed Mr. Weller, who had been peeping through the glass door
said Mr. Pickwick, turning to Benjamin Allen
added Mr. Pickwick, hastily checking himself
mildly observed Mr. Pickwick, looking round
added that gentleman, his colour mounting as he spoke
said Bob Sawyer, rubbing his hands
said Mr. Pickwick, with some embarrassment
said Bob, lowering his voice to a confidential whisper
said Mr. Pickwick, stopping in the midst of a most sedate conversation with Ben Allen, bearing reference to the numerous good qualities of Mr. Winkle and his sister
cried Mr. Pickwick, in a state of great excitement
said Mr. Pickwick, whose momentary anger was not quite proof against Bob's immovable self-possession
replied Bob, once more exchanging hats with Mr. Weller
remarked Ben Allen, eyeing the object in question through his spectacles with some interest
rejoined Mr. Pickwick, very properly guarding himself against the possibility of stating an untruth
said Mr. Pickwick, smacking his lips
said the last-named gentleman, with some severity
said Mr. Pickwick, as he drained the last drop
said Mr. Pickwick, endeavouring to reassure himself
said the girl, lighting a lamp, and addressing Mr. Pickwick with a winning smile
added Mr. Pickwick, glancing slightly at his two companions
said Mr. Ben Allen, staring at the old gentleman, out of a pair of very dim and languid eyes, and working his right arm vehemently up and down
inquired Sam, glancing at the driver, after a short silence, and lowering his voice to a mysterious whisper --'wos you ever called in, when you wos
remonstrated Bob Sawyer, looking in at the coach window, as they pulled up before the door of the Saracen's Head, Towcester
said Mr. Pickwick, just awakening from a nap
remarked Sam Weller, coming to assist in the conference
said Sam, addressing his master
which was sure to be attended to; or
said Sam, advancing with a bow
interrupted Pott, drawing back his chair
replied Mr. Pickwick, slightly embarrassed by the question
rejoined Pott, laying his hand on Mr. Pickwick's knee, and looking round with a smile of intellectual superiority
said Pott, folding up the paper quite exhausted
said the agitated Mr. Slurk, pacing to and fro
rejoined Pott, pot-valiant in a double sense
said Slurk, handing the paper to Bob
said Pott, retreating from the stove
said Mr. Slurk, in a taunting manner
said Mr. Pott, moved by this sarcasm
cried Mr. Pickwick, as Pott started up and seized the fire-shovel
said Mary, adjusting the tucker, and feigning unconsciousness
said Sam, putting the letter in his pocket with a gentle sigh
said Sam, hanging his hat on a peg
replied the elder Mr. Weller
said the old gentleman, stifling a sigh with his pipe
Mr. Weller hastily checked himself, and added in a low tone
replied Mr. Weller, poking the fire vehemently
Cos a coachman may do vithout suspicion wot other men may not
rejoined Mr. Weller; ''cos it
whispered Mr. Weller, with apprehensive looks
said Mr. Stiggins, breaking the silence, in a very low voice
whispered Mr. Stiggins, drawing his chair closer to Sam
said Mr. Stiggins hesitatingly, after a few moments' deep thought
said Mr. Weller, throwing all his energy into one most complicated kick, as he at length permitted Mr. Stiggins to withdraw his head from the trough
added Mr. Pickwick, glancing at her pretty face
said Mr. Pickwick taking her hand
resumed Lowten, scraping the back of the pen preparatory to making a fresh split
continued Perker, without noticing Jingle's observation
said Job, advancing a few paces
said Mr. Pickwick, who had been bestowing a score or two of frowns upon Perker, to stop his summary of benefits conferred, which the little attorney obstinately disregarded
said Job, with a cunning look just lurking in the corners of his eyes
said the little man, laughing
added Perker, laying his hand on Mr. Pickwick's shoulder
said the little man, looking at his watch
replied Mr. Pickwick, who had been flashing forth looks of fierce indignation, without producing the smallest effect on either of the sharp practitioners
said Fogg, putting up the pocket-book and drawing on his gloves
said Fogg, softened by the cheque
said the little attorney, who had been in a state of nervous apprehension during the whole interview
repeated Mr. Pickwick, almost breathless
continued Mr. Pickwick, resuming the thread of his discourse
cried the little man, pushing Dodson &amp; Fogg, nothing loath, out of the office
said Dodson, looking towards Mr. Pickwick, as he put on his hat
rejoined Mr. Pickwick, drawing out his pocket- book, and shaking the little man heartily by the hand
said Perker, ringing his bell
replied Perker, with a smile and a pinch of snuff
exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, turning pale
added Wardle, after a moment's hesitation
said Perker, rising and pushing his chair back
inquired Emily, turning her head aside
said Arabella, at length, looking round with a most bewitching smile
said Mary, affecting to blush
rejoined Mary, shaking her head
said the fat boy, in a tone of strong feeling
said Mary, plaiting the table-cloth in assumed coyness
thought Mr. Snodgrass with a smile, and walking on tiptoe to another door near the bedside
said Wardle, looking at his watch
said Arabella, bending forward to kiss her brother
replied Wardle, in the same tone
added the old gentleman aloud
said Mr. Wardle, after an unsuccessful search in all his pockets
said Mr. Pickwick, amidst profound silence and looks of general dismay
said Wardle, adopting the substitute
said Arabella, taking up the defence
said Mr. Weller, accosting his son on the morning after the funeral
said Mr. Weller, after a short meditation
said Mr. Weller, with the gravity of age
said Mr. Pell, touching his hat
said Pell, drawing a chair to the table
said Pell, looking round with a sorrowful smile
continued the attorney in a lower voice
said the elder Mr. Weller, stirring a glass of brandy-and-water, of which one was placed before every gentleman when the oyster shells were removed
said Mr. Pickwick, at length in a kind but somewhat melancholy tone
added Mr. Pickwick more cheerfully
said Mr. Weller, bringing one forward as he spoke
said Mr. Weller, looking indignantly at his son
said Mr. Weller, wiping his forehead
said Mr. Weller, nodding his head with a satisfied air
said Sam, with a little hesitation
continued Sam, plucking nervously at the brim of his hat
said Mr. Weller, walking up to Mr. Pickwick and whispering in his ear
said Mr. Pickwick, taking the old man by the hand
rejoined Mr. Weller, through his set teeth
said Mr. Weller, brightening up
said Mr. Pickwick, locking the pocket- book in his desk
said Mr. Pickwick, making no comment on Mr. Weller's last remark
said Mr. Pickwick, clearing his throat
said Sam, addressing his master
said Mr. Pickwick, whose voice had faltered a little hitherto, but now resumed its customary tone
said Mr. Pickwick, when Mr. Weller had sat down again, rather abashed at his own enthusiasm
murmured the little old gentleman
said the gentleman, nursing his left leg
said the old gentleman in a milder tone
said Joe, who was unusually loquacious
said Mr. Pickwick, a little moved
said Mr. Pickwick in a low voice
</text>
