<text>
gallantly shot him through the head and rode away; the mail was waylaid by seven robbers, and the guard shot three dead, and then got shot dead himself by the other four
the guard called to the voice in the mist
the curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon him
she said, indignantly turning to Mr. Lorry
said Mr. Lorry, after another pause of feeble sympathy and humility
said Monsieur Defarge to himself
said the second of the three, addressing Monsieur Defarge
said her husband, who had kept his bright eye observantly upon her
said Defarge, who had not removed his gaze from the shoemaker
she said, raising her hand to Mr. Lorry as he stooped over them, after repeated blowings of his nose
said Mr. Lorry, resuming on the shortest notice his methodical manners
said Defarge, getting down, and taking him gravely apart
said Mr. Cruncher, varying his apostrophe after missing his mark
said Mr. Cruncher, with unconscious inconsistency
said Mr. Cruncher, who all this time had been putting on his clothes
here he addressed his wife once more
said Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witness at the establishment in question
returned the man, with a relish
turning her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside her
pointing to him who had tossed the paper over
said Carton, still only half turned towards him
muttered Jerry, as he turned
quoth Mr. Lorry, whom the counsel learned in the law had now shouldered back into the group, just as he had previously shouldered him out of it
pursued Mr. Lorry, not minding him
cried Mr. Lorry, thoroughly heated by his indifference
returned the other, oddly disconcerted
pursued Darnay, rising to ring the bell
he muttered, at his own image
said the man at the tavern, whom he had charged to wake him
said Stryver, nodding his head over him as he reviewed him in the present and the past
said his friend, squaring himself at him with a bullying air, as if the fire-grate had been the furnace in which sustained endeavour was forged, and the one delicate thing to be done for the old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School was to shoulder him into it
returned Sydney, with a lighter and more good- humoured laugh
said Mr. Lorry, pausing in his looking about
answered Mr. Lorry, with meekness
he said, when they had got back to the drawing-room and had sat down there in friendly relations
Mr. Lorry went on, with a laughing twinkle in his bright eye, as it looked kindly at her
said Miss Pross, softened by the tone of the apology
said Miss Pross, rising to break up the conference
said Mr. Darnay, as they sat under the plane-tree -- and he said it in the natural pursuit of the topic in hand, which happened to be the old buildings of London
said Darnay, with a smile, though reddening a little angrily
said this person, stopping at the last door on his way, and turning in the direction of the sanctuary
said a ragged and submissive man
said the Marquis, throwing him another gold coin
said Monsieur the Marquis, glancing at his hands
said the Marquis, felicitously sensible that such vermin were not to ruffle him
said the Marquis, glancing at the supper preparation
the nephew stopped a moment in his answer
resumed the nephew, glancing at him with deep distrust
returned the uncle, with refined politeness
pursued the nephew, in his former tone
said the Marquis, touching him on the breast with his forefinger -- they were now standing by the hearth
he added then, after ringing a small bell on the table
said the Doctor, as he stopped short
so he at length began
said Darnay, upon whose ear the mournful voice struck with a reproachful sound
said Darnay, modestly but firmly
said Mr. Stryver, on that self-same night, or morning, to his jackal
returned Sydney, busy concocting the punch
said Stryver, inflating himself at his friend as he made the punch
said Stryver, shaking his head in his bullying way
rejoined Stryver, shouldering the rejoinder at him
answered Carton, with a careless air
said Mr. Stryver, preparing him with ostentatious friendliness for the disclosure he was about to make
answered the man of business
Mr. Lorry paused, and shook his head at him in the oddest manner, as if he were compelled against his will to add, internally
said Stryver, slapping the desk with his contentious hand, opening his eyes wider, and taking a long breath
said Stryver, staring at him
said Mr. Lorry, delighted to be able to make another admission
said Mr. Lorry, mildly tapping the Stryver arm
said Stryver, squaring his elbows
laughed Stryver with a vexed laugh
said Mr. Lorry, quickly flushing again
said Mr. Stryver, shaking his forensic forefinger at the Temple in general, when it was down
returned Mr. Stryver, in the friendliest way
rejoined Stryver, nodding his head in a smoothing and final way
she modestly said, after a little hesitation, and in earnest tears
she answered, after an agitated pause
said Mr. Cruncher, turning to his offspring
returned the man, clapping his hands to his mouth nevertheless, and vociferating in a surprising heat and with the greatest ardour
said Mr. Cruncher, apostrophising himself in his usual way
returned that gentleman, shaking his head
returned Mr. Cruncher, going on again, and lifting off his hat to give his spikes free play
said Mr. Cruncher, after turning it over in his mind
was Monsieur Defarge's not unreasonable reply
began the mender of roads
pursued the mender of roads, on tiptoe and in a low voice
said the kneeling Number Three: his fingers ever wandering over and over those fine nerves, with a strikingly greedy air, as if he hungered for something -- that was neither food nor drink
asked Jacques Two, of Defarge
returned Defarge, drawing himself up
said Defarge, clapping him on the back when it was over, like a patron
said Defarge, in his ear
cried the mender of roads, reflectively
said Madame Defarge, with a wave of her hand towards the place where they had last been apparent
said Defarge, as if a thought were wrung out of his breast
said madame, extending her right hand, for emphasis
returned Defarge, standing before her with his head a little bent, and his hands clasped at his back, like a docile and attentive pupil before his catechist
cried Defarge, reddening a little as if he felt charged with cowardice
said madame, drawing a breath and nodding her head with a stern kind of coquetry
returned madame, coolly and lightly
madame struck in, looking up from her work and her little song
returned madame, lifting her eyebrows a little
said Madame Defarge, with her usual composure
said Defarge, rather pleading with his wife to induce her to admit it
said the Doctor of Beauvais
said Mr. Lorry, who could not sufficiently admire the bride, and who had been moving round her to take in every point of her quiet, pretty dress
remarked the matter-of-fact Miss Pross
observed Mr. Lorry, beamingly adjusting his little wig
drawing his arm soothingly round her waist
he whispered to Miss Pross, after anxious consideration
said Mr. Lorry, touching him affectionately on the arm
said the Doctor, in a subdued tone
he paused and took a deep breath
glancing at his hands again
asked the Doctor, distinctly and collectedly, though in the same low voice
said the Doctor, breaking silence with an effort
said Mr. Lorry, gently laying his hand on the Doctor's arm again, after a short silence on both sides
said the Doctor, recovering firmness
said Doctor Manette with the firmness of self-conviction
said Mr. Lorry, clearing his throat
said Doctor Manette, turning to him after an uneasy pause
with her hands on his breast, and the inquiring and attentive expression fixed upon him
said Charles Darnay, quite astounded
she urged, clinging nearer to him, laying her head upon his breast, and raising her eyes to his
said Mr. Lorry, pushing his brown wig back
assented Mr. Lorry, trying to persuade himself that his sweet temper was soured, and that he grumbled
cried Saint Antoine, after glaring round for a new means of death
said Defarge, in a determined voice
said Charles Darnay, rather hesitating
said Mr. Lorry, with cheerful confidence
he spoke here in his former thoughtful manner
Mr. Lorry glanced at the distant House, and lowered his voice
said Mr. Lorry, glancing at the House again
said Mr. Lorry, in reply to the House
said another -- this Monseigneur had been got out of Paris, legs uppermost and half suffocated, in a load of hay
said a third, eyeing the direction through his glass in passing
said Stryver, looking all round, and snapping his fingers
said Mr. Lorry at parting
cried a farrier, making at him in a furious manner through the press, hammer in hand
said the postmaster, shrugging his shoulders
repeated the same personage, without taking any heed of him whatever
said Defarge, in a low voice, as they went down the guardhouse steps and turned into Paris
said the chief, at length taking up his keys
said a gentleman of courtly appearance and address, coming forward
said the gentleman, following the chief gaoler with his eyes, who moved across the room
said Mr. Lorry, clasping his hands
Mr. Lorry whispered the words, glancing fearfully round at the locked room
said Mr. Lorry, joyfully relieved after reading this note aloud
said Mr. Lorry, striking in to explain
said Mr. Lorry, rather halting in his reassuring words, as the stony manner of all the three impressed itself upon him more and more
said Mr. Lorry, doing all he could to propitiate, by tone and manner
said Lucie, hurriedly taking the paper from her breast, but with her alarmed eyes on her questioner and not on it
thought Mr. Lorry, in his amiably shrewd way
for he stood before her when she lifted up the eyes she had momentarily darkened with her hand
said Lucie, yearning and weeping as she kissed her hand
they had left the spot
said Miss Pross, whose eyes were red with felicity
said Miss Pross, nodding her head emphatically
Miss Pross curtseyed at the name
it was the good creature's way to affect to make light of anything that was a great anxiety with them all, and to come at it in this chance manner
said Miss Pross, cheerfully repressing a sigh as she glanced at her darling's golden hair in the light of the fire
said her father, stopping in his story, and laying his hand on hers
said Lucie, excusing herself, with a pale face and in a faltering voice
said the Doctor, rising, and laying his hand upon her shoulder
pointing out the second who had entered
said the first, with his former reluctance
said he of Saint Antoine, with a strange look
said Solomon, stopping at the dark street corner
mourned Miss Pross, casting up her tear-fraught eyes
said the spy, casting a reproachful look at his sister
said the spy, in the meanest manner, as he turned to Mr. Lorry
said Carton, taking the answer on himself, and looking at his watch
said the spy, always striving to hook Mr. Lorry into the discussion
repeated Carton, in the same mechanical way
said Barsad, with a smile that gave his aquiline nose an extra inclination to one side
with a hurried hand he produced and opened it
Mr. Cruncher dwelt upon this as quite a liberal offer
retorted the contentious Mr. Cruncher
Mr. Cruncher could not be restrained from making rather an ostentatious parade of his liberality
said Mr. Lorry, angrily shaking a forefinger at him
pleaded the abashed Mr. Cruncher
cried Mr. Lorry, rather relenting, nevertheless
returned Mr. Crunches as if nothing were further from his thoughts or practice
said Mr. Cruncher, wiping his forehead with his arm, as an announcement that he had arrived at the peroration of his discourse
said Mr. Lorry, reverting to the theme
he said, looking about him
said he, glancing upward at the moon
said Defarge, looking down at his wife, who stood at the bottom of the steps on which he was raised, looking steadily up at him
he said, softly, to the latter
he added, with a smile and a sigh together
returned Mr. Lorry, drying his eyes
said Defarge, in a deprecatory manner
pursued madame, implacably, addressing her husband
said he, in a whimpering miserable way
he implored them, with a dreadful cry
he put his hand in his coat, and took another paper from it
he never mentioned Lucie's name
touching the back of the Doctor's chair
said Mr. Lorry, grasping his eager but so firm and steady hand
the apprehension came suddenly into his mind
Carton's hand was again watchfully and softly stealing down
the hand was at the prisoner's face
the Spy answered, with a timid snap of his fingers
returned Carton, stamping his foot
the voluble Vengeance protested in her shrill notes
said Madame Defarge, laying her hand with a slight frown on her lieutenant's lips
croaked Jacques Three, dubiously shaking his head, with his cruel fingers at his hungry mouth
observed Jacques Three, with a meditative enjoyment of his words
said Madame Defarge, coming out of her short abstraction
said Madame Defarge, placing it in her lieutenant's hands
said The Vengeance, calling after her, for she had already turned into the street
said Miss Pross, wildly crying
cried Miss Pross, still wildly crying
said Mr. Cruncher, who was all in a tremble, and who spoke with an ashy and solemn visage
said Miss Pross, striving to dry her eyes and compose herself
proceeded Mr. Cruncher, with a most alarming tendency to hold forth as from a pulpit
cried the distracted Miss Pross
proceeded Mr. Cruncher, with additional solemnity, additional slowness, and additional tendency to hold forth and hold out
said Mr. Cruncher, hesitating and shaking his head
said Madame Defarge, with a slight movement of her hand towards the fatal spot
said Miss Pross to herself
said Miss Pross, in smothered tones
said Mr. Cruncher, ruminating, with his mind much disturbed
said Miss Pross, seeing that he spoke to her
said Mr. Cruncher, glancing over his shoulder
say the seers to the enchanted, in the wise Arabian stories
cries The Vengeance, stamping her foot in the chair
</text>
