<text>
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it
thought Alice
So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so
VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself
when she thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time
it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on,
Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had
never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch
to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field
after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large
rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep
well.

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was
going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what
she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed; it was labelled 'ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as
she fell past it
thought Alice to herself
Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall NEVER come to an end
she said aloud
for, you see, Alice had learnt several
things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this
was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there
was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over
Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or
Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)

Presently she began again
she was rather glad
there WAS no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the
right word
and
she tried to curtsey as she spoke -- fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air! Do you think you could manage it
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again
Dinah was the cat
And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy
sort of way
and sometimes
for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question,
it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing
off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with
Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly
when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it.
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner
She was close behind it when she
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to
get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall;
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the passage
into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of
that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the
doorway
thought poor Alice
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately,
that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went
back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
time she found a little bottle on it
said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
label, with the words 'DRINK ME' beautifully printed on it in large
letters.

It was all very well to say
but the wise little Alice was
not going to do THAT in a hurry
she said
for she had read several nice
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they WOULD not remember
the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot
poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never
forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
it is
almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was NOT marked
so Alice ventured to taste
it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot
buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off
said Alice
And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
she felt a little nervous about this
said
Alice to herself
And she tried to fancy what the flame of a
candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing
sat down and cried
said Alice to herself,
rather sharply
She generally
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people
thought poor Alice
Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table:
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words
'EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants
said
Alice
She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself
holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on
in the common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake
cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English
for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
sight, they were getting so far off
thought Alice
And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it
she thought; 'and how funny it'll seem, sending
presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will look!

     ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
       HEARTHRUG,
         NEAR THE FENDER,
           (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again
said Alice
she might well say this
But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of
tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches
deep and reaching half down the hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great
hurry, muttering to himself as he came
Alice felt so
desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice
The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan,
and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking
And she began thinking
over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to
see if she could have been changed for any of them
she said
and she crossed her
hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it,
but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the
same as they used to do
said poor Alice, and her eyes
filled with tears again as she went on
cried Alice, with a sudden burst
of tears
As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves while
she was talking
she thought
She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now
about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found
out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped
it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether
said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence
and she ran with all speed back to the little door:
but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was
lying on the glass table as before
thought the poor child
As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!
she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she
had somehow fallen into the sea
she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in
her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go
to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the
sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row
of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon
made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she
was nine feet high
said Alice, as she swam about, trying
to find her way out
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way
off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
slipped in like herself
thought Alice
So she
began
Alice thought this must be the right
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
she remembered having seen in her brother's Latin Grammar
The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
but it said nothing
thought Alice
For, with all
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
anything had happened.) So she began again
which
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a
sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright
cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
the poor animal's feelings
cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice
said Alice in a soothing tone
Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the
pool
cried
Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she
felt certain it must be really offended
cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his
tail
said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
conversation
The Mouse did not
answer, so Alice went on eagerly
cried Alice in a sorrowful
tone
For the Mouse was swimming
away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in
the pool as it went.

So she called softly after it
When the
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its
face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
trembling voice
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo,
a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the
way, and the whole party swam to the shore
They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank -- the
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the
Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say
and this Alice would not allow without
knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its
age, there was no more to be said.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out
They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse
in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt
sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon
said the Mouse with an important air
said the Lory, with a shiver
said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely
said the Lory hastily
said the Mouse
said the Duck
the Mouse replied rather crossly
said the
Duck
The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on
it continued, turning
to Alice as it spoke
said Alice in a melancholy tone
said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet
said the Eaglet
And
the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds
tittered audibly
said the Dodo in an offended tone
said Alice; not that she wanted much to know,
but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak,
and no one else seemed inclined to say anything
said the Dodo
And, as
you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell
you how the Dodo managed it.)

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle
it said,) and then all the party were placed
along the course, here and there. There was no
but they began running when they liked, and left off when they
liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However,
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again,
the Dodo suddenly called out
and they all crowded
round it, panting, and asking
This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought,
and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead
(the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures
of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said
quite a chorus of voices asked
said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger;
and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused
way
Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one
a-piece all round
said the Mouse
the Dodo replied very gravely
he went on, turning to Alice
said Alice sadly
said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly
presented the thimble, saying
and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she
could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and
confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more
said Alice
she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
would be offended again
said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and
sighing
said Alice, looking down with wonder at
the Mouse's tail
And she kept on puzzling
about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was
something like this
said the Mouse to Alice severely
said Alice very humbly
cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily
said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
anxiously about her
said the Mouse, getting up and walking
away
pleaded poor Alice
The Mouse only growled in reply
Alice called after it; and the
others all joined in chorus
but the Mouse only shook
its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker
sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite
out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her
daughter
said the young Crab, a little
snappishly
said Alice aloud, addressing
nobody in particular
said the
Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet
This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
carefully, remarking
and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to
its children
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone
she said to herself in a melancholy
tone
And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard
a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up
eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming
back to finish his story
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
it muttering to itself
Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves,
and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen -- everything seemed to have changed since her swim in
the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door,
had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone
And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once
in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it
had made
she said to herself as she ran
As she said this, she
came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass
plate with the name 'W. RABBIT' engraved upon it. She went in without
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the
real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the
fan and gloves
Alice said to herself
And she
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen
Alice went on
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs
of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves,
and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little
bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time
with the words
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it
to her lips
she said
to herself
It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had
drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling,
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
down the bottle, saying to herself
Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with
one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head.
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself
Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room
again, no wonder she felt unhappy
thought poor Alice
she added in a sorrowful
tone
thought Alice
she answered herself
And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making
quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard
a voice outside, and stopped to listen
said the voice
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large
as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as
the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself
THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her
hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice -- the Rabbit's
And
then a voice she had never heard before
said the Rabbit angrily
Sounds of more broken glass
He pronounced it
There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as
and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
TWO little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass
thought Alice
She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices
all talking together: she made out the words
a loud crash
said Alice to
herself
She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited
till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself
she gave one sharp kick, and waited to
see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of
then the Rabbit's voice along
then
silence, and then another confusion of voices
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice
thought
Alice
said the others
said the Rabbit's voice; and Alice called
out as loud as she could
There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself
After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
Alice heard the Rabbit say
thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window, and some of them hit her in the face
she said to herself, and shouted out
which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
head
she thought
So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through
the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was
in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood
said Alice to herself, as she wandered
about in the wood
It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her
said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but
she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be
hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of
all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and
till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance
said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
leaves
The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on the top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar,
that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long
hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else
The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence:
at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed
her in a languid, sleepy voice
said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly
said the Caterpillar sternly
said Alice
said the Caterpillar
Alice replied very politely
said the Caterpillar
said Alice
said the Caterpillar
said Alice
said the Caterpillar contemptuously
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such VERY
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely
said the Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a VERY unpleasant
state of mind, she turned away
the Caterpillar called after her
This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again
said the Caterpillar
said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
could
said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some
minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its
arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said
said Alice
said the Caterpillar
Alice replied in a very melancholy voice
said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began
the young man said
Father William replied to his son
said the youth
said the sage, as he shook his grey locks
said the youth
said his father
said the youth
Said his father
said the Caterpillar
said Alice, timidly
said the Caterpillar decidedly, and
there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak
it asked
Alice hastily replied
said the Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life
before, and she felt that she was losing her temper
said the Caterpillar
said Alice
said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing
itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high
pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And
she thought of herself
said the Caterpillar; and it put the
hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In
a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth
and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the
mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went
thought Alice to herself
said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying
to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly
round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she
stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit
of the edge with each hand
she said to herself, and nibbled a little of
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent
blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot!

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt
that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she
set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed
so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the
lefthand bit
said Alice in a tone of delight, which
changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders
were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was
an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a
sea of green leaves that lay far below her
said Alice
She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow,
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she
tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her
neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had
just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going
to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops
of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made
her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and
was beating her violently with its wings
screamed the Pigeon
said Alice indignantly
repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone,
and added with a kind of sob
said Alice
the Pigeon went on, without attending to her
Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in
saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished
said the Pigeon
said Alice, who was beginning to
see its meaning
continued the
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek
said Alice
said the Pigeon
said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered
the number of changes she had gone through that day
said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt
said Alice, who was a very truthful
child
said the Pigeon
This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a
minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding
said Alice hastily
said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled
down again into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as well as
she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she
remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and
she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it
felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a few minutes,
and began talking to herself, as usual
As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open
place, with a little house in it about four feet high
thought Alice
So she began nibbling at the
righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she
had brought herself down to nine inches high
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the
wood --(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery:
otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a
fish)-- and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened
by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
frog; and both footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all
over their heads. She felt very curious to know what it was all about,
and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter,
nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other,
saying, in a solemn tone
The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone,
only changing the order of the words a little
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.

Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into the
wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped out the
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground near the
door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked
said the Footman
And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise
going on within -- a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and then
a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces
said Alice
the Footman went on
without attending to her
He was looking up into the sky all the time he was speaking, and this
Alice thought decidedly uncivil
she
said to herself
she
repeated, aloud
the Footman remarked
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came
skimming out, straight at the Footman's head: it just grazed his nose,
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind him
the Footman continued in the same tone, exactly
as if nothing had happened
asked Alice again, in a louder tone
said the Footman
It was, no doubt: only Alice did not like to be told so
she muttered to herself
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his
remark, with variations
he said
said Alice
said the Footman, and began whistling
said Alice desperately
And she opened the door and went in.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in
the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring
a large cauldron which seemed to be full of soup
Alice said to herself,
as well as she could for sneezing.

There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess
sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling
alternately without a moment's pause. The only things in the kitchen
that did not sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on
the hearth and grinning from ear to ear
said Alice, a little timidly, for she was
not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to speak first
said the Duchess
She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite
jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby,
and not to her, so she took courage, and went on again
said the Duchess
Alice said very politely, feeling quite
pleased to have got into a conversation
said the Duchess
Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would
be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While she
was trying to fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the
fire, and at once set to work throwing everything within her reach at
the Duchess and the baby -- the fire-irons came first; then followed a
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess took no notice of
them even when they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already,
that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not
cried Alice, jumping up and down in
an agony of terror
as an unusually
large saucepan flew close by it, and very nearly carried it off
the Duchess said in a hoarse
growl
said Alice, who felt very glad to get
an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge
said the Duchess
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to take
the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to
be listening, so she went on again
said the Duchess
And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of
lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of
every line
CHORUS.

 (In which the cook and the baby joined
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing
the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so,
that Alice could hardly hear the words
CHORUS
the Duchess said to Alice,
flinging the baby at her as she spoke
and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw
a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped
little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions
thought Alice. The poor little thing was snorting
like a steam-engine when she caught it, and kept doubling itself up and
straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute
or two, it was as much as she could do to hold it.

As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to
twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right
ear and left foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried
it out into the open air
thought Alice
She said the last words out loud, and the
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time
said Alice
The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to
see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had
a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its
eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not
like the look of the thing at all
she thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any
tears.

No, there were no tears
said Alice, seriously
The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible
to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself
when it grunted again, so violently,
that she looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could
be NO mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and she
felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further.

So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see
it trot away quietly into the wood
she said
to herself
And she began thinking over other
children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying
to herself
when she
was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a
tree a few yards off.

The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she
thought: still it had VERY long claws and a great many teeth, so she
felt that it ought to be treated with respect
she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider
thought Alice, and she went on
said the Cat
said Alice
said the Cat
Alice added as an explanation
said the Cat
Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another question
the Cat said, waving its right paw round
waving the other paw
Alice remarked
said the Cat
said Alice
said the Cat
Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
said the Cat
said Alice
the Cat went on
said Alice
said the Cat
said Alice
said the Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again
said the Cat
Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
in a natural way
said the Cat, and vanished again.

Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in
which the March Hare was said to live
she
said to herself
As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat
again, sitting on a branch of a tree
said the Cat
replied Alice
said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which
remained some time after the rest of it had gone
thought Alice
She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house
of the March Hare: she thought it must be the right house, because the
chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It
was so large a house, that she did not like to go nearer till she had
nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to
about two feet high: even then she walked up towards it rather timidly,
saying to herself
There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting
between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as a
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head
thought Alice
The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded together at
one corner of it
they cried out when they saw Alice
coming
said Alice indignantly, and she sat
down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table
the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but tea
she remarked
said the March Hare
said Alice angrily
said
the March Hare
said Alice
said the Hatter. He had been looking at Alice
for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first speech
Alice said with some
severity
The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all he SAID
was
thought Alice
she added aloud
said the
March Hare
said Alice
the March Hare went on
Alice hastily replied
said the Hatter
added the March Hare
added the Dormouse, who seemed to be
talking in his sleep
said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice
thought over all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks,
which wasn't much.

The Hatter was the first to break the silence
he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then,
and holding it to his ear.

Alice considered a little, and then said
sighed the Hatter
he added looking angrily at the March Hare
the March Hare meekly replied
the Hatter grumbled
The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily: then he dipped
it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again: but he could think of
nothing better to say than his first remark
Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity
she remarked
muttered the Hatter
Alice replied very readily
said the Hatter.

Alice felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter's remark seemed to have no
sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English
she said, as politely as she could
said the Hatter, and he poured a little
hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its
eyes
the Hatter said, turning to Alice
again
Alice replied
said the Hatter
said the March Hare.

Alice sighed wearily
she said
said the Hatter
said Alice
the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously
Alice cautiously replied
said the Hatter
the March Hare said to itself in a whisper
said Alice thoughtfully
said the Hatter
Alice asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully
he replied
pointing
with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) '-- it was at the great concert
given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

     "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
     How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps
said Alice
the Hatter continued
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
and went on so long that they had to pinch
it to make it stop
said the Hatter
exclaimed Alice
the Hatter went on in a mournful tone
A bright idea came into Alice's head
she asked
said the Hatter with a sigh
said Alice
said the Hatter
Alice ventured
to ask
the March Hare interrupted, yawning
said Alice, rather alarmed at the
proposal
they both cried
And
they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes
he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice
said the March Hare
pleaded Alice
added the Hatter
the Dormouse began
in a great hurry
said Alice, who always took a great interest in
questions of eating and drinking
said the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or
two
Alice gently remarked
said the Dormouse
Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways of
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went on
the March Hare said to Alice, very earnestly
Alice replied in an offended tone
said the Hatter
said Alice
the Hatter asked triumphantly.

Alice did not quite know what to say to this: so she helped herself
to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and
repeated her question
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then
said
Alice was beginning very angrily, but the
Hatter and the March Hare went
and the Dormouse sulkily
remarked
Alice said very humbly
said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to
go on
said Alice, quite forgetting her promise
said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time
interrupted the Hatter
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare
moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather unwillingly took
the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any
advantage from the change: and Alice was a good deal worse off than
before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.

Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began very
cautiously
said the Hatter
Alice said to the Dormouse, not choosing to
notice this last remark.

'Of course they were', said the Dormouse
This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse go on for
some time without interrupting it
the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing
its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy
said Alice
said the March Hare.

Alice was silent.

The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into
a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with
a little shriek, and went on
said Alice, very much confused
said the Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear: she got up in
great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and
neither of the others took the least notice of her going, though she
looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after her:
the last time she saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into
the teapot
said Alice as she picked her
way through the wood
Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a door
leading right into it
she thought
And in
she went.

Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the little
glass table
she said to herself,
and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that
led into the garden. Then she went to work nibbling at the mushroom (she
had kept a piece of it in her pocket) till she was about a foot high:
then she walked down the little passage: and THEN -- she found herself at
last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she went
nearer to watch them, and just as she came up to them she heard one of
them say
said Five, in a sulky tone
On which Seven looked up and said
said Five
said the one who had spoken first
said Seven
said Five
Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun
when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as she stood watching
them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and
all of them bowed low
said Alice, a little timidly
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low
voice
At this
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called
out
and the three gardeners instantly threw
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps,
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like
the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the
corners: next the ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with
diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these came
the royal children; there were ten of them, and the little dears came
jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples: they were all ornamented
with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among
them Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried
nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King's
crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand
procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face
like the three gardeners, but she could not remember ever having heard
of such a rule at processions
thought she
So she stood still where she was,
and waited.

When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and looked
at her, and the Queen said severely
She said it to the
Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply
said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to
Alice, she went on
said Alice very politely;
but she added, to herself
said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who
were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as they were lying on their
faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the
pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or
courtiers, or three of her own children
said Alice, surprised at her own courage
The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
moment like a wild beast, screamed
said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was
silent.

The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot
said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen,
the royal children, and everybody else
screamed the Queen
And then,
turning to the rose-tree, she went on
said Two, in a very humble tone, going
down on one knee as he spoke
said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses
and the procession moved on, three of the
soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran
to Alice for protection
said Alice, and she put them into a large
flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the
others
shouted the Queen
the soldiers shouted
in reply
shouted the Queen
The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was
evidently meant for her
shouted Alice
roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession,
wondering very much what would happen next
said a timid voice at her side. She was
walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into her face
said Alice
said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered
said Alice
the Rabbit asked
said Alice
the Rabbit began. Alice gave a little
scream of laughter
the Rabbit whispered in a frightened
tone
shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each
other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game
began. Alice thought she had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in
her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs,
the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves
up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo:
she succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under
her arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as she had got
its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a
blow with its head, it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face,
with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out
laughing: and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin
again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was
generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the
hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up
and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice soon came to the
conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed.

The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling
all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short
time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and
shouting
or
about once in a
minute.

Alice began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any
dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might happen any minute
thought she
She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she
could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance
in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it
a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself
said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth
enough for it to speak with.

Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded
she thought
In another minute the whole head appeared, and then Alice put
down her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad
she had someone to listen to her. The Cat seemed to think that there was
enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared
Alice began, in rather a
complaining tone
said the Cat in a low voice
said Alice
Just then she noticed
that the Queen was close behind her, listening: so she went on
The Queen smiled and passed on
said the King, going up to Alice, and looking
at the Cat's head with great curiosity
said Alice
said the King
the Cat remarked
said the King
He got behind Alice as he spoke
said Alice
said the King very decidedly, and he called
the Queen, who was passing at the moment
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small
she said, without even looking round
said the King eagerly, and he
hurried off.

Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game was going
on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance, screaming with
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not like the look
of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that she never knew
whether it was her turn or not. So she went in search of her hedgehog.

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the
other: the only difficulty was, that her flamingo was gone across to the
other side of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless
sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight
was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight
thought Alice
So she tucked it away under her arm, that it might not
escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with her
friend.

When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to find quite a
large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between
the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once,
while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle
the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they
all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly
what they said.

The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a head unless
there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
thing before, and he wasn't going to begin at HIS time of life.

The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about it in less
than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round. (It was this last
remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.)

Alice could think of nothing else to say but
the Queen said to the executioner
And the executioner went off like an arrow.

 The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and down
looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's, and
they walked off together.

Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought
to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so
savage when they met in the kitchen
she said to herself, (not in a very hopeful tone
though
she went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of
rule
She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little
startled when she heard her voice close to her ear
Alice ventured to remark
said the Duchess
And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as
she spoke.

Alice did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the
Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the
right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder, and it was an
uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not like to be rude, so she
bore it as well as she could
she said, by way of keeping up
the conversation a little
said the Duchess: 'and the moral of that is --"Oh, 'tis love
Alice whispered
said the Duchess, digging her
sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added
Alice thought to herself
the Duchess said after a pause
Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to
have the experiment tried
said the Duchess
Alice remarked
said the Duchess
said Alice
said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
everything that Alice said
exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this last remark
said the Duchess
Alice said very politely
the Duchess replied, in
a pleased tone
said
Alice
said the Duchess
thought Alice
But she did not venture to say it out
loud
the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp
little chin
said Alice sharply, for she was beginning to
feel a little worried
said the Duchess
But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died away, even
in the middle of her favourite word
and the arm that was linked
into hers began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen
in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm
the Duchess began in a low, weak voice
shouted the Queen, stamping on the
ground as she spoke
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment
the Queen said to Alice; and Alice was
too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the
croquet-ground.

The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence, and were
resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried
back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment's delay would
cost them their lives.

All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with
the other players, and shouting
or
Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers,
who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by
the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the
players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and
under sentence of execution.

Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to Alice
said Alice
said the Queen
said Alice
said the Queen
As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low voice,
to the company generally
she said to herself, for she had felt quite unhappy at the
number of executions the Queen had ordered.

They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun.
(IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture
said the Queen
and she walked off, leaving Alice alone with
the Gryphon. Alice did not quite like the look of the creature, but on
the whole she thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go
after that savage Queen: so she waited.

The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till
she was out of sight: then it chuckled
said the Gryphon,
half to itself, half to Alice
said Alice
said the Gryphon
thought Alice, as she went slowly
after it
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance,
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came
nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. She
pitied him deeply
she asked the Gryphon, and the
Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes
full of tears, but said nothing
said the Gryphon
said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. Alice thought to
herself
But
she waited patiently
said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an
occasional exclamation of
from the Gryphon, and the constant
heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle. Alice was very nearly getting up and
saying
but she could
not help thinking there MUST be more to come, so she sat still and said
nothing
the Mock Turtle went on at last, more calmly,
though still sobbing a little now and then
Alice asked
said the Mock Turtle
angrily
added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked at poor
Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said
to the Mock Turtle
and he went on in these words
interrupted Alice
said the Mock Turtle
added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again.
The Mock Turtle went on
said Alice
asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously
said Alice
said the Mock Turtle
said Alice indignantly
said the Mock Turtle in
a tone of great relief
said Alice
said the Mock Turtle with a sigh
inquired Alice
the Mock Turtle
replied
Alice ventured to say
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise
it exclaimed
said Alice doubtfully
the Gryphon went on
Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so she
turned to the Mock Turtle, and said
the Mock Turtle replied, counting off
the subjects on his flappers
said Alice
the Mock Turtle said
said the Gryphon
the Mock Turtle said with a sigh
said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and both
creatures hid their faces in their paws
said Alice, in a hurry to
change the subject
said the Mock Turtle
exclaimed Alice
the Gryphon remarked
This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a little
before she made her next remark
said the Mock Turtle
Alice went on eagerly
the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided
tone
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
two sobs choked his voice
said the Gryphon: and it set to work shaking him and punching him in
the back. At last the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and, with tears
running down his cheeks, he went on again
said
Alice
Alice began to say
but checked herself hastily, and
said 'No, never
said Alice
said the Gryphon
cried the Mock Turtle
interrupted the Gryphon
cried the Gryphon
the Mock Turtle said
continued the Gryphon
the Mock Turtle went on
shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air
screamed the Gryphon
cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly
about
yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice
said the Mock
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been
jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly
and quietly, and looked at Alice
said Alice timidly
said the Mock Turtle
said Alice
said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon
said the Gryphon
So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and
then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their
forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly
and sadly:--

 '"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
 "There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my tail.

 See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
 They are waiting on the shingle -- will you come and join the dance?

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance
But the snail replied
and gave a look askance --
 Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.

 Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
 Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

 '"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
 "There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
 The further off from England the nearer is to France --
 Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the dance?
 Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the dance
said Alice, feeling
very glad that it was over at last
said the Mock Turtle
said Alice
she checked herself
hastily
said the Mock Turtle
Alice replied thoughtfully
said the Mock Turtle
here the Mock Turtle yawned and shut his eyes
he said to the Gryphon
said the Gryphon
said Alice
said the Gryphon
said Alice
the Gryphon replied very solemnly.

Alice was thoroughly puzzled
she repeated
in a wondering tone
said the Gryphon
Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she gave her
answer
the Gryphon went on in a deep voice
Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity
the Gryphon replied rather impatiently
said Alice, whose thoughts were still running
on the song
the Mock Turtle said
said Alice in a tone of great surprise
said the Mock Turtle
said Alice
the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. And
the Gryphon added
said
Alice a little timidly
said the Mock Turtle
said the Gryphon in an impatient tone
So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first
saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it just at first,
the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened
their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she gained courage as she went
on. Her listeners were perfectly quiet till she got to the part about
her repeating
to the Caterpillar, and the
words all coming different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath,
and said
said the Gryphon
the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully
He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of
authority over Alice.

'Stand up and repeat
said the
Gryphon
thought Alice
However, she
got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster
Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came
very queer indeed
later editions continued as follows
  When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
  And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
  But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
  His voice has a timid and tremulous sound
said the
Gryphon
said the Mock Turtle
Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her hands,
wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again
said the Mock Turtle
said the Gryphon hastily
the Mock Turtle persisted
Alice said; but was dreadfully
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject
the Gryphon repeated impatiently
Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would all come
wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice
later editions continued as follows
  The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
  While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
  When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
  Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
  While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
  And concluded the banquet
the Mock Turtle
interrupted
said the Gryphon: and Alice was
only too glad to do so
the Gryphon went
on
Alice
replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone
The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked
with sobs, to sing this
cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun
to repeat it, when a cry of
was heard in the
distance
cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand, it hurried
off, without waiting for the end of the song
Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon only
answered
and ran the faster, while more and more faintly
came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words
The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they
arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them -- all sorts of little
birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was
standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard
him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand,
and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court
was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good,
that it made Alice quite hungry to look at them
she thought
But there
seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read
about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew
the name of nearly everything there
she said to
herself
The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the
wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did
not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming
thought Alice
she was obliged to say
you see, because some of them were
animals, and some were birds
She said
this last word two or three times over to herself, being rather proud of
it: for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her
age knew the meaning of it at all. However
would have done
just as well.

The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates
Alice whispered to the Gryphon
the Gryphon whispered in reply
Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped
hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out
and the
King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who
was talking.

Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their shoulders,
that all the jurors were writing down
on their slates,
and she could even make out that one of them didn't know how to spell
and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him
thought Alice.

One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, Alice
could not stand, and she went round the court and got behind him, and
very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly
that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out
at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was
obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was
of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate
said the King.

On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then
unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows
the King said to the jury
the Rabbit hastily interrupted
said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three
blasts on the trumpet, and called out
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one
hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other
he began
said the King
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse
he said
said the March Hare
added the Dormouse
the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced the answer to shillings and pence
the King said to the Hatter
said the Hatter
the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made a
memorandum of the fact
the Hatter added as an explanation
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter,
who turned pale and fidgeted
said the King
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in
his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the
bread-and-butter.

Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
her a good deal until she made out what it was: she was beginning to
grow larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave
the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as
long as there was room for her
said the Dormouse, who was sitting
next to her
said Alice very meekly
said the Dormouse
said Alice more boldly
said the Dormouse
And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the
other side of the court.

All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
of the court
on
which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off
the King repeated angrily
the Hatter began, in a trembling voice
said the King
the Hatter replied
said the King sharply
the Hatter went on
the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry
said the Hatter
said the March Hare
said the King
the Hatter went on, looking
anxiously round to see if he would deny it too: but the Dormouse denied
nothing, being fast asleep
continued the Hatter
one of the jury asked
said the Hatter
remarked the King
The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and went
down on one knee
he began
said the King.

Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by
the officers of the court. (As that is rather a hard word, I will just
explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which tied
up at the mouth with strings: into this they slipped the guinea-pig,
head first, and then sat upon it
thought Alice
continued the
King
said the Hatter
the King replied.

Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed
thought Alice
said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the
Queen, who was reading the list of singers
said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court,
without even waiting to put his shoes on
the Queen added to one of the
officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get
to the door
said the King.

The next witness was the Duchess's cook. She carried the pepper-box in
her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the
court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once
said the King
said the cook.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice
the King said, with a melancholy air, and,
after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till his eyes were
nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice
said the cook
said a sleepy voice behind her
the Queen shrieked out
For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse
turned out, and, by the time they had settled down again, the cook had
disappeared
said the King, with an air of great relief
And he added in an undertone to the Queen
Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very
curious to see what the next witness would be like
she said to herself. Imagine her surprise, when
the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the
name
cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how
large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she jumped up in such
a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt,
upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there
they lay sprawling about, reminding her very much of a globe of goldfish
she had accidentally upset the week before
she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay, and
began picking them up again as quickly as she could, for the accident of
the goldfish kept running in her head, and she had a vague sort of idea
that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or
they would die
said the King in a very grave voice
he repeated with
great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as he said do.

Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put
the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its
tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. She soon got
it out again, and put it right
she said
to herself
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being
upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to
them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the
accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do
anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the
court
the King said to Alice
said Alice
persisted the King
said Alice
the King said, turning to the jury. They were
just beginning to write this down on their slates, when the White Rabbit
interrupted
he said in a
very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke
the King hastily said, and went on
to himself in an undertone
as if he were trying
which word sounded best.

Some of the jury wrote it down
and some
Alice could see this, as she was near enough to look over their slates
she thought to herself.

At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in
his note-book, cackled out
and read out from his book
Everybody looked at Alice
said Alice
said the King
added the Queen
said Alice
said the King
said Alice.

The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily
he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice
said the White
Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry
said the Queen
said the White Rabbit
said the King
said one of the jurymen
said the White Rabbit
He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and
added
asked another of the jurymen
said the White Rabbit
The jury all looked puzzled
said the King. (The jury
all brightened up again
said the Knave
said the King
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really
clever thing the King had said that day
said the Queen
said Alice
said the King.

The White Rabbit put on his spectacles
he asked
the King said gravely
These were the verses the White Rabbit read
said the
King, rubbing his hands
said Alice, (she had grown so large
in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit afraid of interrupting
him
The jury all wrote down on their slates
but none of them attempted to explain the paper
said the King
he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them
with one eye
he added, turning to the
Knave.

The Knave shook his head sadly
he said. (Which he
certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard
said the King, and he went on muttering over
the verses to himself
said Alice
said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts
on the table
he said to the
Queen
said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard
as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily
began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as
it lasted
said the King, looking round the court
with a smile. There was a dead silence
the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed
the King said, for about the
twentieth time that day
said the Queen
said Alice loudly
said the Queen, turning purple
said Alice
the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody
moved
said Alice, (she had grown to her full size by this
time
At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon
her: she gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and
tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on the bank, with her
head in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing away some dead
leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon her face
said her sister
said Alice, and she told her
sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures
of hers that you have just been reading about; and when she had
finished, her sister kissed her, and said
So
Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she ran, as well she might,
what a wonderful dream it had been.

But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her head on her
hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her
wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and
this was her dream:--

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny
hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking
up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice, and see that
queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that
WOULD always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened, or seemed to
listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures
of her little sister's dream.

The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by -- the
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool -- she
could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends
shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution -- once more the pig-baby
was sneezing on the Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed
around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the
Lizard's slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock
Turtle.

So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and all
would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustling in the
wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds -- the rattling
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen's shrill
cries to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby, the
shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (she
knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing
of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of hers
would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would
keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and
make THEIR eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even
with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with
all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

              THE END
</text>
