<text>
It had been a close and sultry day -- one of the hottest of the
dog-days -- even out in the open country, where the dusky green leaves had
never stirred upon their stems since the sunrise, and where the birds had
found themselves too languid for any songs beyond a faint chirp now and
then. All day long the sun had shone down steadily upon the streets of
London, with a fierce glare and glowing heat, until the barefooted
children had felt the dusty pavement burn under their tread almost as
painfully as the icy pavement had frozen their naked feet in the winter.
In the parks, and in every open space, especially about the cool splash
of the fountains at Charing Cross, the people, who had escaped from the
crowded and unventilated back streets, basked in the sunshine, or sought
every corner where a shadow could be found. But in the alleys and slums
the air was heavy with heat and dust, and thick vapours floated up and
down, charged with sickening smells from the refuse of fish and
vegetables decaying in the gutters. Overhead the small, straight strip of
sky was almost white, and the light, as it fell, seemed to quiver with
the burden of its own burning heat.

Out of one of the smaller thoroughfares lying between Holborn and the
Strand, there opens a narrow alley, not more than six or seven feet
across, with high buildings on each side. In the most part the ground
floors consist of small shops; for the alley is not a blind one, but
leads from the thoroughfare to another street, and forms, indeed, a short
cut to it, pretty often used. These shops are not of any size or
importance -- a greengrocer's, with a somewhat scanty choice of vegetables
and fruit, a broker's, displaying queer odds and ends of household goods,
two or three others, and at the end farthest from the chief thoroughfare,
but nearest to the quiet and respectable street beyond, a very
modest-looking little shop-window, containing a few newspapers, some
rather yellow packets of stationery, and two or three books of ballads.
Above the door was painted, in very small, dingy letters, the words
The shop was even smaller, in proportion, than its window. After two
customers had entered -- if such an event could ever come to pass -- it would
have been almost impossible to find room for a third. Along the end ran a
little counter, with a falling flap by which admission could be gained to
the living-room lying behind the shop. This evening the flap was down -- a
certain sign that James Oliver, the news agent, had some guest within,
for otherwise there would have been no occasion to lessen the scanty size
of the counter. The room beyond was dark, very dark indeed, for the time
of day; for, though the evening was coming on, and the sun was hastening
to go down at last, it had not yet ceased to shine brilliantly upon the
great city. But inside James Oliver's house the gas was already lighted
in a little steady flame, which never flickered in the still, hot air,
though both door and window were wide open. For there was a window,
though it was easy to overlook it, opening into a passage four feet wide,
which led darkly up into a still closer and hotter court, lying in the
very core of the maze of streets. As the houses were four stories high,
it is easy to understand that very little sunlight could penetrate to
Oliver's room behind his shop, and that even at noonday it was twilight
there. This room was of a better size altogether than a stranger might
have supposed, having two or three queer little nooks and recesses
borrowed from the space belonging to the adjoining house; for the
buildings were old, and had probably been one large dwelling in former
times. It was plainly the only apartment the owner had; and all its
arrangements were those of a man living alone, for there was something
almost desolate about the look of the scanty furniture, though it was
clean and whole. There had been a fire, but it had died out, and the
coals were black in the grate, while the kettle still sat upon the top
bar with a melancholy expression of neglect about it.

James Oliver himself had placed his chair near to the open door, where he
could keep his eye upon the shop -- a needless precaution, as at this hour
no customers ever turned into it. He was an old man, and seemed very old
and infirm by the dim light. He was thin and spare, with that peculiar
spareness which results from the habit of always eating less than one
can. His teeth, which had never had too much to do, had gone some years
ago, and his cheeks fell in rather deeply. A fine network of wrinkles
puckered about the corners of his eyes and mouth. He stooped a good deal,
and moved about with the slowness and deliberation of age. Yet his face
was very pleasant -- a cheery, gentle, placid face, lighted up with a smile
now and then, but with sufficient rareness to make it the more welcome
and the more noticed when it came.

Old Oliver had a visitor this hot evening, a neat, small, dapper woman,
with a little likeness to himself, who had been putting his room to
rights, and looking to the repairs needed by his linen. She was just
replacing her needle, cotton, and buttons in an old-fashioned housewife,
which she always carried in her pocket, and was then going to put on her
black silk bonnet and coloured shawl, before bidding him goodbye
said Oliver, after drawing a long and toilsome breath
said the old woman, shaking her head
slowly
replied old Oliver, in a
dreamy voice
said
Charlotte, sharply
answered the old man, with a meek sigh
They did not speak again until Charlotte had given a final shake to the
bed in the corner, upon which her bonnet and shawl had been lying. She
put them on neatly and primly; and when she was ready to go she spoke
again in a constrained and mysterious manner
she said
answered old Oliver, sadly
said his sister
he went on, speaking
slowly
said Charlotte
he answered, shaking his head sorrowfully
cried the old woman, indignantly
answered Oliver
He went with her to the door, and stayed to watch her along the quiet
alley, till she turned into the street. Then, with a last nod to the back
of her bonnet, as she passed out of his sight, he returned slowly into
his dark shop, put up the flap of the counter, and retreated to the
darker room within. Hot as it was, he fancied it was growing a little
chilly with the coming of the night, and he drew on his old coat, and
threw a handkerchief over his white head, and then sat down in the dusk,
looking out into his shop and the alley beyond it. He must have fallen
into a doze after a while, being overcome with the heat, and lulled by
the constant hum of the streets, which reached his dull ear in a softened
murmur; for at length he started up almost in a fright, and found that
complete darkness had fallen upon him suddenly, as it seemed to him. A
church clock was striking nine, and his shop was not closed yet. He went
out hurriedly to put the shutters up
In the shop it was not yet so dark but that old Oliver could see his way
out with the shutters, which during the day occupied a place behind the
door. He lifted the flap of the counter, and was about to go on with his
usual business, when a small voice, trembling a little, and speaking from
the floor at his very feet, caused him to pause suddenly
said the voice.

Oliver stooped down to bring his eyes nearer to the ground, until he
could make out the indistinct outline of the figure of a child, seated on
his shop floor, and closely hugging a dog in her arms. Her face looked
small to him; it was pale, as if she had been crying quietly, and though
he could not see them, a large tear stood on each of her cheeks
he asked, almost timidly
answered the child
inquired old Oliver
she said
She introduced the dog by pushing its nose into his hand, and Beppo
complacently wagged his tail and licked the old man's withered fingers
asked Oliver
she said, with a stifled sob
he answered, soothingly
He took her little hand in his own; such a little hand it felt, that he
could not help tightening his fingers fondly over it; and then they stood
for a few minutes on the door-sill, while old Oliver looked anxiously up
and down the alley. At the greengrocer's next door there flared a bright
jet of gas, and the light shone well into the deepening darkness. But
there was no woman in sight, and the only person about was a ragged boy,
barefoot and bareheaded with no clothing but a torn pair of trousers,
very jagged about the ankles, and a jacket through which his thin
shoulders displayed themselves. He was lolling in the lowest window-sill
of the house opposite, and watched Oliver and the little girl looking
about them with sundry signs of interest and amusement
he called across to them after a while
answered Oliver
he said, with a laugh
asked Oliver, anxiously
he answered
said the old man, looking wistfully down
the alley
THE LITTLE STRANGER.&rsqb;

But there was no symptom of anybody coming to claim the little girl, who
stood very quietly at his side, one hand holding the dog fast by his ear,
and the other still lying in Oliver's grasp. The boy hopped on one foot
across the narrow alley, and looked up with bright, eager eyes into the
old man's face
he said, earnestly
asked Oliver, clasping the little hand tighter
answered the boy
inquired Oliver, still lingering on the
threshold, and looking up and down with his dim eyes
replied Tony
repeated the old man, absently
said Tony, more earnestly than before
He spoke in a beseeching tone, and old Oliver looked down upon him
through his spectacles, with a closer survey than he had given to him
before. The boy's face was pale and meagre, with an unboyish sharpness
about it, though he did not seem more than nine or ten years old. His
glittering eyes were filled with tears, and his colourless lips quivered.
He wiped away the tears roughly upon the ragged sleeve of his jacket
said Tony
answered Oliver
He stooped down to bring his face nearer to the child's, and she raised
her hand to it, and stroked his cheek with her warm, soft fingers
she said, in a clear, shrill, little
voice, which penetrated easily through old Oliver's deafened hearing
he
answered
said the child,
plaintively, and holding harder by Beppo's ear
cried Tony, eagerly
The shutters were put up briskly, and then Tony took a long, farewell
gaze of the old man and the little child, but he could not offer to touch
either of them. He glanced at his hands, and Oliver did the same; but
they both shook their heads
he said, nodding
resolutely
Old Oliver went in, leaving his door ajar, and his gas lit, as he had
said. He fed the hungry child with bread and butter, and used up his
half-pennyworth of milk, which he bought for himself every evening. Then
he lifted her on to his knee, with Beppo in her arms, and sat for a long
while waiting. The little head nodded, and Dolly sat up, unsteadily
striving hard to keep awake; but at last she let Beppo drop to the floor,
while she herself fell upon the old man's breast, and lay there without
moving. It chimed eleven o'clock at last, and Oliver knew it was of no
use to watch any longer.

He managed to undress his little charge with gentle, though trembling
hands, and then he laid her down on his bed, putting his only pillow
against the wall to make a soft nest for the tender and sleepy child. She
roused herself for a minute, and stared about her, gazing steadily, with
large, tearful eyes, into his face. Then as he sat down on the bedstead
beside her, to comfort her as well as he could, she lifted herself up,
and knelt down, with her folded hands laid against his shoulder
she lisped
he asked
murmured the drowsy voice, as Dolly closed her eyes
again, and fell off into a deep sleep the next moment
It was a very strange event which had befallen old Oliver. He went back
to his own chair, where he smoked his Broseley pipe every night, and sank
down in it, rubbing his legs softly; for it was a long time since he had
nursed any child, and even Dolly's small weight was a burden to him. Her
tiny clothes were scattered up and down, and there was no one beside
himself to gather them together, and fold them straight. In shaking out
her frock a letter fell from it, and Oliver picked it up wondering
whoever it could be for. It was directed to himself
and he broke the seal with eager expectation. The contents
were these, written in a handwriting which he knew at first sight to be
his daughter's
The tears rolled fast down old Oliver's cheeks as he read this letter
through twice, speaking the words half aloud to himself. Why! this was
his own little grandchild, then -- his very own! And no doubt Susan had
christened her Dorothy, after her own mother, his dear wife, who had died
so many years ago. Dolly was the short for Dorothy, and in early times he
had often called his wife by that name. He had turned his gas off and
lighted a candle, and now he took it up and went to the bedside to look
at his new treasure. The tiny face lying upon his pillow was rosy with
sleep, and the fair curly hair was tossed about in pretty disorder. His
spectacles grew very dim indeed, and he was obliged to polish them
carefully on his cotton handkerchief before he could see his
grand-daughter plainly enough. Then he touched her dimpled cheek
tremblingly with the end of his finger, and sobbed out
He returned to his chair, his head shaking a good deal before he
could regain his composure; and it was not until he had kindled his pipe,
and was smoking it, with his face turned towards the sleeping child, that
he felt at all like himself again
he said, half aloud, between the whiffs of his pipe
He murmured the word "yes" in a tone of contentment over and over again,
until, the pipe being finished, he prepared for sleep also. But no sleep
came to the old man. He was too full of thought, and too fearful of the
child waking in the night and wanting something. The air was close and
hot, and now and then a peal of thunder broke overhead; but a profound
peace and tranquillity, slightly troubled by his new joy, held possession
of him. His grandchild was there, and his daughter was coming back to him
in three days.

Oh, how he would welcome her! He would not let her speak one word of her
wilfulness and disobedience, and the long, cruel neglect which had left
him in ignorance of where she lived, and what had become of her. It was
partly his fault, for having been too hard upon her, and too hasty and
hot-tempered. He had learnt better since then
Very early in the morning, before the tardy daylight could creep into the
darkened room, old Oliver was up and busy. He had been in the habit of
doing for himself, as he called it, ever since his daughter had forsaken
him, and he was by nature fastidiously clean and neat. But now there
would be additional duties for him during the next three days; for there
would be Dolly to wash, and dress, and provide breakfast for. Every few
minutes he stole a look at her lying still asleep; and as soon as he
discovered symptoms of awaking, he hastily lifted Beppo on to the bed,
that her opening eyes should be greeted by some familiar sight. She
stretched out her wonderful little hands, and caught hold of the dog's
rough head before venturing to lift her eyelids, while Oliver looked on
in speechless delight. At length she ventured to peep slyly at him, and
then addressed herself to Beppo
she asked
said Oliver, in his softest voice
inquired Dolly, sitting up on her pillow, and
staring very hard with her blue eyes into his wrinkled face
he answered, looking at her anxiously
she said, counting upon her little fingers
She flung her arms suddenly about his neck and kissed him, while old
Oliver trembled with intense joy. It was quite a marvel to him how she
helped him to dress her, laughing merrily at the strange mistakes he made
in putting on her clothes the wrong side before; and when he assured her
that her mother would come back very soon, she seemed satisfied to put up
with any passing inconvenience. The shop, with its duties, and the
necessity of getting in his daily stock of newspapers, entirely slipped
his memory; and he was only recalled to it by a very loud rapping at the
door as he was pouring out Dolly's breakfast. To his great surprise he
discovered that he had forgotten to take down his shutters, though it was
past the hour when his best customers passed by.

The person knocking proved to be none other than Tony, who greeted the
old man's appearance with a prolonged whistle, and a grave and
reproachful stare
he said, in a tone of remonstrance
answered Oliver, meekly
said Tony
he replied.

Tony winked, and put his tongue into his cheek; but he gave utterance to
no remark until after the shutters were in their place. Then he surveyed
himself as well as he could, with an air of satisfaction. His face and
hands were clean, and his skin looked very white through the holes in his
tattered clothes; even his feet, except for an unavoidable under surface
of dust, were unsoiled. His jacket and trousers appeared somewhat more
torn than the evening before; but they bore every mark of having been
washed also
remarked Tony
answered Oliver
asked Tony, in
a patronizing tone
he said
continued Tony
Oliver looked questioningly at the boy, who returned a frank, honest
gaze, and said
as he held out his hand for the money.
There was some doubt in the old man's mind after Tony had disappeared as
to whether he had not done a very foolish thing; but he soon forgot it
when he returned to the breakfast-table; and long before he himself could
have reached the place and returned, Tony was back again with his right
number of papers.

Before many minutes Tony was sitting upon an old box at a little distance
from the table, where Oliver sat with his grandchild. A basin of coffee
and a large hunch of bread rested upon his knees, and Beppo was sniffing
round him with a doubtful air. Dolly was shy in this strange company,
and ate her breakfast with a sedate gravity which filled both her
companions with astonishment and admiration. When the meal was finished,
old Oliver took his daughter's letter from his waistcoat pocket and read
it aloud to Tony, who listened with undivided interest
he said, with a sigh of disappointment
he added, with a brightening face
answered Oliver, emphatically
said Tony, in a tone of envy
asked Oliver
he answered
A&rsqb;

&lsqb;Footnote A: It may be necessary to assure some readers that this
ignorance is not exaggerated. The City Mission Reports, and similar
records, show that such cases are too frequent
said Oliver
pursued Tony
said old Oliver, thoughtfully
He spoke absently, in a low voice, as though talking to some person
whom Tony could not see, and the boy was silent a minute or two,
thinking busily
he asked, at last
replied Oliver, regretfully
said the boy, falling again into busy thought, from
which he aroused himself by getting up from his box, and rubbing his
fingers through his wet and tangled hair
he said, in a questioning tone
answered old Oliver
said Tony, at the same
time drawing himself up to his full height
asked Oliver
answered Tony
said
Oliver, earnestly
inquired Tony, with an eager face
answered the old man
he said, nodding
replied Oliver
said the boy
He could take Dolly's hand into his own this morning, and he looked down
curiously at it,-- a small, rosy, dimpled hand, such as he had never seen
before so closely. A lump rose in his throat, and his eyelids smarted
with tears again. It was such a little thing, such a pretty little thing,
he said to himself, covering it fondly with his other hand. There was no
fear that Tony would forget to come back to old Oliver's house
he said, with a choking voice
The next three days were a season of unmixed happiness to old Oliver. The
little child was so merry, yet withal so gentle and sweet-tempered, that
she kept him in a state of unwearied delight, without any alloy of
anxiety or trouble. She trotted at his side with short, running
footsteps, when he went out early in the morning to fetch his daily stock
of newspapers. She watched him set his room tidy, and made believe to
help him by dusting the legs and seats of his two chairs. She stood with
folded hands and serious face, looking on as he was busy with his
cooking. When she was not thus engaged she played contentedly with Beppo,
prattling to him in such a manner, that Oliver often forgot what he was
about while listening to her. She played with him, too, frolicsome little
games of hide-and-seek, in which he grew as eager as herself; and
sometimes she stole his spectacles, or handkerchief, or anything she
could lay her mischievous fingers upon to hide away in some unthought-of
spot; while her shrewd, cunning little face put on an expression of
profound gravity as old Oliver sought everywhere for them.

As Friday evening drew near, the old man's gladness took a shade of
anxiety. His daughter was coming home to him, and his heart was full of
unutterable joy and gratitude; but he did not know exactly how they
should go on in the future. He was averse to change; yet this little
house, with its single room, to which he had moved when she forsook him,
was too scanty in its accommodation. He had made up a rude sort of bed
for himself under the counter in the shop, and was quite ready to give up
his own to Susan and his little love, as he called Dolly; but would Susan
let him have his own way in this, and many other things? He provided a
sumptuous tea, and added a fresh salad to it from the greengrocer's next
door; but though he and Dolly waited and watched till long after the
child's bed-time, taking occasional snatches of bread and butter, still
Susan did not arrive. At length a postman entered the little shop with a
noise which made Oliver's heart beat violently, and tossed a letter down
upon the counter. He carried it to the door, where there was still light
enough to read it, and saw that it was in Susan's handwriting
It was some time before the full meaning of Susan's letter penetrated
to her father's brain; but when it did, he was not at first altogether
pained by it. True, it was both a grief and disappointment to think
that his daughter, instead of returning to him, was already on her way
across the sea to a very distant land. But as this came slowly to his
mind, there came also the thought that there would now be no one to
divide with him the treasure committed to his charge. The little child
would belong to him alone. They might go on still, living as they had
done these last three days, and being all in all to one another. If he
could have chosen, his will would certainly have been for Susan to
return to them; but, since he could not have his choice, he felt that
there were some things which would be all the happier for him because
of her absence.

He put Dolly to bed, and then went out to shut up the shop for the night.
As he carried in his feeble arms a single shutter at a time, he heard
himself hailed by a boy's voice, which was lowered to a low and
mysterious whisper, and which belonged to Tony, who took the shutter out
of his hands
he said, pointing with his thumb
through the half open door
answered Oliver
inquired Tony
asked old Oliver
said Tony, with an eager face
he answered, somewhat sadly
said Tony
replied old Oliver
he answered
said Oliver
answered Tony, readily; and he lingered about the
doorway until he heard the old man inside fasten the bolts and locks, and
saw the light go out in the pane of glass over the door. Then he
scampered noiselessly with his naked feet along the alley in the
direction of Covent Garden, where he purposed to spend the night, if left
undisturbed.

Old Oliver went back into his room, where the tea-table was still set
out for his Susan's welcome; but he had no heart to clear the things
away. A chill came over his spirit as his eye fell upon the preparations
he had made to give her such a cordial greeting, that she would know at
once he had forgiven her fully. He lit his pipe, and sat pondering
sorrowfully over all the changes that had happened to him since those
old, far-away days when he was a boy, in the pleasant, fresh, healthy
homestead at the foot of the Wrekin. He felt all of a sudden how very old
he was; a poor, infirm, hoary old man. His sight was growing dim even,
and his hearing duller every day; he was sure of it. His limbs ached
oftener, and he was earlier wearied in the evening; yet he could not
sleep soundly at nights, as he had been used to do. But, worst of all,
his memory was not half as good as it had been. Sometimes, of late, he
had caught himself reading a newspaper quite a fortnight old, and he had
not found it out till he happened to see the date at the top. He could
not recollect the names of people as he did once; for many of his
customers to whom he supplied the monthly magazines were obliged to tell
him their names and the book they wanted every time, before he could
remember them. And now there was this young child cast upon him to be
thought of, and cared and worked for. It was very thoughtless and
reckless of Susan! Suppose he should forget or neglect any of her tender
wants! Suppose his dull ear should grow too deaf to catch the pretty
words she said when she asked for something! Suppose he should not see
when the tears were rolling down her cheeks, and nobody would comfort
her! It might very easily be so. He was not the hale man he was when
Susan was just such another little darling, and he could toss her up to
the ceiling in his strong hands. It was as much as he could do to lift
Dolly on to his feeble knee, and nurse her quietly, not even giving her a
ride to market upon it; and how stiff he felt if she sat there long!

Old Oliver laid aside his pipe, and rested his worn face upon his hands,
while the heavy tears came slowly and painfully to his eyes, and
trickled down his withered cheeks. His joy had fled, and his unmingled
gladness had faded quite away. He was a very poor, very old man; and the
little child was very, very young. What would become of them both, alone
in London?

He did not know whether it was a voice speaking within himself in his own
heart, or words whispered very softly into his ear; but he heard a low,
quiet, still, small voice, which said
And old Oliver answered, with a
sob
In the new life which had now fairly begun for Oliver, it was partly as
he had foreseen; he was apt to forget many things, and he had a fretting
consciousness of this forgetfulness. When he was in the house playing
with Dolly, or reading to her, the shop altogether slipped away from his
memory, and he was only recalled to it by the loud knocking or shouting
of some customer in it. On the other hand, when he was sitting behind the
counter looking for news from India in the papers, news in which he was
already profoundly concerned, though it was impossible that Susan could
yet have reached it, he grew so absorbed, that he did not know how the
time was passing by, and both he and his little grand-daughter were
hungry before he had thought of getting ready any meal. He tried all
kinds of devices for strengthening his failing memory; but in vain. He
even forgot that he did forget; and when Dolly was laughing and
frolicking about him he grew a child again, and felt himself the happiest
man in London.

The person who took upon himself the heaviest weight of anxiety and
responsibility about Dolly was Tony, who began to make it his daily
custom to pass by the house at the hour when old Oliver ought to be going
for his morning papers; and if he found no symptom of life about the
place, he did not leave off kicking and butting at the shop-door until
the owner appeared. It was very much the same thing at night, when the
time for shutting up came; though it generally happened now that the boy
was paying his friends an evening visit, and was therefore at hand to put
up the shutters for Oliver. Tony could not keep away from the place.
Though he felt a boy's contemptuous pity for the poor old man's declining
faculties as regarded business, he had a very high veneration for his
learning. Nothing pleased him better than to sit upon the old box near
the door, his elbows on his knees, and his chin upon his hands, while
Oliver read aloud, with Dolly upon his knee, her curly hair and small
pretty features making a strange contrast to his white head and withered,
hollow face. Tony, who had never had anything to love except a stray cur
or two, which he had always lost after a few days' friendship, felt as if
he could have suffered himself to be put to death for either of these
two; while Beppo came in for a large share of his unclaimed affections.
The chief subject of their reading was the life of the Master, who was so
intimately dear to the heart of old Oliver. Tony was very eager to learn
all he could of this great friend who did so much for the old man, and
who might perhaps be persuaded some day or other to take a little notice
of him, if he should fail to get a crossing for himself. Oliver, in his
long, unbroken solitude of six years, had fallen into a notion, amounting
to a firm belief, that his Lord was not dead and far off, as most of the
world believed, but was a very present, living friend, always ready to
listen to the meanest of his words. He had a vague suspicion that his
faith had got into a different course from that of most other people; and
he bore meekly the rebukes of his sister Charlotte for the
unwholesomeness of his visions. But none the less, when he was alone, he
talked and prayed to, and spoke to Tony of this Master, as one who was
always very near at hand
said Tony
answered Oliver, earnestly
pursued Tony,
reflectively
said Oliver
asked Tony
he repeated
cried Tony, his eyes glistening
replied old Oliver, with a faltering voice
asked Tony
he answered
repeated Tony, in a tone of
disappointment
exclaimed old Oliver, eagerly
Tony made no answer. He sat with his sharp, unboyish face gazing intently
into the fire; for by this time autumn had set in, and the old man was
chilly of an evening. A very uncertain, dim idea was dawning upon him
that this master and friend of old Oliver's was a being very different
from an ordinary man, however great and rich he might be. He had grown to
love the thought of him, and to listen attentively to the book which told
the manner of life he led; but it was a chill to find out that he could
not look into his face, and hear his voice, as he could Oliver's. His
heart was heavy, and very sad
he murmured to himself, at last
said Oliver
said Tony, after another pause
He had turned his face away from Oliver, and looked across into the
darkest corner of the room, where he could see nothing but shadow. The
old man felt puzzled, and somewhat troubled, but he only sighed softly to
himself; and opening the Testament, he read aloud in it till he was
calmed again, and Tony was listening in rapt attention
he said, as the hour came for Tony to go
he answered
said Oliver
It looked very much like a long box, and was not much larger. Two or
three beetles crawled sluggishly away as the light fell upon them, and
dusty cobwebs festooned all the corners; but to Tony it seemed so
magnificent an accommodation for sleeping, that he could scarcely
believe he heard old Oliver aright. He looked up into his face with a
sharp, incredulous gaze, ready to wink and thrust his tongue into his
cheek, if there was the least sign of making game of him. But the old
man was simply in earnest, and without a word Tony slipped down upon a
heap of paper shavings strewed within, drew his ragged jacket up about
his ears, and turned his face away, lest his tears should be seen. He
felt, a minute or two after, that a piece of an old rug was laid over
him, but he could say nothing; and old Oliver could not hear the sob
which broke from his lips
As some weeks went by, and no crossing and broom had been given to Tony,
he began to suspect that Oliver was imposing upon him. Now that he slept
under the counter, he could often hear the old man talking aloud to his
invisible Friend as he smoked his pipe; and once or twice Tony crept
noiselessly to the door and watched him, after he had finished smoking,
kneel down and hide his face in his hands for some minutes together. But
the boy could see nothing, and his wish had not been granted; even
though, as he grew more instructed, he followed Oliver's example, and,
kneeling down behind the counter, whispered out a prayer for it. To be
sure his life was easier, especially the nights of it; for he never now
went hungry and starved to bed upon some cold, hard door-step. But it was
old Oliver who did that for him, not old Oliver's Master. So far as he
knew, the Lord Jesus had taken no notice whatever of him; and the
feeling, at first angry, softened down into a kind of patient grief,
which was quickly dying away into indifference.

Oliver had done himself no bad turn by offering a shelter to the solitary
lad. Tony always woke early in the morning, and if it rained he would run
for the papers, before turning out to "find for himself" in the streets.
He generally took care to be out of the way at meal-times; for it was as
much as the old man could do to provide for himself and Dolly. Sometimes
Tony saw him at the till, counting over his pence with rather a troubled
face. Once, after receiving a silver fourpenny piece, an extraordinary
and undreamed of event, Tony dropped it, almost with a feeling of guilt,
through the slit in the counter which communicated with the till. But
Oliver was so bewildered by its presence among the coppers, that he was
compelled to confess what he had done, saying it would have cost him
more than that for lodgings these cold nights
said Oliver
said Tony, bashfully, and pushing the coin into her
little hand
answered Dolly, accepting it promptly
It seemed ample payment to Tony, who went down on his knees to have the
kisses pressed upon his face, which had never felt a kiss since his
mother died. But Oliver was not satisfied with the bargain, though he
drew Dolly to him fondly, and left the money in her hand
he said
he answered, dejectedly
said Oliver
replied Tony
said Oliver, looking down at Dolly's
tightly-closed hand
cried Tony
said Oliver, after a little pause
It did not seem much to Tony, who had no idea as yet of the pleasures of
smoking; yet he roused up just before falling into his deep sleep at
night to step softly to the door, and look in upon Oliver. He was sitting
in his arm-chair, with his pipe between his lips, but there was no
tobacco in it; and he was holding more eager converse than ever with his
unseen companion
he said
Tony could hear no more, and he stole back to bed, his mind full of new
and vague hopes. He dreamed of the fourpenny piece, and the gentleman who
had given it, and of Dolly, who bought a wondrous broom with it, in his
dream, which swept a beautiful crossing of itself. But old Oliver sat
still a long time, talking half aloud; for his usual drowsiness did not
come to him. It was nearly five months now since Dolly was left to him,
and he felt his deafness and blindness growing upon him slowly. His
infirmities were not yet so burdensome as to make him dependent upon
others; but he felt himself gradually drawing near to such a state.
Dolly's clothes were getting sadly in want of mending; there was scarcely
a fastening left upon them, and neither he nor Tony could sew on a button
or tape. It was a long time -- a very long time -- since his sister had been
to see him; and, with the reluctancy of old age to any active exertion,
he had put off from week to week the task of writing to her to tell her
of Susan's departure, and the charge he had in his little grandchild. He
made up his mind that he would do it tomorrow
The morning was a fine soft, sunny December day, such as comes sometimes
after a long season of rain and fog, and Tony proposed taking Dolly out
for a walk through the streets, to which Oliver gladly consented, as it
would give to him exactly the undisturbed leisure he needed for writing
his letter to Charlotte. But Dolly was not in her usual spirits; on the
contrary, she was grave and sober, and at length Tony, thinking she was
tired, sat down on a door-step, and took her upon his knee, to tell her
his dream of the wonderful broom which swept beautifully all by itself.
Dolly grew more and more pensive after hearing this, and sat silent for a
long time, with her small head resting thoughtfully upon her hand, as she
looked up and down the street
she said, at last
For a few minutes Tony tried to shake her resolution, and persuade her
to change her mind. He even tempted her with the sight of a doll in a
shop-window; but she remained steadfast, and he was not sorry to give in
at last. Since the idea had entered his head that the money had been
given to him for the purpose of buying a broom, he had rather regretted
parting with it, and he felt some anxiety lest he should not be allowed
a second chance. Dolly's light-heartedness had returned, and she
trotted cheerfully by his side as they walked on in search of a shop
where they could make their purchase. It was some time before they
found one, and they had already left behind them the busier
thoroughfares, and had reached a knot of quieter streets where there
were more foot-passengers, for the fine morning had tempted many people
out for pleasure as well as business. Tony was particular in his choice
of a broom, but once bought, he carried it over his shoulder, and went
on his way with Dolly in triumph.

They were passing along chattering busily, when Tony's eyes fell upon a
child about as old as Dolly, standing on the kerb-stone with a lady, who
looked anxiously across to the other side of the broad and very dirty
road, for the day before had been rainy. They were both finely dressed,
and the little girl had on new boots of shining leather, which it was
evident she was very much afraid of soiling. For a minute Tony only
looked on at their perplexity, but then he went up to them, holding Dolly
by the hand.

&lsqb;A NEW BROOM AND A CROSSING
he said
Both the lady and the child looked very searchingly into Tony's face. It
was pale and meagre; but there was a pleasant smile upon it, and his
eyes shone down upon the two children with a very loving light in them.
The lady took Dolly's hand in hers, nodding permission for him to carry
her little child over to the other side, and she waited for him to come
back to his own charge. Then she took out her purse, and put twopence
into his hand
said Tony
asked the lady.

It seemed a good place to try one in; there were four roads meeting, and
a cab-stand close by. Plenty of people were passing to and fro, and the
middle of the road was very muddy. Tony begged a wisp of straw from a
cabman, to make a seat for Dolly in the sunshine under a blank bit of
wall, while he set to work with a will, feeling rather pleased than not
that the broom would not sweep of itself. A crossing was speedily made,
and for two or three hours Tony kept it well swept. By that time it was
twelve o'clock, and Dolly's dinner would be ready for her before they
could reach home, if old Oliver had not forgotten it. It seemed a great
pity to leave his new post so early. Most passers-by, certainly, had
appeared not to see him at all; but he had already received fivepence
halfpenny, chiefly in halfpence, from ladies who were out for their
morning's walk; and Dolly was enjoying herself very much in the sunshine,
receiving all the attention which he could spare from his crossing.
However a beginning was made. The broom and the crossing were his
property; and Tony's heart, beat fast with pride and gladness as he
carried the weary little Dolly all the way home again. He resolved to put
by half of his morning's earnings towards replacing the fourpenny-piece
she had given back to him; or perhaps he would buy her a beautiful doll,
dressed like a real lady
As old Oliver was stooping over his desk on the counter, and bringing his
dim eyes as close as he could to the letter he was writing, his shop-door
was darkened by the unexpected entrance of his sister Charlotte herself.
She was dressed with her usual extreme neatness, bordering upon
gentility, and she carried upon her arm a small fancy reticule, which
contained some fresh eggs, and a few russet apples, brought up expressly
from the country. Oliver welcomed her with more than ordinary pleasure,
and led her at once into his room behind. Charlotte's quick eyes detected
in an instant the traces of a child's dwelling there; and before Oliver
could utter a word, she picked up a little frock, and was holding it out
at arm's length, with an air of utter surprise and misgiving
she exclaimed, and her questioning voice, with its tone
of amazement, rang very clearly into his ears
he answered, in haste
cried his sister, sinking down on a chair, but still
keeping the torn little frock in her hand
he continued, in a tremulous
voice
said Charlotte, with a sigh of relief
he answered
He knew Susan's letters off by heart, and did not need his spectacles,
nor a good light to read them by. Charlotte listened with emphatic nods,
and many exclamations of astonishment
she remarked
he answered
cried Charlotte
replied Oliver
inquired Charlotte
he answered, in some confusion
repeated his sister, as if he had said a monster
he replied
she pursued, fixing
him with her glittering eyes in a manner which did not tend to restore
his composure
he said in a feeble tone
she exclaimed
stammered old Oliver
Charlotte's consternation was past all powers of speech. Here was her
brother, a respectable man, who had seen better days, and whose sister
had been a dressmaker in good families, harbouring in his own house a
common boy off the streets, who, no doubt, was a thief and pickpocket,
with all sorts of low ways and bad language. At the same time there was
poor Susan's little girl dwelling under the same roof; the child whose
pretty manners she was to attend to, living in constant companionship
with a vulgar and vicious boy! What she might have said upon recovering
her speech, neither she nor Oliver ever knew; for at this crisis Tony
himself appeared, carrying Dolly and his new broom in his arms, and
looking very haggard and tattered himself, his bare feet black with mud,
and his bare head in a hopeless condition of confusion, and tangle
shouted Dolly, as she came
through the shop, and before she perceived the presence of a stranger
She was suddenly silent as soon as her eye fell upon the stranger; but
Aunt Charlotte had heard enough. She rose with great dignity from her
chair, and was about to address herself vehemently to Tony, when old
Oliver interrupted her
he said
Old Oliver spoke so emphatically, that his sister was impressed and
silenced for a minute. She took the little girl away from Tony, and
glared at him with a sternness which made him feel very uncomfortable;
but her eye softened a little, and her face grew less harsh
she said, in a sharp voice
he answered
she
continued, with energy
answered Tony, nodding his head
said the sharp old woman
Tony slunk away sadly, with a sudden down-heartedness. He returned so
joyous and triumphant, in spite of his weariness, that this unexpected
and unpleasant greeting had been a very severe shock to him. With his
broom over his shoulder, and with his listless, slouching steps, he
sauntered slowly back to his crossing; but he had no heart for it now
The night fell early, for a thick fog came on in the afternoon. Tony
cowered down upon his broom under the wall where Dolly had sat in the
sunshine all the morning to watch him sweep his crossing. It was all over
now. She was lost to him; for he should never dare to go back to old
Oliver's house, and face that terrible old woman again. There was nothing
for him but to return to his old life and his old haunts; and a chill ran
through him, body and spirit, as he thought of it. His heap of paper
shavings under the counter, where the biting winds could not reach him,
came to his mind, and the tears rushed to his eyes. But to-night, at
least, there would be no need to sleep out of doors, for he had some
money in the safest corner of his ragged pocket, tied up in it securely
with a bit of string. He could afford to pay for a night's lodging, and
he knew very well where he could get one.

About nine o'clock Tony turned his weary feet towards a slum he knew
of in Westminster, where there was a cellar open to everybody who could
pay two-pence for a night's shelter. His heart was very full and heavy
with resentment against his enemy, and a great longing to see Dolly. He
loitered about the door of the cellar, reluctant and almost afraid to
venture in; for it was so long since he had been driven to any of these
places that he felt nearly like a stranger among them. Besides, in former
times he had been kicked, and beaten, and driven from the fire, and
fought with by the bigger boys; and he had become unaccustomed to such
treatment of late. How different this lodging-house was to the quiet
peaceful home where Dolly knelt down every evening at her grandfather's
knee, and prayed for him; for now she always put Tony's name into her
childish prayers! He should never, never hear her again, nor see old
Oliver seated in his arm-chair, smoking his long pipe, while he talked
with that strange friend and master of his. Ah! he would never hear or
know any more of that unseen Christ, who was so willing to be his master
and friend, for the Lord Jesus Christ could never come into such a wicked
place as this, which was the only home he had. He had given him the
crossing and the broom, and that was the end of it. He must take care of
himself now, and keep out of gaol if he could, and if not, why then he
had better make a business of thieving, and become as good a pickpocket
as
who had once stolen a watch from a policeman
himself.

Clever Dog Tom was the first to greet Tony when he slipped in at last,
and he seemed inclined to make much of him; but Tony was too troubled
for receiving any consolation from Tom's friendly advances. He crept
away into the darkest corner, and stretched himself on the thin straw
which covered the damp and dirty floor, but he could not fall asleep.
There was a good deal of quarreling among the boys, and the men who
wished to sleep swore long and loudly at them. Then there followed a
fight, which grew so exciting at last that every person in the place,
except Tony, gathered about the boys in a ring, encouraging and cheering
them. It was long after midnight before silence and rest came, and then
he fell into a broken slumber, dreaming of Dolly and old Oliver, until
he awoke and found his face wet with tears. He got up before any of his
bed-fellows were aroused, and made his way out into the fresh keen air
of a December morning.

Day after day went by, and night after night Tony was growing more
indifferent again to the swearing and fighting of his old comrades. He
began to listen with delight to the tales of Clever Dog Tom, who told him
that hands like his would work well in his line, and his innocent-looking
face would go a long way towards softening any judge and jury, or would
bring him favour with the chaplain, and easy times in gaol. He kept his
crossing still, and did tolerably well, earning enough to keep himself in
food, and to pay for his night's shelter; but he was beginning to hanker
after something more. If he could not be good, and be on the same side as
old Oliver and Dolly, he thought it would be better to be altogether on
the other side, like Tom, who dressed well, and lived well, and was
looked up to by other boys. It was a week after he had left old Oliver's
house, and he was about to leave his crossing for the night, when a
gentleman stopped him suddenly, and looked keenly into his face
he said
he answered
said the gentleman
replied Tony, with a deep
sigh. It seemed so long ago that he spoke of his love for her as if it
was a thing altogether passed away and dead, yet his heart still ached at
the memory of it
said his friend
Tony held it in the palm of his hand long after the gentleman was out of
sight, gazing at it in the lamplight. It was very beautiful and shining;
and oh! how Dolly's eyes would shine and sparkle if she could only see
it! And she ought to see it. By right it belonged to her; for had he not
given her his first fourpenny-piece freely, and had twenty kisses for it,
and then had she not given it him back to buy a broom with? she had never
had a single farthing of all his earnings. How he would like to show her
this beautiful piece of silver, and feel her soft little arms round his
neck, when he said it was to be her very own! He felt that he dare not
pass the night in the cellar with such a treasure about him, for Tom, who
was so clever, would be sure to find out that his pocket was worth the
picking, and Tony had not found that there was much honour among thieves.
What was he to do? Where was he to go
Almost without knowing where his feet were carrying him, Tony sauntered
through the streets until he found himself at the turn into the alley
within a few yards of Oliver's home, and his beloved Dolly. At any rate
he could pass down it, and, if the shop-door was not shut, he would wrap
his beautiful silver coin in a rag, and throw it into the inside; they
would be sure to guess who had done it, and what it was for. It was dark
down the alley, only one lamp and the greengrocer's gas lighting it up,
and Tony stole along quietly in the shadow. It was nearly time for Dolly
to be going to bed, he thought, and old Oliver was sure to be with her in
the inner room; but just as he came into the revealing glare of the
greengrocer's stall, his ears rang and his heart throbbed violently at
the sound of a shrill little scream of gladness, and the next moment he
felt himself caught by Dolly's arms, and dragged into the house by them
she shouted with all her
might
Dolly's voice quivered, and broke down into quick, childish sobs, while
she held Tony very fast, lest he should escape from her once again; and
old Oliver came quickly from the room beyond, and laid his hand fondly
upon the boy's shoulder
he asked
he cried
answered Oliver, pushing him gently before him into
the house
said Tony, mournfully; for he had
neglected himself during the last week, and looked very much like what he
had done when he had first seen old Oliver and his little grand-daughter
answered Oliver
When Tony returned to the kitchen he looked a different being; the gloom
was gone as well as the grime. He felt as if he had come to himself after
a long and very miserable dream. Here was old Oliver again, looking at
him with a kindly light in his dim eyes, and Dolly dancing about, with
her pretty merry little ways; and Beppo wagging his tail in joyous
welcome, as he sniffed round and round him. Even the egg was a token of
forgiveness and friendliness. That terrible old woman was not his enemy,
after all. He recollected what she had said he must do, and he resolved
to do it for Dolly's sake, and old Oliver's. He would learn to read and
write, and he would pinch himself hard to buy some better clothing, lest
he should continue to be a disgrace to them; shoes he must have first of
all, as those were what the sharp but friendly old woman had particularly
mentioned. At any rate, he could never run away again from this home,
where he was so loved and cared for.

Oliver told him how sadly Dolly had fretted after him, and watched for
him at the door, hour after hour, to see him come home again. He said
that in the same way, only with a far greater longing and love, his
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, was waiting for Tony to go to him. He
could not half understand it, but a vague feeling of a love passing all
understanding sank deeply into his heart. He fell asleep that night under
the counter with the tranquil peacefulness of one who has been tossed
about in a great storm and tempest, and has been brought safely to the
desired haven
It was several weeks before Tony could scrape together enough money for
his new boots, though he pinched and starved himself with heroic courage
and endurance. He did not mean to buy them at a shop; for he knew a place
in Whitechapel where boots quite good enough for him were to be had for
two or three shillings. He was neither ambitious nor fastidious; old
boots patched up would do very well to start with, if he could only
manage to get them before aunt Charlotte came up to town again. She had
sent word she was coming the last Saturday in January; and early in the
afternoon of that day, before the train could come in from Stratford,
Tony started off to the place where he intended to make his purchase.

It was a small open space in one of the streets of Whitechapel, where
there was an area of flags, lying off the pavement. Several traders held
possession of this square, sitting on low stools, or cross-legged on the
ground, with their stock in trade around them. One dealer bought and sold
all kinds of old and rusty pieces of iron; another, a woman, ill clad and
with red eyes, displayed before her a dingy assortment of ragged clothes,
which were cheapened by other spare and red-eyed women, who held almost
naked children by the hand. It was cold, and a bitter, keen east wind was
searching every corner of London streets. The salesman Tony was come to
deal with had a tolerable selection of old boots, very few of them pairs,
some with pretty good upper-leathers, but with no soles worth speaking
of; and others thickly cobbled and patched, but good enough to keep the
feet dry, without presenting a very creditable appearance. For the first
time in his life Tony found out the perplexity of having a choice to
make. There were none which exactly fitted him; but a good fit is a
luxury for richer folks than Tony, and he was not troubled about it. His
chief anxiety was to look well in the eyes of Dolly's aunt, who might
possibly let him see her on her way back to the station, if she approved
of him; and who would not now be obliged to carry Dolly off with her, to
be out of the way of his naked feet.

He fixed upon a pair at last, urged and coaxed to them by the dealer.
They were a good deal too large, and his feet slipped about in them
uncomfortably; but the man assured him that was how everybody, even
gentlefolks, bought them, to leave room for growing. There was an
awkward, uneven patch under one of the soles, and the other heel was worn
down at the side; but at least they covered his feet well. He shambled
away in them slowly and toilsomely, hardly knowing how to lift one foot
after another, yet full of pride in his new possessions. It was a long
way home to old Oliver's alley, between Holborn and the Strand; but he
was in no hurry to arrive there before they had finished and cleared away
their tea; so he travelled painfully in that direction, stopping now and
then to regale himself at the attractive windows of tripe and cow-heel
shops. He watched the lamplighters kindling the lamps, and the
shopkeepers lighting up their gas; and then he heard the great solemn
clock of St. Paul's strike six. Tea would be quite over now, and Tony
turned down a narrow back street, which would prove a nearer way home
than the thronged thoroughfares, and set off to run as fast as he could
in his awkward and unaccustomed boots.

It was not long before he came to a sudden and sharp fall off the
kerb-stone, as he trod upon a bit of orange-peel, and slipped upon it. He
felt stunned for a few seconds, and sat still rubbing his forehead. These
back streets were very quiet, for the buildings were mostly offices and
warehouses, and most of them were already closed for the night. He lifted
himself up at length, and set his foot upon the flags; but a shrill cry
of pain broke from his lips, and rang loudly through the quiet street. He
fell back upon the pavement, quivering and trembling, with a chilly
moisture breaking out upon his skin. What hurt had been done to him? How
was it that he could not bear to walk? He took off his new boots, and
tried once more, but with no better success. He could not endure the
agony of standing or moving.

Yet he must move; he must get up and walk. If he did not go home, they
would think he had run away again, for fear of meeting Dolly's aunt. At
that thought he set off to crawl homewards upon his hands and knees, with
suppressed groans, as his foot trailed uselessly along the ground. Yet he
knew he could not advance very far in this manner. What if he should have
to lie all night upon the hard paving-stones! for he could not remember
ever having seen a policeman in these back streets; and there did not
seem to be anybody else likely to pass that way. It was freezing fast,
now the sun was gone down, and his hands scraped up the frosty mud as he
dragged himself along. If he stayed out all night, he must die of cold
and pain before morning.

But if that was true which old Oliver said so often, that the Lord Jesus
Christ loved him, and that he was always with those whom he loved, then
he was not alone and helpless even here, in the deserted street, with the
ice and darkness of a winter's night about him. Oh! if he could but feel
the hand of Christ touching him, or hear the lowest whisper of his voice,
or catch the dimmest sight of his face! Perhaps it was he who was helping
him to crawl towards the stir and light of a more frequented street,
which he could see afar off, though the pain he felt made him giddy and
sick. It became too much for him at last, however, and he drew himself
into the shelter of a warehouse door, and crouched down in a corner,
crying, with clasped hands, and sobbing voice
After uttering this cry Tony lay there for some minutes, his eyes growing
glazed and his ears dull, when a footstep came briskly up the street, and
some one, whom he could not now see for the strange dimness of his
sight, stopped opposite to him, and then stooped to touch him on the arm
said a voice he seemed to know
answered Tony, faintly
asked the stranger
he answered.

The gentleman stooped down yet lower, and passed his hand gently along
Tony's leg till he came to the place where his touch gave him the most
acute pain
he said to himself
answered Tony, more faintly than before.
He felt a strange numbness creeping over him, and his lips were too
parched and his tongue too heavy for speaking. The gentleman took off his
own great-coat and wrapped it well about him, placing him at the same
time in a more comfortable position. Then he ran quickly to the nearest
street, hailed the first cab, and drove back to where Tony was lying.

&lsqb;TONY'S ACCIDENT
The pain Tony was suffering kept him partially conscious of what was
happening to him. He knew that he was carried gently into a large hall,
and that two or three persons came to look at him, to whom his new friend
spoke in eager and rapid tones
he said
answered another hearty
voice
Tony felt himself carried up stairs into a large room, where there were a
number of small beds, with a pale little face lying on every pillow.
There was a vacant cot at the end, and he was laid upon it, after having
his tattered clothes taken off him. His new boots were gone altogether,
having been left behind on the steps of the warehouse. His hands and
knees, bruised with crawling along the frosty stones, were gently bathed
with a soft sponge and warm water. He was surrounded by kind faces,
looking pitifully down upon him, and the gentleman who had brought him
there spoke to him in a very pleasant and cheering voice
he said
murmured Tony
answered Mr. Ross, smiling
cried Tony, starting up, but falling back again with
a groan
He spoke in a tone of so much grief, that the smile quite passed away
from the face of Mr. Ross, and he laid his hand upon his, and answered
him very earnestly
he said
Tony gave him very minute and urgent directions where to find old
Oliver's shop; and then he resigned himself, with the patience and
fortitude of most of the little sufferers in that hospital, to the
necessary pain he had to bear.

It was Sunday afternoon when old Oliver and Dolly entered the hall of the
Children's Hospital and inquired for Tony. There was something about the
old man's look of age and the little child's sweet face which found them
favour, even in a place where everybody was received with kindness. A
nurse, who met them slowly climbing the broad staircase, turned back with
them, taking Dolly's hand in hers, and led them up to the room where
they would find Tony. There were many windows in it, and the sunshine,
which never shone into their own home, was lighting it up gaily. The cots
were all covered with white counterpanes, and most of the little
patients, who had been asleep the night before, were now awake, and
sitting up in bed, with little tables before them, which they could slide
up and down as they wished along the sides of their cots. There was no
sign of medicine, and nothing painful to see, except the wan faces of the
children themselves. But Oliver and Dolly had no eyes but for Tony, and
they hurried on to the corner where he was lying. His face was very
white, and his eyelids were closed, and his lips drawn in as if he were
still in pain. But at the very gentle and almost frightened touch of
Dolly's fingers his eyes opened quickly, and then how his face changed!
It looked as if all the sunshine in the room had centred upon it, and his
voice shook with gladness
he said
she answered, clasping
both her small hands round his
said old Oliver
This promise of promotion partly satisfied Dolly, and she sat still upon
Oliver's knee beside Tony's cot, where his eyes could rest with
contentment and pleasure upon them both, though the nurse would not let
them talk much. When they went away she took them through the girls'
wards in the story below; for the girls were more sumptuously lodged than
the boys. These rooms were very lofty, with windows reaching to the
cornice of the ceiling, and with grand marble chimney-pieces about the
fireplaces; for in former times, the nurse told them, this had been a
gentleman's mansion, where gay parties and assemblies had been held; but
never had there been such a party and assembly as the one now in it.

Old Oliver walked down between the rows of cots, with his little love
clinging shyly to his hand, smiling tenderly upon each poor little face
turned to look at them. Some of the children smiled back to him, and
nodded cheerfully to Dolly, lifting up their dolls for her to see, and
calling to her to listen to the pretty tunes their musical boxes were
playing. But others lay quietly upon their pillows half asleep, with
beautiful pictures hanging over their feeble heads,-- pictures of Christ
carrying a lamb in his arms; and again, of Christ with a little child
upon his knee; and again, of Christ holding the hand of the young girl
who seemed dead, but whose ear heard his voice saying
and she
came to life again in her father's and mother's house. The tears stood in
old Oliver's eyes, and his white head trembled a great deal before he had
seen all, and given one of his tender glances to each child
he exclaimed
He felt reluctant to go away; but his time was gone, and the nurse was
needed elsewhere. She kissed Dolly before she went, putting a biscuit in
her hand, and told Oliver the house was open every Sunday afternoon for
the friends of the children, if he chose to come again; and then they
walked home with slow, short footsteps, and all the Sunday evening they
talked together of the beautiful place they had seen, and how happy Tony
would be in the Children's Hospital
Old Oliver and Dolly made several visits to Tony while he was in the
hospital. Every Sunday afternoon they went back to it, until its great
door, and wide staircase, and sunny ward, became almost as familiar to
them as their own dull little house. Tony recovered quickly, yet he was
there some weeks before the doctor pronounced him strong enough to turn
out again to rough it in the world. As he grew better he learned a number
of things which were making him a wiser, as well as a stronger boy,
before the time came for him to leave.

The day before he was to go out of hospital, his friend, Mr. Ross, who
had been often to see him, called for the last time, and found him in the
room where the little patients who were nearly well were at play
together. Some of them were making believe to have a feast, with a small
dinner-service of wooden plates and dishes, and a few bits of
orange-peel, and biscuits; but Tony was sitting quietly and gravely on
one side, looking on from a distance. He had never learned to play
said Mr. Ross -- he was the only person who ever called him
Antony, and it seemed to make more of a man of him
answered Tony, looking
very grave
said his friend
Tony listened with a quick throbbing of his heart and a contraction in
his throat, which hindered him from speaking all at once when Mr. Ross
had finished. What a grand thing it would be for himself! But then there
were old Oliver and Dolly to be remembered
he said at last
He had spoken so gravely and thoughtfully that his reasons went directly
to the heart of Mr. Ross; but he asked him one more question, before he
could let his good plan for the boy drop
cried Tony, his eyes growing bright
inquired Mr. Ross
answered Tony, pointing to a picture of the Saviour blessing young
children
said Mr. Ross
It was a sailor's suit, sent to the hospital by some mother, whose boy
had perhaps outgrown it; or, it may be, whose boy had been taken away
from all her tender care for him. It was of good, rough, thick blue
cloth, and fitted Tony well. He had grown a good deal during his
illness, and his face had become whiter and more refined; his hair, too,
was cut to a proper length, and parted down the side, no longer lying
about his head in a tangled mass. He coloured up with pleasure as Mr.
Ross looked approvingly at him
he said, with a tone slightly
regretful in his voice
replied Mr. Ross
It seemed too much for Tony to believe, though a nurse who was sitting by
and sewing away busily, told him it was quite true. He was intensely
happy all the rest of the day, often standing up, and almost straining
his neck to get a satisfactory view of his own back, and stroking the nap
of his blue trousers with a fondling touch. They would all see him in it;
old Oliver, Dolly, and aunt Charlotte. There would be no question now as
to his fitness for taking Dolly out for a walk; he would be dressed well
enough to attend upon a princess. This made famous amends for the pair
of old boots he had lost the night he broke his leg; a loss he had often
silently lamented over in his own mind. The nurse told him she was
patching up his old clothes, and making him a cap, to wear when he was at
work on his crossing, for the new ones were much too good for that; and
Tony felt as rich as if a large fortune had been left to him.

It was a very joyful thing to go home again. Dolly was a little shy at
first of this new Tony, so different from the poor, ragged, wild-looking
old Tony; but a very short time was enough to make her familiar with his
nice blue suit, and the anchor-buttons upon it. He found his place under
the counter all nicely papered to keep the draughts out; and a little
chaff mattress, made by aunt Charlotte, laid down instead of the shavings
upon the floor. It was even pleasanter to be here than in the hospital.

But Tony found it hard work to go back to his crossing in the morning;
and he could not make out what was the matter with himself, he felt so
cross and idle. His old clothes seemed really such horrid rags that he
could scarcely bear to feel them about him; and if any passer-by looked
closely at him, he went red and hot all over. He was not so successful
as he thought he had been before his accident, or as he thought he ought
to be; for the roads were getting cleaner with the drier weather, and few
persons considered it necessary to give him a copper for his almost
needless labour. Worst of all,-- Clever Dog Tom found him out, and would
come often to see him; sometimes jeering him for his poor spirit in being
content with such low work, and sometimes boasting of the fine things he
could do, and displaying the fine clothes he could wear. It was truly
very hard work for Tony, after his long holiday at the hospital, where he
had had as much luxury and attention as a rich man's son.

But at home in the evening Tony felt all right again. Old Oliver set him
to learn to read and write, and he was making rapid progress, more rapid
than Dolly, who began at the same time, but who was apt to look upon it
all as only another kind of game, of which she grew more quickly tired
than of hide-and-seek. There was no one to check her, or to make her
understand it was real, serious work: neither old Oliver nor Tony could
find any fault with their darling. Now and then there came letters from
her mother, full of anxious questions about her, and loving messages to
her, telling her to be a good girl till she came back, but never saying
a word as to when there was any chance of her returning to England. In
one of these letters she sent word that a little sister was come for her
out in India, who was just like what Dolly herself had been when she was
a baby; but neither Oliver nor Tony could quite believe that. There never
had been such a child as Dolly; there never would be again
A second summer went by with its long, hot days, when the sun seemed to
stand still in the sky, and to dart down its most sultry beams into the
dustiest and closest streets. Out in the parks, and in the broad
thoroughfares where the fresh breeze could sweep along early in the
morning, and in the evening as soon as the air grew cooler, it was very
pleasant weather; and the people who could put on light summer dresses
enjoyed it very much. But away among the thickly-built and crowded
houses, where there were thousands of persons breathing over and over
again the same hot and stagnant atmosphere, it seemed as if the most
delicate and weakly among them must be suffocated by the breathless heat.
Old Oliver suffered very greatly, but he said nothing about it; indeed he
generally forgot the cause of his languor and feebleness. He never knew
now the day of the week, nor the month of the year. If any one had told
him in the dog-days of July that it was still April, he would only have
answered gently that it was bright, warm weather for the time of year.

But about old times his memory was good enough; he could tell long
stories of his boyhood, and describe the hills of his native place in
such a manner as to set Tony full of longings after the country, with its
cornfields, and meadows, and hedge-rows, which he had never seen. He
remembered his Bible, too, and could repeat chapter after chapter
describing his Master's life, as they sat together in the perpetual
twilight of their room; for now that it was summer-time it did not seem
right to keep the gas burning.

Tony's crossing had failed him altogether, for in dry weather nobody
wanted it; but in this extremity Mr. Ross came to his aid, and procured
him a place as errand-boy, where he was wanted from eight o'clock in the
morning till seven at night; so that he could still open old Oliver's
shop, and fetch him his right papers before he went out, and put the
shutters up when he came back. To become an errand-boy was a good step
forwards, and Tony was more than content. He never ran about bare-headed
and barefooted now as he had done twelve months before; and he had made
such good progress in reading and writing that he could already make out
the directions upon the parcels he had to deliver, after they had been
once read over to him. He did not object to the dry weather and clean
streets as he had done when his living depended upon his crossing; on the
contrary, he enjoyed the sunshine, and the crowds of gaily-dressed
people, for he could hold up his head amongst them, and no longer went
prowling about in the gutters searching after bits of orange-peel. He
kicked them into the gutters instead, mindful of that accident which had
befallen him, but which turned out so full of good for him.

&lsqb;DOLLY'S MONTHLY REGISTER.&rsqb;

But, if there had been any eye to see it, a very slow, and very sad
change was creeping over Dolly; so slowly indeed, that perhaps none but
her mother's eye could have seen it at first. On the first of every
month, which old Oliver knew by the magazines coming in, he marked how
much his little love had grown by placing her against the side-post of
the door, and making a thick pencil line where her curly head reached to.
He looked at this record often, smiling at the rate his little woman was
growing taller; but it was really no wonder that his dim eyes, loving as
they were, never saw how the rosy colour was dying away out of her
cheeks, as gradually as the red glow fades away in the west after the sun
has set, nor how the light grew fainter and fainter in her blue eyes,
until they looked at him very heavily from under her drooping eyelids.
The house was too dark for any sight to see very clearly; the full,
strong, healthy light of the sun, could not find its way into it, and day
after day Dolly became more like one of those plants growing in shady
places, which live and shoot up, but only put out pale and sickly leaves,
and feeble buds. One by one, and by little and little, with degrees as
small as her own tiny footsteps, she lost all her merry ways, dropping
them, here one and there another, upon the path she was silently
treading; as little children let fall the flowers they have gathered in
the meadows, along their road homewards. Yet all the time old Oliver was
loving and cherishing her as the dearest of all treasures, second only to
the Master whom he loved so fully; but he never discovered that there
was any change in her. Dolly fell into very quiet ways, and would sit
still for hours together, her arm around Beppo, and her sweet, patient
little face, which was growing thin and hollow, turned towards the
flickering light of the fire, while Oliver pottered toilsomely about his
house, forgetting many things, but always ready with a smile and a fond
word for his grand-daughter.

Just as Oliver was too old to feel any anxiety about Dolly, so Tony was
too young, and knew too little of sickness and death. Moreover, when he
came home in the evening, full of the business of the day, with a number
of stories to tell of what had happened to him, and what he had seen,
Dolly was always more lively, and had a feverish colour on her face, and
a brilliant light in her eyes. He seemed to bring life and strength with
him, and she liked him to nurse her on his knee, which did not grow tired
and stiff like her grandfather's. How should Tony detect anything amiss
with her? She never complained of feeling any pain, and he was glad for
her to be very quiet and still while he was busy with his lessons.

But when the summer was ended, and after the damp warm fogs of November
were over, and a keen, black frost set in sharply before Christmas -- a
frost which had none of the beauty of white lime and clear blue skies,
but which hung over the city like a pall, and penetrated to every
fireside with an icy breath; when only the strong and the healthy, who
were well clothed and well fed, could meet it bravely, while the
delicate, and sickly, and poverty-stricken, shrank before it, and were
chilled through and through, then Dolly drooped and failed altogether.
Even old Oliver's dull ears began to hear a little cough, which seemed to
echo from some grave not very far away; and when he drew his little love
between his knees, and put on his spectacles to gaze into her face, the
dearest face in all the world to him, even his eyes saw something of its
wanness, and the hollow lines which had come upon it since the summer had
passed away. The old man felt troubled about her, yet he scarcely knew
what to do. He bought sweetmeats to soothe her cough, and thought
sometimes that he must ask somebody or other about a doctor for her; but
his treacherous memory always let the thought slip out of his mind. He
intended to take counsel with his sister when she came to see him; but
aunt Charlotte was herself very ill with an attack of rheumatism, and
could not get up to old Oliver's house
The Christmas week passed by, and the new year came in, cold and bleak,
but Tony was well secured against the weather, and liked the frosty air,
which made it pleasant to run as fast as he could from place to place as
he delivered his parcels. When boxing day came, which was half-holiday
for him, he returned to the house at mid-day, carrying with him three
mince-pies, which he had felt himself rich enough to buy in honour of the
holiday. He had for a long time been reckoning upon shutting up shop for
the whole afternoon, and upon going out for a long stroll through the
streets with old Oliver and Dolly; and now that the hour was positively
come he felt very light-hearted and full of spirits, defying the wind
which wrestled with him at every turn. Dolly must be wrapped up well, he
said to himself, and old Oliver must put on his drab great coat, with
mother o' pearl buttons, which he had brought up from the country forty
years ago, and which was still good for keeping out the cold. He ran
down the alley, and passed through the shop whistling cheerily, and
disdaining to lift the flap of the counter, he took a running vault over
it, and landed at once inside the open kitchen-door.

But there was old Oliver sitting close to the fire, with Dolly on his
knee, and her little head lying upon his breast, while the tears trickled
slowly down his furrowed cheeks on to her pretty curls. Beppo was
standing between his legs, licking Dolly's small hand, which hung
languidly by her side. Her eyelids were closed, and her face was deadly
white; but when Tony uttered a great cry of trouble, and fell on his
knees before her, she opened her heavy eyes, and stretched out her cold
thin hand to stroke his cheeks
she
murmured
said the old
man, in a low and trembling voice
she answered faintly
said Tony, his heart beating fast
The little girl raised her arms to him, and Tony took her gently into his
own, sitting down upon the old box in the chimney-corner, and putting her
to nestle comfortably against him. Dolly closed her eyes again, and
by-and-bye he knew that she had fallen into a light sleep, while old
Oliver moved noiselessly to and fro, only now and then saying half aloud,
in a tone of strange earnestness and entreaty
After awhile the old man came and bent over them both, taking Dolly's arm
softly between his withered fingers, and looking down at it with a
shaking head
he said
answered Tony, in an energetic whisper, while he clasped Dolly a
little tighter in his arms
Old Oliver turned away comforted, and prepared his own and Tony's dinner,
and put a mince-pie into the oven to be ready to tempt Dolly's appetite
when she awoke. But she slept heavily all the afternoon till it was
almost dark outside, and the lamps were being lit, when she awoke,
restless and feverish
asked Tony, in a quavering voice which he could
scarcely keep from sobs
cried Dolly, eagerly, raising herself up in his arms
It was some time yet before they were quite ready to start, though Dolly
could not be coaxed to eat the hot mince-pie, or anything else. Old
Oliver had to get himself into his drab overcoat, and the ailing child
had to be protected in the best way they could against the searching
wind. After they had put on all her own warmest clothing, Tony wrapped
his own thick blue jacket about her, and lifting her very tenderly in his
arms, they turned out into the streets, closely followed by Beppo.

It was now quite night, but the streets were well lighted from the shop
windows, and throngs of people were hurrying hither and thither; for it
was boxing-night, and all the lower classes of the inhabitants were
taking holiday. But old Oliver saw and heard nothing of the crowd. He
walked on by Tony's side; with feeble and tottering steps, deaf and
blind, but whispering all the while, with trembling lips, to One whom no
one else could see or hear. Once or twice Tony saw a solemn smile flit
across his face, and he nodded his head and raised his hand, as one who
gives his assent to what is said to him. So they passed on through the
noisy streets till they reached quieter ones, were there were neither
shops nor many passers-by, and there they found the home where they were
going to leave their treasure for a time
Old Oliver rang the house-bell very quietly, for Dolly seemed to be
asleep again, and lay quite still in Tony's arms, which were growing
stiff, and benumbed by the cold. The door was opened by a porter, whose
face was strange to them both, for he had only come in for the day while
the usual one took holiday. Old Oliver presented himself in front, and
pointed at his little grandchild as Tony held her in his arms while he
spoke to the porter in a voice which trembled greatly
he said
answered the porter, filling up the doorway
repeated old Oliver, in a tone of questioning
he replied
continued old Oliver
said the porter
Old Oliver and Tony entered, and sat down upon a bench inside. There was
the broad staircase, with its shallow steps, which Dolly's tiny feet had
climbed so easily, and it led up to the warm, pleasant nurseries, where
little children were already falling asleep, almost painlessly, in their
cosy cots. Tony could not believe that there was not room for their
darling, who had been so willing to come to the place she knew so well,
yet a sob broke from his lips, which disturbed Dolly in her sleep, for
she moaned once or twice, and stirred uneasily in his arms. The old man
leaned his hands upon the top of his stick, and rested his white head
upon them, until they heard light footsteps, and the rustling of a
dress, and they saw a lady coming down stairs to them
said Oliver, his eye
wandering absently about the large entrance-hall
said the lady
answered old Oliver, very
mournfully
said Tony, eagerly
answered the lady
interrupted Tony, eagerly
said the lady, with tears in her eyes
She lifted up the collar of Tony's blue jacket, which covered Dolly's
face, and looked down at it pitifully. It was quite white now, and was
pinched and hollow, with large blue eyes shining too brightly. She
stretched out her arms to the lady, and made a great effort to smile
she murmured
cried the lady, the tears now running down her face
asked old Oliver
she answered, sobbing
repeated the old man, very sorrowfully
she answered
he said.

The lady shook her head without speaking, for she had her handkerchief up
to her face
cried old Oliver in a wailing voice
He made a sign to Tony that they must be going home again; and the boy
raised himself up with a strange weight and burden upon his heart. Old
Oliver put his stick down, and took Dolly into his own arms, and laid her
head down on his breast
he said
said the lady, wrapping Dolly up and
kissing her before she covered her pale face
answered old Oliver, feeling a
little comforted. But when they stood outside, and the bleak wind blew
about them, and he could see the soft glimmer of the light in the
windows, within which other children were safely sheltered and
carefully tended, his spirit sank again. He tottered now and then under
his light burden; but he could not be persuaded to give up his little
child to Tony again. These streets were quiet, with handsome houses on
each side, and from one and another there came bursts of music and
laughter as they passed by; yet Tony could catch most of the words
which the old man was speaking.

&lsqb;NO ROOM FOR DOLLY
he said
They reached home at last, after a weary and heartbroken journey, and
carried Dolly in and laid her upon old Oliver's bed. She was wide awake
now, and looked very peaceful, smiling quietly into both their faces as
they bent over her. Tony gazed deep down into her eyes, and met a glance
from them which sent a strange tremor through him. He crept silently
away, and stole into his dark bed under the counter, where he stretched
himself upon his face, and buried his mouth in the chaff pillow to choke
his sobs. What was going to happen to Dolly? What could it be that made
him afraid of looking again into her patient and tranquil little face
Tony lay there in the dark, overwhelmed by his unusual terror and sorrow,
until he heard the voice of old Oliver calling his name feebly. He
hurried to him, and found him still beside the bed where Dolly was lying.
He had taken off most of her clothes, and put her white nightgown over
the rest, that she might sleep warmly in them all the night, for her
little hands and feet felt very chilly to his touch. The fire had gone
out while they were away, and the grate looked very black and cheerless.
The room was in great disorder, just as they had left it, and the gas,
which was burning high, cast a cruel glare upon it all. But Tony saw
nothing except the dear face of Dolly, resting on one check upon the
pillow, with her curly hair tossed about it in confusion, and her open
eyes gathering a strange film. Beppo had made his way to her side, and
pushed his head under her lifeless little hand, which tried to pat it now
and then. Old Oliver was sitting on the bedstead, his eyes fastened upon
her, and his whole body trembled violently. Tony sank down upon his
knees, and flung his arm over Dolly, as if to save her from the unseen
power which threatened to take her away from them
she said, softly
cried old Oliver, moaning as he said it
asked Dolly, very faintly
he said
she asked, again
answered old Oliver
said the little child, solemnly.

She smiled for a minute or two, holding Beppo's ear between her failing
fingers, and playing with it. Tony's eyes were dim with tears, yet he
could see her clear face clearly through them. What could he do? Was
there no one to help
he cried
But old Oliver paid no heed to him. For the child who was passing away
from him he was all eye and ear, watching and listening as keenly as in
his best and strongest days; but he was blind and deaf to everything else
around him. Tony's voice could not reach his brain
whispered the failing and faltering voice of
Dolly
he answered; a radiant smile coming to his face, which made
her smile as her eyes caught the glory of it
she murmured, with long pauses between the
words, which seemed to drop one by one upon Tony's ear
Tony felt her stir restlessly under his arm, and stretch her tiny limbs
upon the bed as if she were very tired, and the languid eyelids drooped
slowly till they quite hid her blue eyes, and she sighed softly as
children sigh when they fall asleep, weary of their play. Old Oliver laid
his shaking hand tenderly upon her head
he said
It seemed to Tony as if a thick mist of darkness fell all about him, and
as if he were sinking down, down, very low into some horrible pit where
he would never see the light of day again. But by-and-bye he came to
himself, and found old Oliver sobbing in short, heavy sobs, and swaying
himself to and fro, while Beppo was licking Dolly's hand, and barking
with a sharp, quiet bark, as he had been wont to do when he wanted her to
play with him. The child's small features were quite still, but there was
an awful smile upon them such as there had never been before, and Tony
could not bear to look upon it. He crossed her tiny hands lightly over
one another upon her breast, and then he lifted Beppo away gently, and
drew the bed-clothes about her, so as to hide her smiling face
he cried
Old Oliver only answered by a deep moan; and Tony put his arm about him,
and raised him up
he said.

He yielded to Tony like a child, and seated himself in the chair, where
he had so often sat and watched Dolly while he smoked his pipe. The boy
put his pipe between his fingers; but he only let it fall to the ground,
where it broke into many pieces. Tony did not know what to do, nor where
to go for any help
he said
He sat down on his old box, staring at Oliver and the motionless form on
the bed, with a feeling of despair tugging at his heart. He could
scarcely believe it was all true; for it was not very long since -- only it
seemed like long years -- since he had leaped over the counter in his
light-heartedness. But he had not sat there many minutes before he heard
a distinct, rather loud knock at the shop-door, and he ran hastily to ask
who was there
said a voice he knew very well
In an instant Tony opened the door, and as Mr. Ross entered the boy flung
his arms round him, and hid his face against him, sobbing bitterly
he cried
The doctor and Mr. Ross went on into the inner room, and Tony pointed
silently to the bed where Dolly lay. Old Oliver roused himself at the
sound of strange voices, and, leaning upon Tony's shoulder, he staggered
to the bedside, and drew the clothes away from her dear, smiling face
he said
said Mr. Ross, leading him back to his chair
he answered, shaking his head
In an hour's time all was settled for that night. A little resting-place
had been made for the dead child in a corner of the room, where she lay
covered with a coarse white sheet, which was the last one left of those
which old Oliver's wife had spun in her girlhood. The old man had given
his promise to go to bed when Mr. Ross and the doctor were gone; and he
slept lightly, his face turned towards the place where his little love
was sleeping. A faint light burnt all night in the room, and Tony, who
could not fall asleep, sat in the chimney-corner, with Beppo upon his
knees. There was an unutterable, quiet sorrow within him, mingled with a
strange awe. That little child, who had played with him, and kissed him
only a day since, was already gone into the unseen world, which was so
very near to him now, though it had seemed so very far away and so empty
before. It must be very near, since she had gone to it so quickly; and
it was no longer empty, for Dolly was there; and she had said she would
watch at the door till he came home
Old Oliver and Tony saw their darling buried in a little grave in a
cemetery miles away from their own home, and then they returned, desolate
and bereaved, to the deserted city, which seemed empty indeed to them.
The house had never looked so very dark and dreary before. Yet from time
to time old Oliver forgot that Dolly was gone altogether, and could never
come back; for he would call her in his eager, quavering tones, or search
for her in some of the hiding-places, where she had often played at
hide-and-seek with him. When mealtimes came round he would put out
Dolly's plate and cup, which had been bought on purpose for her, with gay
flowers painted upon them; and in the evening, over his pipe, when he had
been used to talk to his Lord, he now very often said nothing but repeat
again and again Dolly's little prayer, which he had himself taught her
It was quite plain to Tony that it would
never do to leave him alone in his house and shop
he said to Mr. Ross
Tony found that they got along very well. Mr. Ross made a point of going
in to visit them every week, and of seeing how the business prospered in
the boy's hands; and he put as much as he could in his way. Sad and
sorrowful as the days were, they passed over, one after another, bringing
with them at least the habit of living without Dolly. Every Sunday
afternoon, however, old Oliver and Tony walked slowly through the
streets, for the old man could only creep along with Tony's help, till
they reached the Children's Hospital; but they never passed the door, nor
entered in through it. Old Oliver would stand for a few minutes leaning
heavily on Tony's shoulder, and trembling from head to foot, as his eyes
wandered over all the front of the building; and then a low, wailing cry
would break from his lips
It was a reopening of Tony's sorrow when Aunt Charlotte came up from the
country to find that the little child had gone away altogether, leaving
only her tiny frocks and clothes, which were neatly folded up in a
drawer, where old Oliver treasured up a keepsake or two of his wife's.
She discovered, too, that old Oliver had forgotten to write to
Susan,-- indeed, his hand had become too trembling to hold a pen,-- and she
wrote herself; but her letter did not reach Calcutta before Susan and her
husband had left it, being homeward bound.

It was as nearly two years as it could well be since the summer evening
when Susan Raleigh had sent her little girl into old Oliver's shop,
bidding her be a good girl till she came home, and thinking it would be
only three days before she saw her again. It was nearly two years, and an
evening something like it, when the door was darkened by the entrance of
a tall, fine-looking man, dressed as a soldier, but with one empty sleeve
looped up across his chest. Tony was busy behind the counter wrapping up
magazines, which he was going to take out the next morning, and the
soldier looked very inquisitively at him
he asked, in a tone of surprise
he said; for of late he had taken to call himself by
his old master's name
repeated the stranger
he answered
asked the soldier again
said Tony, in a faltering voice
exclaimed the man, looking ready to fall down; for his
face went very white, and he leaned upon the counter with his one hand
cried Tony
he said, after a minute or two, and
with a very troubled face
said Tony, lifting up the flap of the counter, under which
Dolly had so often played at hide-and-seek
Raleigh entered the room, and saw old Oliver sitting in his arm-chair,
with a pipe in his hand, and a very tranquil look upon his wrinkled face.
The gas-light shone upon the glittering epaulettes and white sash of the
soldier, and the old man fastened upon him a very keen, yet doubtful gaze
of inquiry
cried Raleigh, almost unable to utter a
word
repeated old Oliver, rising from his chair, and
resting his hand upon Raleigh's shoulder
he said, with a sob.

He put the old man back in his seat, and drew a chair close up to him.
They sat thus together in sorrowful silence for some minutes, until old
Oliver laid his hand upon the empty sleeve on Raleigh's breast
he said, pityingly
answered Raleigh
answered old Oliver
answered Raleigh
said old Oliver, keeping his hand still upon
the empty sleeve on Raleigh's breast
he continued
said Oliver questioningly
Another fit of silence fell upon them, and Tony left them together, for
it was time to put up the shop shutters. It seemed just like the night
when he had followed Susan and the little girl, and loitered outside in
the doorway opposite, to see what would happen after she had left her in
the shop. He fancied he was a ragged, shoeless boy again, nobody loving
him, or caring for him, and that he saw old Oliver and Dolly standing on
the step, looking out for the mother, who had gone away, never, never to
see her darling again. Tony's heart was very full; and when he tried to
whistle, he was obliged to give it up, lest he should break out into sobs
and crying. When he went back into the house Raleigh was talking again
he said
answered old Oliver, with a smile
upon his face.

Tony felt a strange and very painful shrinking at his heart. If the old
man went away to live with his daughter in the country, his home would be
lost to him, and he would have to go out into the great city again alone,
with nobody to love. He could get his living now in a respectable manner,
and there was no fear of his being driven to sleep in Covent Garden, or
under the bridges. But he would be alone, and all the links which bound
him to Dolly and old Oliver would be snapped asunder. He wondered if the
Lord Jesus would let such a thing be
cried old Oliver, suddenly; and putting on
his spectacles to look for him
Old Oliver had put his arm round Tony, drawing him closer and closer to
him as he spoke, until his withered cheek pressed fondly against his
face. Since Dolly died neither of them had felt such a thrill of
happiness as now
said Raleigh, after
he had heard all that Tony had been and done for old Oliver; and when he
was obliged to go away for the night, the soldier gave him such a cordial
grasp of the hand, as set all his fingers tingling, and his heart
throbbing with exultation
The lodge stood in a very lovely place, upon a slope of ground, which
rose still higher to where the colonel's grand house was situated. There
was a porch before the door, built of rough logs of pines, covered with
ivy and honeysuckle, and with seats in it, where you could sit and look
out over a wide, rich plain, with little hills and dales in it,
stretching far away towards the sky-line, where some distant mountains
lay, so like to clouds, that you could scarcely tell which were soft and
misty vapours, and which were solid and everlasting hills. The Severn ran
through the beautiful plain with so many windings, sometimes lying in
shadow under deep banks, and sometimes glistening and sparkling in the
sunlight, that it looked more like many little pools scattered about the
meadows than one long, continuous river. Not very far away, as Raleigh
had said, stood the Wrekin, purple in the evening haze, but by day so
plain, that one could see the great rock on its summit, which in olden
times served as an altar to the god of fire.

Susan was very busy, and had been very busy all day over two
things -- preparing the house for the reception of her father, whom she had
not seen for so many years, and in teaching her little girl, who was now
eighteen months old, to say grand-pa. The one work was quite finished;
everything was ready for old Oliver, and now she was waiting and watching
to see the colonel's spring cart arrive from the station with her
husband, who was gone to meet old Oliver and Tony. For Tony was not on
any account to be parted from the old man -- so said the colonel and his
lady -- but was to be employed about the garden, and as general errand boy
for the house, and to live at the lodge with old Oliver. Susan's eyes
were red, for as she had been busy about her work, she had several times
cried bitterly over her lost little girl; but she had resolved within
herself not to shed a single tear after her father was come, lest she
should spoil the gladness of his coming home to her. At last the cart
came in sight, and stopped, and Raleigh and Tony sprang out to help
Oliver to get down, while Susan put down Polly in the porch, and ran to
throw her arms round her dear old father's neck.

He was very quiet, poor old Oliver. He had not spoken a word since he
left the station, but had gazed about him as they drove along the
pleasant lane with almost a troubled look upon his tranquil face. When
his dim eyes caught the first glimpse of the Wrekin he lifted his hat
from his white and trembling head, as if to greet it like some great and
dear friend, after so many years of absence. Now he stood still at the
wicket, leaning upon Susan's arm, and looking round him again with a
gentle yet sad smile. The air was so fresh, after the close streets of
London, that to him it seemed even full of scents of numberless flowers;
and the sun was shining everywhere, upon the blossoms in the garden, and
the fine old elm-trees in the park, and the far-off hills. He grasped
Tony's hand in his, and bade him look well about him
he said, with a
mournful and tender patience in his feeble voice.

But just then -- scarcely had he finished speaking -- there came a shrill,
merry little scream behind them, so like Dolly's, that both old Oliver
and Tony turned round quickly. It could not be the same, for this little
child was even smaller than Dolly; but as she came pattering and
tottering down the garden-walk towards them, they saw that she had the
same fair curly hair, and blue eyes, and rosy cheeks that Dolly had had
two years before. She ran and hid her face in her mother's gown; but
Susan lifted her into her arms, and held her towards old Oliver
she said, coaxingly.

The little child held back shyly for a minute, for old Oliver's head was
shaking much more than usual now; but at length she put her two soft
little hands to his face, and held it between them, while she kissed him
she cried, crowing and chuckling with delight.

They went indoors to the pleasant parlour, where old Oliver's arm-chair
was set ready for him by the side of the fire, for Susan had kindled a
fire, saying that he would feel the fresh air blowing from the Wrekin;
and Polly sat first on his knee, and then upon Tony's, who could not keep
his eyes from following all her movements. But still it was not their own
Dolly who had made the old house in the close alley in London so happy
and so merry for them. She was gone home to the Father's house, and was
watching for them there. Tony might be a long time before he joined her,
but for old Oliver the parting would be but short. As he sat in the
evening dusk, very peacefully and contentedly, while Susan sang Polly to
sleep in the kitchen, Tony heard him say half aloud, as his custom was
</text>
