<text>
TO
          Dr Wallis Budge
          of the British Museum as a
          small token of gratitude for his
          unfailing kindness and help
          in the making of it
There were once four children who spent their summer holidays in a white
house, happily situated between a sandpit and a chalkpit. One day they
had the good fortune to find in the sandpit a strange creature. Its eyes
were on long horns like snail's eyes, and it could move them in and out
like telescopes. It had ears like a bat's ears, and its tubby body was
shaped like a spider's and covered with thick soft fur -- and it had hands
and feet like a monkey's. It told the children -- whose names were
Cyril, Robert, Anthea, and Jane -- that it was a Psammead or sand-fairy.
(Psammead is pronounced Sammy-ad.) It was old, old, old, and its
birthday was almost at the very beginning of everything. And it had
been buried in the sand for thousands of years. But it still kept its
fairylikeness, and part of this fairylikeness was its power to give
people whatever they wished for. You know fairies have always been able
to do this. Cyril, Robert, Anthea, and Jane now found their wishes come
true; but, somehow, they never could think of just the right things to
wish for, and their wishes sometimes turned out very oddly indeed. In
the end their unwise wishings landed them in what Robert called
and the Psammead consented to help them out of it
in return for their promise never never to ask it to grant them any more
wishes, and never to tell anyone about it, because it did not want to
be bothered to give wishes to anyone ever any more. At the moment of
parting Jane said politely
And the Psammead, touched by this friendly thought, granted the wish.
The book about all this is called Five Children and It, and it ends up
in a most tiresome way by saying
The reason that nothing more could be said was that I had not then been
able to find out exactly when and where the children met the Psammead
again. Of course I knew they would meet it, because it was a beast of
its word, and when it said a thing would happen, that thing happened
without fail. How different from the people who tell us about what
weather it is going to be on Thursday next, in London, the South Coast,
and Channel!

The summer holidays during which the Psammead had been found and
the wishes given had been wonderful holidays in the country, and the
children had the highest hopes of just such another holiday for the next
summer. The winter holidays were beguiled by the wonderful happenings
of The Phoenix and the Carpet, and the loss of these two treasures would
have left the children in despair, but for the splendid hope of their
next holiday in the country. The world, they felt, and indeed had some
reason to feel, was full of wonderful things -- and they were really the
sort of people that wonderful things happen to. So they looked forward
to the summer holiday; but when it came everything was different, and
very, very horrid. Father had to go out to Manchuria to telegraph news
about the war to the tiresome paper he wrote for -- the Daily Bellower,
or something like that, was its name. And Mother, poor dear Mother, was
away in Madeira, because she had been very ill. And The Lamb -- I mean the
baby -- was with her. And Aunt Emma, who was Mother's sister, had suddenly
married Uncle Reginald, who was Father's brother, and they had gone to
China, which is much too far off for you to expect to be asked to spend
the holidays in, however fond your aunt and uncle may be of you. So
the children were left in the care of old Nurse, who lived in Fitzroy
Street, near the British Museum, and though she was always very kind to
them, and indeed spoiled them far more than would be good for the most
grown-up of us, the four children felt perfectly wretched, and when
the cab had driven off with Father and all his boxes and guns and the
sheepskin, with blankets and the aluminium mess-kit inside it, the
stoutest heart quailed, and the girls broke down altogether, and sobbed
in each other's arms, while the boys each looked out of one of the long
gloomy windows of the parlour, and tried to pretend that no boy would be
such a muff as to cry.

I hope you notice that they were not cowardly enough to cry till their
Father had gone; they knew he had quite enough to upset him without
that. But when he was gone everyone felt as if it had been trying not to
cry all its life, and that it must cry now, if it died for it. So they
cried.

Tea -- with shrimps and watercress -- cheered them a little. The watercress
was arranged in a hedge round a fat glass salt-cellar, a tasteful device
they had never seen before. But it was not a cheerful meal.

After tea Anthea went up to the room that had been Father's, and when
she saw how dreadfully he wasn't there, and remembered how every minute
was taking him further and further from her, and nearer and nearer to
the guns of the Russians, she cried a little more. Then she thought of
Mother, ill and alone, and perhaps at that very moment wanting a little
girl to put eau-de-cologne on her head, and make her sudden cups of tea,
and she cried more than ever. And then she remembered what Mother had
said, the night before she went away, about Anthea being the eldest
girl, and about trying to make the others happy, and things like that.
So she stopped crying, and thought instead. And when she had thought as
long as she could bear she washed her face and combed her hair, and went
down to the others, trying her best to look as though crying were an
exercise she had never even heard of.

She found the parlour in deepest gloom, hardly relieved at all by
the efforts of Robert, who, to make the time pass, was pulling Jane's
hair -- not hard, but just enough to tease
said Anthea
This word dated from
the awful day when Cyril had carelessly wished that there were Red
Indians in England -- and there had been. The word brought back memories
of last summer holidays and everyone groaned; they thought of the white
house with the beautiful tangled garden -- late roses, asters, marigold,
sweet mignonette, and feathery asparagus -- of the wilderness which
someone had once meant to make into an orchard, but which was now,
as Father said
It was. Old Nurse had been in the habit of letting lodgings, till Father
gave her the children to take care of. And her rooms were furnished 'for
letting'. Now it is a very odd thing that no one ever seems to furnish
a room 'for letting' in a bit the same way as one would furnish it for
living in. This room had heavy dark red stuff curtains -- the colour that
blood would not make a stain on -- with coarse lace curtains inside. The
carpet was yellow, and violet, with bits of grey and brown oilcloth in
odd places. The fireplace had shavings and tinsel in it. There was
a very varnished mahogany chiffonier, or sideboard, with a lock that
wouldn't act. There were hard chairs -- far too many of them -- with crochet
antimacassars slipping off their seats, all of which sloped the wrong
way. The table wore a cloth of a cruel green colour with a yellow
chain-stitch pattern round it. Over the fireplace was a looking-glass
that made you look much uglier than you really were, however plain you
might be to begin with. Then there was a mantelboard with maroon plush
and wool fringe that did not match the plush; a dreary clock like a
black marble tomb -- it was silent as the grave too, for it had long since
forgotten how to tick. And there were painted glass vases that never had
any flowers in, and a painted tambourine that no one ever played, and
painted brackets with nothing on them
There were two books -- last December's Bradshaw, and an odd volume of
Plumridge's Commentary on Thessalonians. There were -- but I cannot
dwell longer on this painful picture. It was indeed, as Jane said, very
different
said Anthea again
said Cyril, yawning
said Robert kicking the leg of
the table miserably
said Jane, and her tone was grumpy.

Anthea tried very hard not to be cross. She succeeded
she said
said Cyril without enthusiasm
Jane sniffed miserably
said Anthea in a hurry
Jane sniffed harder than before
said Robert
said Jane unexpectedly
cried Cyril, now roused at last from
his yawning despair
So they went, old Nurse only begging them to be careful of crossings,
and to ask a policeman to assist in the more difficult cases. But they
were used to crossings, for they had lived in Camden Town and knew the
Kentish Town Road where the trams rush up and down like mad at all hours
of the day and night, and seem as though, if anything, they would rather
run over you than not.

They had promised to be home by dark, but it was July, so dark would be
very late indeed, and long past bedtime.

They started to walk to St James's Park, and all their pockets were
stuffed with bits of bread and the crusts of toast, to feed the ducks
with. They started, I repeat, but they never got there.

Between Fitzroy Street and St James's Park there are a great many
streets, and, if you go the right way you will pass a great many shops
that you cannot possibly help stopping to look at. The children stopped
to look at several with gold-lace and beads and pictures and jewellery
and dresses, and hats, and oysters and lobsters in their windows, and
their sorrow did not seem nearly so impossible to bear as it had done in
the best parlour at No. 300, Fitzroy Street.

Presently, by some wonderful chance turn of Robert's (who had been voted
Captain because the girls thought it would be good for him -- and indeed
he thought so himself -- and of course Cyril couldn't vote against him
because it would have looked like a mean jealousy), they came into the
little interesting criss-crossy streets that held the most interesting
shops of all -- the shops where live things were sold. There was one shop
window entirely filled with cages, and all sorts of beautiful birds in
them. The children were delighted till they remembered how they had once
wished for wings themselves, and had had them -- and then they felt how
desperately unhappy anything with wings must be if it is shut up in a
cage and not allowed to fly
said Cyril
They went on, and Cyril tried to think out a scheme for making his
fortune as a gold-digger at Klondyke, and then buying all the caged
birds in the world and setting them free. Then they came to a shop that
sold cats, but the cats were in cages, and the children could not help
wishing someone would buy all the cats and put them on hearthrugs, which
are the proper places for cats. And there was the dog-shop, and that was
not a happy thing to look at either, because all the dogs were chained
or caged, and all the dogs, big and little, looked at the four children
with sad wistful eyes and wagged beseeching tails as if they were trying
to say
They almost said
plain to the ear, as they whined; all but one big Irish
terrier, and he growled when Jane patted him
he seemed to say, as he looked at them from the back corner
of his eye
I don't know that the children would have understood all this, only once
they had been in a besieged castle, so they knew how hateful it is to be
kept in when you want to get out.

Of course they could not buy any of the dogs. They did, indeed, ask the
price of the very, very smallest, and it was sixty-five pounds -- but that
was because it was a Japanese toy spaniel like the Queen once had her
portrait painted with, when she was only Princess of Wales. But the
children thought, if the smallest was all that money, the biggest would
run into thousands -- so they went on.

And they did not stop at any more cat or dog or bird shops, but passed
them by, and at last they came to a shop that seemed as though it only
sold creatures that did not much mind where they were -- such as goldfish
and white mice, and sea-anemones and other aquarium beasts, and
lizards and toads, and hedgehogs and tortoises, and tame rabbits
and guinea-pigs. And there they stopped for a long time, and fed the
guinea-pigs with bits of bread through the cage-bars, and wondered
whether it would be possible to keep a sandy-coloured double-lop in the
basement of the house in Fitzroy Street
said Jane
said Cyril
There aren't any snakes, said Robert hastily
said Anthea
said
Robert
said Anthea
said Jane with a shudder
They stood there on the pavement, a cause of some inconvenience to
the passersby, and thus beguiled the time with conversation. Cyril was
leaning his elbow on the top of a hutch that had seemed empty when they
had inspected the whole edifice of hutches one by one, and he was trying
to reawaken the interest of a hedgehog that had curled itself into a
ball earlier in the interview, when a small, soft voice just below his
elbow said, quietly, plainly and quite unmistakably -- not in any squeak
or whine that had to be translated -- but in downright common English
Cyril started as though he had been pinched, and jumped a yard away from
the hutch
said the voice, rather louder but still
softly
Cyril mechanically obeyed. He knelt on one knee on the dry, hot dusty
pavement, peered into the darkness of the hutch and found himself face
to face with -- the Psammead!

It seemed much thinner than when he had last seen it. It was dusty and
dirty, and its fur was untidy and ragged. It had hunched itself up into
a miserable lump, and its long snail's eyes were drawn in quite tight so
that they hardly showed at all
said the Psammead, in a voice that sounded as though it would
begin to cry in a minute
It sniffed, and shot out its
long snail's eyes expressly to drop a tear well away from its fur
Cyril tied his bootlace into a hard knot, stood up and
addressed the others in firm tones
he said
an
appeal which in this family was never made in vain
He stood in front of it to prevent mistakes
The others responded nobly. They looked at the white rat till they quite
stared him out of countenance, so that he went and sat up on his hind
legs in a far corner and hid his eyes with his front paws, and pretended
he was washing his face.

Cyril stooped again, busying himself with the other bootlace and
listened for the Psammead's further instructions
said the Psammead
said the bewildered Cyril
said the Sand-fairy in trembling but
affectionate tones
Cyril, pointing a stiff and unmeaning finger at the white rat, so as to
pretend that its charms alone employed his tongue, explained matters to
the others, while the Psammead hunched itself, and bunched itself,
and did its very best to make itself look uninteresting. Then the four
children filed into the shop
asked Cyril
was the answer
said the greasy owner of all this caged life
with a sudden ferocity which made the whole party back hurriedly on to
the wainscoting of hutches with which the shop was lined
to have you a comin' in here a turnin' the whole place
outer winder, an' prizing every animile in the stock just for your
larks, so don't think it! If you're a buyer, BE a buyer -- but I never
had a customer yet as wanted to buy mice, and lizards, and toads, and
guineas all at once. So hout you goes
said the wretched Cyril, feeling how foolishly yet
well-meaningly he had carried out the Psammead's instructions
The shopman only saw in this a new insult
said he
said Jane, losing her head altogether
Ho! does
sneered the merchant. Then he scratched his ear
suspiciously, for he was a sharp business man, and he knew the ring of
truth when he heard it. His hand was bandaged, and three minutes
before he would have been glad to sell the 'mangy old monkey' for ten
shillings. Now --'Ho! 'e does, does
he said
The children looked at each other -- twenty-three shillings and fivepence
was all they had in the world, and it would have been merely three and
fivepence, but for the sovereign which Father had given to them 'between
them' at parting
said Cyril, rattling the money in his pocket
said the dealer, for
he did not believe that Cyril had so much money.

There was a miserable pause. Then Anthea remembered, and said
said the man with bitter politeness; 'I wish
you
Anthea's hand was on the counter, something seemed to slide under it.
She lifted it. There lay five bright half sovereigns
she said
The dealer looked hard at the money, but he made haste to put it in his
pocket
he said, shrugging his shoulders.
He scratched his ear again
he said
He slowly led the way out to the hutch -- opened the door gingerly,
and made a sudden fierce grab at the Psammead, which the Psammead
acknowledged in one last long lingering bite
said the shopman, squeezing the Psammead so
tight that he nearly choked it
The man's eyes opened as Anthea held out her arms
he said, and the
Psammead made a leap from his dirty horny hands, and Anthea caught it
in hers, which were not very clean, certainly, but at any rate were soft
and pink, and held it kindly and closely
Cyril said
and indeed two errand boys and a policeman had already
collected
said the man grudgingly.

So the whole party went into the shop, and the shopman's eyes nearly
came out of his head when, having given Anthea the largest paper-bag he
could find, he saw her hold it open, and the Psammead carefully creep
into it
he said
said Cyril affably
the man rejoined, 'you shouldn't a had him under
twice the money
he added, as the children disappeared
The children trembling in agitation and excitement, carried home the
Psammead, trembling in its paper-bag.

When they got it home, Anthea nursed it, and stroked it, and would have
cried over it, if she hadn't remembered how it hated to be wet.

When it recovered enough to speak, it said
They got the sand, and they put it and the Psammead in the round bath
together, and it rubbed itself, and rolled itself, and shook itself and
scraped itself, and scratched itself, and preened itself, till it felt
clean and comfy, and then it scrabbled a hasty hole in the sand, and
went to sleep in it.

The children hid the bath under the girls' bed, and had supper. Old
Nurse had got them a lovely supper of bread and butter and fried onions.
She was full of kind and delicate thoughts.

When Anthea woke the next morning, the Psammead was snuggling down
between her shoulder and Jane's
it said
asked Anthea
it said
With these words it clambered down by the bedclothes and
scrambled back into the bath, where they heard it scratching itself out
of sight
said Anthea
said Jane, beginning to put on her stockings
said Anthea
Long ago -- that is to say last summer -- the children, finding themselves
embarrassed by some wish which the Psammead had granted them, and which
the servants had not received in a proper spirit, had wished that the
servants might not notice the gifts which the Psammead gave. And when
they parted from the Psammead their last wish had been that they should
meet it again. Therefore they HAD met it (and it was jolly lucky for
the Psammead, as Robert pointed out). Now, of course, you see that
the Psammead's being where it was, was the consequence of one of their
wishes, and therefore was a Psammead-wish, and as such could not be
noticed by the servants. And it was soon plain that in the Psammead's
opinion old Nurse was still a servant, although she had now a house
of her own, for she never noticed the Psammead at all. And that was as
well, for she would never have consented to allow the girls to keep an
animal and a bath of sand under their bed.

When breakfast had been cleared away -- it was a very nice breakfast with
hot rolls to it, a luxury quite out of the common way -- Anthea went and
dragged out the bath, and woke the Psammead.

It stretched and shook itself
it said
said Anthea
said the Psammead, sitting back on the sand and
shooting out its long eyes suddenly
Anthea pleaded
She knelt before the sand-bath and held out her arms. The Psammead must
have remembered how glad it had been to jump into those same little arms
only the day before, for it gave a little grudging grunt, and jumped
once more.

Anthea wrapped it in her pinafore and carried it downstairs. It was
welcomed in a thrilling silence. At last Anthea said
asked the Psammead, shooting its eyes out and
turning them slowly round
said Robert
said the Psammead
said Anthea kindly
It looked keenly at her, and she blushed
it said sharply
said Jane
said the Psammead
Anthea was beginning but it interrupted her
it said
said Cyril
said the Psammead
said Anthea
The others all said yes -- and fidgeted in their chairs. Robert spoke the
wishes of all when he said
So it sat up on the green-covered table and
went on
it said
Jane repeated
Jane yawned; the mention of bed made her feel sleepy
said the Psammead, in offended tones
said Cyril regretfully
Merely from habit, the Sand-fairy began to blow itself out, but it
stopped short suddenly
it said
said Cyril
said the Psammead
said Robert
said the creature
said Jane
And Jane began to cry
said the Psammead hastily
said the creature
The children looked at each other and then at the Psammead. Then Cyril
coughed awkwardly and took sudden courage to say what everyone was
thinking
he said
said the Psammead crossly
said Anthea
she went on
said the Psammead
said everybody; and Jane added
said the Psammead
So everybody got its hat. The Psammead was put into a flat bass-bag that
had come from Farringdon Market with two pounds of filleted plaice in
it. Now it contained about three pounds and a quarter of solid Psammead,
and the children took it in turns to carry it
Robert said, and the girls
sighed.

The Psammead poked a wary eye out of the top of the basket every now and
then, and told the children which turnings to take
asked Robert
And the Psammead said sharply
At last they came to THE shop. It had all sorts and kinds of things
in the window -- concertinas, and silk handkerchiefs, china vases and
tea-cups, blue Japanese jars, pipes, swords, pistols, lace collars,
silver spoons tied up in half-dozens, and wedding-rings in a red
lacquered basin. There were officers' epaulets and doctors' lancets.
There were tea-caddies inlaid with red turtle-shell and brass
curly-wurlies, plates of different kinds of money, and stacks of
different kinds of plates. There was a beautiful picture of a little
girl washing a dog, which Jane liked very much. And in the middle of
the window there was a dirty silver tray full of mother-of-pearl card
counters, old seals, paste buckles, snuff-boxes, and all sorts of little
dingy odds and ends.

The Psammead put its head quite out of the fish-basket to look in the
window, when Cyril said
And then its long snail's eyes saw something that made them stretch out
so much that they were as long and thin as new slate-pencils. Its fur
bristled thickly, and its voice was quite hoarse with excitement as it
whispered
asked Cyril
said the Psammead
it said to Anthea
So the others flattened their noses against the shop window, and
presently a large, dirty, short-fingered hand with a very big diamond
ring came stretching through the green half-curtains at the back of the
shop window and took away the tray.

They could not see what was happening in the interview between Anthea
and the Diamond Ring, and it seemed to them that she had had time -- if
she had had money -- to buy everything in the shop before the moment came
when she stood before them, her face wreathed in grins, as Cyril said
later, and in her hand the charm.

It was something like this: &lsqb;Drawing omitted.&rsqb; and it was made of a red,
smooth, softly shiny stone
Anthea whispered, just opening her hand to give the
others a glimpse of it
So home they went. The parlour in Fitzroy Street was a very flat
background to magic happenings. Down in the country among the flowers
and green fields anything had seemed -- and indeed had been -- possible. But
it was hard to believe that anything really wonderful could happen so
near the Tottenham Court Road. But the Psammead was there -- and it in
itself was wonderful. And it could talk -- and it had shown them where a
charm could be bought that would make the owner of it perfectly happy.
So the four children hurried home, taking very long steps, with their
chins stuck out, and their mouths shut very tight indeed. They went so
fast that the Psammead was quite shaken about in its fish-bag, but it
did not say anything -- perhaps for fear of attracting public notice.

They got home at last, very hot indeed, and set the Psammead on the
green tablecloth
said Cyril.

But the Psammead had to have a plate of sand fetched for it, for it was
quite faint. When it had refreshed itself a little it said
and Anthea laid it on the green
table-cover. The Psammead shot out his long eyes to look at it, then it
turned them reproachfully on Anthea and said
This was indeed a blow
said Anthea, with timid firmness. She knew it
was not her fault
said the Psammead
said everyone and the Psammead altogether.

Then there was a wretched silence. Cyril broke it
said
the Psammead
So Cyril went to the shop. And the Psammead to sand. And the other three
went to dinner, which was now ready. And old Nurse was very cross that
Cyril was not ready too.

The three were watching at the windows when Cyril returned, and even
before he was near enough for them to see his face there was something
about the slouch of his shoulders and set of his knickerbockers and
the way he dragged his boots along that showed but too plainly that his
errand had been in vain
they all said, hoping against hope on the front-door step
Cyril answered
It was plain that Cyril was not pleased.

The unlikeliness of anything really interesting happening in that
parlour lay like a weight of lead on everyone's spirits. Cyril had his
dinner, and just as he was swallowing the last mouthful of apple-pudding
there was a scratch at the door. Anthea opened it and in walked the
Psammead
it said, when it had heard the news
was the general reply
said the Psammead
As the children settled themselves on the floor -- it was far more
comfortable than the chairs, as well as more polite to the Psammead, who
was stroking its whiskers on the hearth-rug -- a sudden cold pain caught
at Anthea's heart. Father -- Mother -- the darling Lamb -- all far away. Then
a warm, comfortable feeling flowed through her. The Psammead was here,
and at least half a charm, and there were to be adventures. (If you
don't know what a cold pain is, I am glad for your sakes, and I hope you
never may
said the Psammead cheerily
said everyone
said the Psammead
it broke off to say
Robert yawned.

The Psammead went on
said the children, quite without enthusiasm
said Cyril
said Jane, but not with much
interest
said Robert
retorted the Psammead tartly
said Cyril
Anthea ventured
She appealed to the Psammead. It nodded
it said
This seemed a brilliant prospect till Robert asked
The Psammead shook its head and answered
said Robert
said the Psammead briskly
Jane questioned. Jane's question did not mean that she thought
it couldn't, for in spite of the parlour furniture the feeling of magic
was growing deeper and thicker, and seemed to fill the room like a dream
of a scented fog
Everyone was rather hurt at the question
There was a silence. The red charm was passed from hand to hand
said Cyril at last
said the Psammead
said Cyril
This was what was on the charm: &lsqb;Hieroglyphics omitted
said the Psammead
said Anthea
The Psammead stamped a furry foot angrily
it said
said Anthea
said the Psammead
So the four children hastily washed their hands and brushed their
hair -- this was Anthea's idea -- and went up to knock at the door of the
'poor learned gentleman', and to
The learned gentleman had let his dinner get quite cold. It was mutton
chop, and as it lay on the plate it looked like a brown island in the
middle of a frozen pond, because the grease of the gravy had become
cold, and consequently white. It looked very nasty, and it was the first
thing the children saw when, after knocking three times and receiving
no reply, one of them ventured to turn the handle and softly to open the
door. The chop was on the end of a long table that ran down one side of
the room. The table had images on it and queer-shaped stones, and books.
And there were glass cases fixed against the wall behind, with little
strange things in them. The cases were rather like the ones you see in
jewellers' shops.

The 'poor learned gentleman' was sitting at a table in the window,
looking at something very small which he held in a pair of fine pincers.
He had a round spy-glass sort of thing in one eye -- which reminded
the children of watchmakers, and also of the long snail's eyes of the
Psammead. The gentleman was very long and thin, and his long, thin boots
stuck out under the other side of his table. He did not hear the door
open, and the children stood hesitating. At last Robert gave the door a
push, and they all started back, for in the middle of the wall that the
door had hidden was a mummy-case -- very, very, very big -- painted in red
and yellow and green and black, and the face of it seemed to look at
them quite angrily.

You know what a mummy-case is like, of course? If you don't you had
better go to the British Museum at once and find out. Anyway, it is not
at all the sort of thing that you expect to meet in a top-floor front
in Bloomsbury, looking as though it would like to know what business YOU
had there.

So everyone said
rather loud, and their boots clattered as they
stumbled back.

The learned gentleman took the glass out of his eye and said
in a very soft, quiet pleasant voice -- the voice of a
gentleman who has been to Oxford
said Cyril politely
said the gentleman, rising -- with the most distinguished
courtesy, Anthea told herself
He cleared a chair, and stood smiling and looking kindly through his
large, round spectacles
whispered Robert
said Anthea
said Cyril politely
said the gentleman
said Robert, as the gentleman
cleared three more chairs. He put the things off them carefully on the
floor. The first chair had things like bricks that tiny, tiny birds'
feet have walked over when the bricks were soft, only the marks were in
regular lines. The second chair had round things on it like very large,
fat, long, pale beads. And the last chair had a pile of dusty papers on
it. The children sat down
said Cyril
said the gentleman politely
said Cyril blushing
The gentleman took off his
spectacles and laughed. His laugh sounded rusty, Cyril thought, as
though it wasn't often used
he said
said the
truthful Anthea
Robert interjected
said Anthea
said the gentleman, with gentle
nervousness
said Cyril
The gentleman had put on his spectacles again and was looking at Cyril
through them. He now said
more than once, adding
said Cyril
Some faint memory of a far-off childhood must have come to the learned
gentleman just then, for he smiled
he said
said Cyril; and Anthea said
and held it out.

With politeness, but without interest, the gentleman took it. But after
the first glance all his body suddenly stiffened, as a pointer's does
when he sees a partridge
he said in quite a changed voice, and carried the charm to
the window. He looked at it; he turned it over. He fixed his spy-glass
in his eye and looked again. No one said anything. Only Robert made a
shuffling noise with his feet till Anthea nudged him to shut up. At last
the learned gentleman drew a long breath
he asked
said Cyril
added Jane.

'It is not for sale, I suppose? You do not wish to part with it?

I ought to tell you that it is extremely valuable -- extraordinarily
valuable, I may say
said Cyril
said the gentleman impressively
said Cyril
said the
gentleman
said Anthea earnestly
said the gentleman
repeated Cyril
said the gentleman
They said 'Thank you' in all the different polite ways they could think
of, and filed out of the door and down the stairs. Anthea was last.
Half-way down to the first landing she turned and ran up again.

The door was still open, and the learned gentleman and the mummy-case
were standing opposite to each other, and both looked as though they had
stood like that for years.

The gentleman started when Anthea put her hand on his arm
she said,
'but do look at your chop! Don't you think you ought to eat it? Father
forgets his dinner sometimes when he's writing, and Mother always says I
ought to remind him if she's not at home to do it herself, because it's
so bad to miss your regular meals.

So I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind my reminding you, because you
don't seem to have anyone else to do it.'

She glanced at the mummy-case; IT certainly did not look as though it
would ever think of reminding people of their meals.

The learned gentleman looked at her for a moment before he said
He sighed, and looked at the chop
said Anthea
he said
As he ate it he sighed more than once. Perhaps because the chop was
nasty, perhaps because he longed for the charm which the children did
not want to sell, perhaps because it was so long since anyone cared
whether he ate his chops or forgot them.

Anthea caught the others at the stair-foot. They woke the Psammead, and
it taught them exactly how to use the word of power, and to make the
charm speak. I am not going to tell you how this is done, because you
might try to do it. And for you any such trying would be almost sure
to end in disappointment. Because in the first place it is a thousand
million to one against your ever getting hold of the right sort of
charm, and if you did, there would be hardly any chance at all of your
finding a learned gentleman clever enough and kind enough to read the
word for you.

The children and the Psammead crouched in a circle on the floor -- in the
girls' bedroom, because in the parlour they might have been interrupted
by old Nurse's coming in to lay the cloth for tea -- and the charm was put
in the middle of the circle.

The sun shone splendidly outside, and the room was very light. Through
the open window came the hum and rattle of London, and in the street
below they could hear the voice of the milkman.

When all was ready, the Psammead signed to Anthea to say the word. And
she said it. Instantly the whole light of all the world seemed to go
out. The room was dark. The world outside was dark -- darker than the
darkest night that ever was. And all the sounds went out too, so that
there was a silence deeper than any silence you have ever even dreamed
of imagining. It was like being suddenly deaf and blind, only darker and
quieter even than that.

But before the children had got over the sudden shock of it enough to be
frightened, a faint, beautiful light began to show in the middle of the
circle, and at the same moment a faint, beautiful voice began to speak.
The light was too small for one to see anything by, and the voice was
too small for you to hear what it said. You could just see the light and
just hear the voice.

But the light grew stronger. It was greeny, like glow-worms' lamps,
and it grew and grew till it was as though thousands and thousands of
glow-worms were signalling to their winged sweethearts from the middle
of the circle. And the voice grew, not so much in loudness as in
sweetness (though it grew louder, too), till it was so sweet that
you wanted to cry with pleasure just at the sound of it. It was like
nightingales, and the sea, and the fiddle, and the voice of your mother
when you have been a long time away, and she meets you at the door when
you get home.

And the voice said
I cannot tell you what language the voice used. I only know that
everyone present understood it perfectly. If you come to think of it,
there must be some language that everyone could understand, if we only
knew what it was. Nor can I tell you how the charm spoke, nor whether
it was the charm that spoke, or some presence in the charm. The children
could not have told you either. Indeed, they could not look at the charm
while it was speaking, because the light was too bright. They looked
instead at the green radiance on the faded Kidderminster carpet at the
edge of the circle. They all felt very quiet, and not inclined to ask
questions or fidget with their feet. For this was not like the things
that had happened in the country when the Psammead had given them their
wishes. That had been funny somehow, and this was not. It was something
like Arabian Nights magic, and something like being in church. No one
cared to speak.

It was Cyril who said at last
said the beautiful voice
murmured Robert, and a blank silence fell
said Cyril at last
said the voice
said Cyril
said the voice
said Cyril.

The Psammead whispered crossly
said Cyril
said the Psammead
said Anthea
asked Cyril obediently
said the voice
asked Anthea
The beautiful voice answered
This is what the voice said. I think it must have meant Napoleon by the
small man, the conqueror. Because I know I have been told that he took
an army to Egypt, and that afterwards a lot of wise people went grubbing
in the sand, and fished up all sorts of wonderful things, older than
you would think possible. And of these I believe this charm to have been
one, and the most wonderful one of all.

Everyone listened: and everyone tried to think. It is not easy to do
this clearly when you have been listening to the kind of talk I have
told you about.

At last Robert said
said Cyril
He appealed to the Psammead, who said
said Anthea
said the voice
said Robert
the beautiful voice went on
A bell rang loudly
exclaimed Robert
added Anthea
politely.

The beautiful light faded slowly. The great darkness and silence came
and these suddenly changed to the dazzlement of day and the great soft,
rustling sound of London, that is like some vast beast turning over in
its sleep.

The children rubbed their eyes, the Psammead ran quickly to its sandy
bath, and the others went down to tea. And until the cups were actually
filled tea seemed less real than the beautiful voice and the greeny
light.

After tea Anthea persuaded the others to allow her to hang the charm
round her neck with a piece of string
she said
Next morning Anthea got old Nurse to allow her to take up the
she said
said he
said Anthea
The learned gentleman rubbed his hair with both hands and looked
anxiously at Anthea
he said
she said
The learned gentleman smiled feebly and then frowned -- not a cross-frown,
but a puzzle-frown
he said
she said
He had not had many adventures with children in them, and he wondered
whether all children were like these. He spent quite five minutes in
wondering before he settled down to the fifty-second chapter of his
great book on
It is no use to pretend that the children did not feel a good deal of
agitation at the thought of going through the charm into the Past. That
idea, that perhaps they might stay in the Past and never get back again,
was anything but pleasing. Yet no one would have dared to suggest that
the charm should not be used; and though each was in its heart very
frightened indeed, they would all have joined in jeering at the
cowardice of any one of them who should have uttered the timid but
natural suggestion
It seemed necessary to make arrangements for being out all day, for
there was no reason to suppose that the sound of the dinner-bell would
be able to reach back into the Past, and it seemed unwise to excite old
Nurse's curiosity when nothing they could say -- not even the truth -- could
in any way satisfy it. They were all very proud to think how well they
had understood what the charm and the Psammead had said about Time and
Space and things like that, and they were perfectly certain that it
would be quite impossible to make old Nurse understand a single word
of it. So they merely asked her to let them take their dinner out into
Regent's Park -- and this, with the implied cold mutton and tomatoes, was
readily granted
said old Nurse, giving Cyril a shilling
So Cyril took the shilling, and they all started off. They went round
by the Tottenham Court Road to buy a piece of waterproof sheeting to put
over the Psammead in case it should be raining in the Past when they got
there. For it is almost certain death to a Psammead to get wet.

The sun was shining very brightly, and even London looked pretty. Women
were selling roses from big baskets-full, and Anthea bought four roses,
one each, for herself and the others. They were red roses and smelt
of summer -- the kind of roses you always want so desperately at about
Christmas-time when you can only get mistletoe, which is pale right
through to its very scent, and holly which pricks your nose if you try
to smell it. So now everyone had a rose in its buttonhole, and soon
everyone was sitting on the grass in Regent's Park under trees whose
leaves would have been clean, clear green in the country, but here were
dusty and yellowish, and brown at the edges
said Anthea
said Jane
said Anthea
she
added, remembering the beast's queer temper
The Psammead, however, was unexpectedly amiable
it said
Jane with trembling hands took the Psammead and its fish-basket under
one arm. The charm's long string was hung round her neck. Then they all
stood up. Jane held out the charm at arm's length, and Cyril solemnly
pronounced the word of power.

As he spoke it the charm grew tall and broad, and he saw that Jane was
just holding on to the edge of a great red arch of very curious shape.
The opening of the arch was small, but Cyril saw that he could go
through it. All round and beyond the arch were the faded trees and
trampled grass of Regent's Park, where the little ragged children were
playing Ring-o'-Roses. But through the opening of it shone a blaze of
blue and yellow and red. Cyril drew a long breath and stiffened his
legs so that the others should not see that his knees were trembling and
almost knocking together
he said, and, stepping up through
the arch, disappeared. Then followed Anthea. Robert, coming next,
held fast, at Anthea's suggestion, to the sleeve of Jane, who was thus
dragged safely through the arch. And as soon as they were on the other
side of the arch there was no more arch at all and no more Regent's Park
either, only the charm in Jane's hand, and it was its proper size again.
They were now in a light so bright that they winked and blinked and
rubbed their eyes. During this dazzling interval Anthea felt for the
charm and pushed it inside Jane's frock, so that it might be quite safe.
When their eyes got used to the new wonderful light the children looked
around them. The sky was very, very blue, and it sparkled and glittered
and dazzled like the sea at home when the sun shines on it.

They were standing on a little clearing in a thick, low forest; there
were trees and shrubs and a close, thorny, tangly undergrowth. In
front of them stretched a bank of strange black mud, then came the
browny-yellowy shining ribbon of a river. Then more dry, caked mud and
more greeny-browny jungle. The only things that told that human people
had been there were the clearing, a path that led to it, and an odd
arrangement of cut reeds in the river.

They looked at each other
said Robert
It was. The air was hotter than they could have imagined, even in London
in August
said Cyril
said the Psammead, looking out of the fish-bag
said Robert, who had once taken a geography prize
Cyril objected. His prize had been for
natural history.

The Psammead reached out a hairy arm from its basket and pointed to a
heap of mud at the edge of the water
it said; and as it spoke the heap of mud slid
into the river just as a slab of damp mixed mortar will slip from a
bricklayer's trowel
said everybody.

There was a crashing among the reeds on the other side of the water
said the Psammead, as a great beast like an
enormous slaty-blue slug showed itself against the black bank on the far
side of the stream
said Cyril
said Jane.
And now there was a crackling of reeds and twigs behind them. This was
horrible. Of course it might be another hippopotamus, or a crocodile, or
a lion -- or, in fact, almost anything
said Robert hastily
said Jane
They had all turned to face the danger
said the Psammead in its friendly,
informal way
It was. It was a girl -- of about Anthea's age. Her hair was short and
fair, and though her skin was tanned by the sun, you could see that it
would have been fair too if it had had a chance. She had every chance of
being tanned, for she had no clothes to speak of, and the four English
children, carefully dressed in frocks, hats, shoes, stockings, coats,
collars, and all the rest of it, envied her more than any words of
theirs or of mine could possibly say. There was no doubt that here was
the right costume for that climate.

She carried a pot on her head, of red and black earthenware. She did not
see the children, who shrank back against the edge of the jungle, and
she went forward to the brink of the river to fill her pitcher. As she
went she made a strange sort of droning, humming, melancholy noise
all on two notes. Anthea could not help thinking that perhaps the girl
thought this noise was singing.

The girl filled the pitcher and set it down by the river bank. Then
she waded into the water and stooped over the circle of cut reeds. She
pulled half a dozen fine fish out of the water within the reeds, killing
each as she took it out, and threading it on a long osier that she
carried. Then she knotted the osier, hung it on her arm, picked up the
pitcher, and turned to come back. And as she turned she saw the four
children. The white dresses of Jane and Anthea stood out like snow
against the dark forest background. She screamed and the pitcher fell,
and the water was spilled out over the hard mud surface and over the
fish, which had fallen too. Then the water slowly trickled away into the
deep cracks
Anthea cried
said the girl.

Now, once for all, I am not going to be bothered to tell you how it was
that the girl could understand Anthea and Anthea could understand the
girl. YOU, at any rate, would not understand ME, if I tried to explain
it, any more than you can understand about time and space being only
forms of thought. You may think what you like. Perhaps the children
had found out the universal language which everyone can understand, and
which wise men so far have not found. You will have noticed long ago
that they were singularly lucky children, and they may have had this
piece of luck as well as others. Or it may have been that... but
why pursue the question further? The fact remains that in all their
adventures the muddle-headed inventions which we call foreign languages
never bothered them in the least. They could always understand and
be understood. If you can explain this, please do. I daresay I could
understand your explanation, though you could never understand mine.

So when the girl said
everyone understood at once, and
Anthea replied
Jane put her face right into the Psammead's basket, and burrowed her
mouth into its fur to whisper
The Psammead shrugged its fur
it said
rather crossly
it said.

The strange girl was trembling with fright.

Anthea had a bangle on her arm. It was a sevenpenny-halfpenny trumpery
thing that pretended to be silver; it had a glass heart of turquoise
blue hanging from it, and it was the gift of the maid-of-all-work at the
Fitzroy Street house
said Anthea
The girl held out her hand. Anthea slid the bangle over it, and the
girl's face lighted up with the joy of possession
she said, looking lovingly at the bangle
She picked up her fish and pitcher and led the way up the narrow path by
which she had come and the others followed
said Cyril, trying to be brave
said Robert, also assuming a boldness he was far from feeling
The belt of thick-growing acacia trees and shrubs -- mostly prickly and
unpleasant-looking -- seemed about half a mile across. The path was narrow
and the wood dark. At last, ahead, daylight shone through the boughs and
leaves.

The whole party suddenly came out of the wood's shadow into the glare of
the sunlight that shone on a great stretch of yellow sand, dotted with
heaps of grey rocks where spiky cactus plants showed gaudy crimson and
pink flowers among their shabby, sand-peppered leaves. Away to the right
was something that looked like a grey-brown hedge, and from beyond it
blue smoke went up to the bluer sky. And over all the sun shone till you
could hardly bear your clothes
said the girl pointing
whispered Jane into the basket
The Psammead ought to have been touched by this proof of confidence.
Perhaps, however, it looked upon it as a proof of doubt, for it merely
snarled
whispered Anthea
said Cyril, in a low voice
This Jane at last consented to do.

As they got nearer to the browny fence they saw that it was a great
hedge about eight feet high, made of piled-up thorn bushes
asked Cyril
said the girl
said he
There was an opening in the hedge, and they followed the girl through
it. A little way further on was another hedge, not so high, also of dry
thorn bushes, very prickly and spiteful-looking, and within this was a
sort of village of huts.

There were no gardens and no roads. Just huts built of wood and twigs
and clay, and roofed with great palm-leaves, dumped down anywhere. The
doors of these houses were very low, like the doors of dog-kennels.
The ground between them was not paths or streets, but just yellow sand
trampled very hard and smooth.

In the middle of the village there was a hedge that enclosed what seemed
to be a piece of ground about as big as their own garden in Camden Town.

No sooner were the children well within the inner thorn hedge than
dozens of men and women and children came crowding round from behind and
inside the huts.

The girl stood protectingly in front of the four children, and said
She held out her arm with the Lowther Arcade bangle on it.

The children from London, where nothing now surprises anyone, had never
before seen so many people look so astonished.

They crowded round the children, touching their clothes, their shoes,
the buttons on the boys' jackets, and the coral of the girls' necklaces
whispered Anthea
said Cyril, with some dim remembrance of a dreadful day when
he had had to wait in an outer office while his father interviewed
a solicitor, and there had been nothing to read but the Daily
Telegraph
he added hastily
Cyril's speech didn't keep the crowd from pressing round and looking as
eagerly as ever at the clothing of the children. Anthea had an idea
that these people had never seen woven stuff before, and she saw how
wonderful and strange it must seem to people who had never had any
clothes but the skins of beasts. The sewing, too, of modern clothes
seemed to astonish them very much. They must have been able to sew
themselves, by the way, for men who seemed to be the chiefs wore
knickerbockers of goat-skin or deer-skin, fastened round the waist
with twisted strips of hide. And the women wore long skimpy skirts of
animals' skins. The people were not very tall, their hair was fair, and
men and women both had it short. Their eyes were blue, and that seemed
odd in Egypt. Most of them were tattooed like sailors, only more
roughly
they kept asking touching the children's
clothes curiously.

Anthea hastily took off Jane's frilly lace collar and handed it to the
woman who seemed most friendly
she said
She spoke in the tone of authority which she had always found successful
when she had not time to coax her baby brother to do as he was told. The
tone was just as successful now. The children were left together and the
crowd retreated. It paused a dozen yards away to look at the lace collar
and to go on talking as hard as it could.

The children will never know what those people said, though they knew
well enough that they, the four strangers, were the subject of the talk.
They tried to comfort themselves by remembering the girl's promise
of friendliness, but of course the thought of the charm was more
comfortable than anything else. They sat down on the sand in the shadow
of the hedged-round place in the middle of the village, and now for the
first time they were able to look about them and to see something more
than a crowd of eager, curious faces.

They here noticed that the women wore necklaces made of beads of
different coloured stone, and from these hung pendants of odd, strange
shapes, and some of them had bracelets of ivory and flint
said Robert
said Cyril
Anthea beckoned to the girl, who was standing a little way off looking
wistfully at them, and she came gladly
said Cyril
said the girl
said the girl
It was the first
word she had not understood
asked Cyril
said the girl,
opening her eyes wide.

I wish I had time to tell you of that talk. The English children wanted
to hear all about this new place, but they also wanted to tell of their
own country. It was like when you come back from your holidays and you
want to hear and to tell everything at the same time. As the talk went
on there were more and more words that the girl could not understand,
and the children soon gave up the attempt to explain to her what their
own country was like, when they began to see how very few of the things
they had always thought they could not do without were really not at all
necessary to life.

The girl showed them how the huts were made -- indeed, as one was being
made that very day she took them to look at it. The way of building was
very different from ours. The men stuck long pieces of wood into a piece
of ground the size of the hut they wanted to make. These were about
eight inches apart; then they put in another row about eight inches away
from the first, and then a third row still further out. Then all the
space between was filled up with small branches and twigs, and then
daubed over with black mud worked with the feet till it was soft and
sticky like putty.

The girl told them how the men went hunting with flint spears and
arrows, and how they made boats with reeds and clay. Then she explained
the reed thing in the river that she had taken the fish out of. It was a
fish-trap -- just a ring of reeds set up in the water with only one little
opening in it, and in this opening, just below the water, were stuck
reeds slanting the way of the river's flow, so that the fish, when they
had swum sillily in, sillily couldn't get out again. She showed them the
clay pots and jars and platters, some of them ornamented with black and
red patterns, and the most wonderful things made of flint and different
sorts of stone, beads, and ornaments, and tools and weapons of all sorts
and kinds
said Cyril patronizingly
said the girl
whispered Jane
asked Anthea, struck by a sudden
thought, and pointing to the fence
said the girl in a whisper
said Cyril, looking at her very hard
said Anthea taking off a
bead-ring which had already been much admired
said the girl, catching eagerly at the ring
asked Anthea.

The girl nodded
asked Jane, rashly producing the charm.

The girl's face turned a sickly greenish-white
she whispered
said Cyril
He turned to the girl, but before he had time to
speak the question there was a loud shout, and a man bounded in through
the opening in the thorn-hedge
he cried
His breath only served for that, and he lay panting on the ground
said Jane
She held up the charm. Fortunately all the strange, fair people were too
busy to notice HER. She held up the charm. And nothing happened
said Anthea.

Jane hastily said it -- and still nothing happened
said Robert
said Jane, dancing about in her agony of terror.

Nobody knew. So they opened the fish-bag to ask the Psammead.

And the bag had only a waterproof sheet in it.

The Psammead was gone
whispered the girl.

Cyril shrugged his shoulders, and tried to look as brave as he knew he
ought to feel
he said
Here was a horrible position! Four English children, whose proper date
was A.D. 1905, and whose proper address was London, set down in Egypt in
the year 6000 B.C. with no means whatever of getting back into their own
time and place. They could not find the East, and the sun was of no use
at the moment, because some officious person had once explained to Cyril
that the sun did not really set in the West at all -- nor rise in the East
either, for the matter of that.

The Psammead had crept out of the bass-bag when they were not looking
and had basely deserted them.

An enemy was approaching. There would be a fight. People get killed
in fights, and the idea of taking part in a fight was one that did not
appeal to the children.

The man who had brought the news of the enemy still lay panting on the
sand. His tongue was hanging out, long and red, like a dog's. The
people of the village were hurriedly filling the gaps in the fence with
thorn-bushes from the heap that seemed to have been piled there
ready for just such a need. They lifted the cluster-thorns with long
poles -- much as men at home, nowadays, lift hay with a fork.

Jane bit her lip and tried to decide not to cry.

Robert felt in his pocket for a toy pistol and loaded it with a pink
paper cap. It was his only weapon.

Cyril tightened his belt two holes.

And Anthea absently took the drooping red roses from the buttonholes of
the others, bit the ends of the stalks, and set them in a pot of water
that stood in the shadow by a hut door. She was always rather silly
about flowers
she said
Jane succeeded in deciding not to cry -- at any rate yet
Robert asked
Cyril answered promptly
The runner had risen to his knees and was sitting back on his heels. Now
he stood up and spoke. He began by some respectful remarks addressed to
the heads of the village. His speech got more interesting when he said
said the headman, turning suddenly and angrily on
Cyril
said Cyril indignantly
he asked the runner
was the answer
A murmur ran through the crowd
said Cyril again
The headman seemed impressed by the fact that Cyril knew that there WERE
sacred things to be guarded. He stood a moment gazing at the children.
Then he said
The crowd dispersed, and nine men, wearing antelope-skins, grouped
themselves in front of the opening in the hedge in the middle of
the village. And presently, one by one, the men brought all sorts of
things -- hippopotamus flesh, ostrich-feathers, the fruit of the date
palms, red chalk, green chalk, fish from the river, and ibex from the
mountains; and the headman received these gifts. There was another hedge
inside the first, about a yard from it, so that there was a lane inside
between the hedges. And every now and then one of the headmen would
disappear along this lane with full hands and come back with hands
empty
said Anthea
The pockets of the party, hastily explored, yielded a piece of pink
tape, a bit of sealing-wax, and part of the Waterbury watch that Robert
had not been able to help taking to pieces at Christmas and had never
had time to rearrange. Most boys have a watch in this condition. They
presented their offerings, and Anthea added the red roses.

The headman who took the things looked at them with awe, especially at
the red roses and the Waterbury-watch fragment
he said
The children shuddered
Robert said
He held out the toy pistol
asked the man cautiously
said Robert
He
looked at the pistol and said
he pointed to the
hedged-in space
He pulled the trigger, and the cap went off. The noise was loud, for it
was a two-shilling pistol, and the caps were excellent.

Every man, woman, and child in the village fell on its face on the sand.
The headman who had accepted the test rose first
he said
So now the four children were led in through the opening of the hedge
and round the lane till they came to an opening in the inner hedge, and
they went through an opening in that, and so passed into another lane.

The thing was built something like this, and all the hedges were of
brushwood and thorns: &lsqb;Drawing of maze omitted
whispered Anthea.

The lanes were all open to the sky, but the little hut in the middle of
the maze was round-roofed, and a curtain of skins hung over the doorway
said their guide
He himself passed it and disappeared
whispered Cyril
said
Anthea. 'It's quite bad enough to be separated from the Psammead. We
can't do anything while that man is in there. Let's all go out into
the village again. We can come back later now we know the way in.
That man'll have to fight like the rest, most likely, if it comes to
fighting. If we find the Psammead we'll go straight home.

It must be getting late, and I don't much like this mazy place.'

They went out and told the headman that they would protect the treasure
when the fighting began. And now they looked about them and were able
to see exactly how a first-class worker in flint flakes and notches an
arrow-head or the edge of an axe -- an advantage which no other person now
alive has ever enjoyed. The boys found the weapons most interesting.
The arrow-heads were not on arrows such as you shoot from a bow, but
on javelins, for throwing from the hand. The chief weapon was a stone
fastened to a rather short stick something like the things gentlemen
used to carry about and call life-preservers in the days of the
garrotters.

Then there were long things like spears or lances, with flint
knives -- horribly sharp -- and flint battle-axes.

Everyone in the village was so busy that the place was like an ant-heap
when you have walked into it by accident. The women were busy and even
the children.

Quite suddenly all the air seemed to glow and grow red -- it was like
the sudden opening of a furnace door, such as you may see at Woolwich
Arsenal if you ever have the luck to be taken there -- and then almost as
suddenly it was as though the furnace doors had been shut. For the sun
had set, and it was night.

The sun had that abrupt way of setting in Egypt eight thousand years
ago, and I believe it has never been able to break itself of the habit,
and sets in exactly the same manner to the present day. The girl brought
the skins of wild deer and led the children to a heap of dry sedge
she said, and it
really seemed a good idea. You may think that in the midst of all these
dangers the children would not have been able to sleep -- but somehow,
though they were rather frightened now and then, the feeling was growing
in them -- deep down and almost hidden away, but still growing -- that the
Psammead was to be trusted, and that they were really and truly safe.
This did not prevent their being quite as much frightened as they could
bear to be without being perfectly miserable
said Robert
he added soothingly
And they all fell asleep.

They were awakened by long, loud, terrible sounds that seemed to come
from everywhere at once -- horrible threatening shouts and shrieks
and howls that sounded, as Cyril said later, like the voices of men
thirsting for their enemies' blood
said the girl, coming to them
trembling through the dark
she cried indignantly.

All night the terrible noise went on, but when the sun rose, as abruptly
as he had set, the sound suddenly ceased.

The children had hardly time to be glad of this before a shower
of javelins came hurtling over the great thorn-hedge, and everyone
sheltered behind the huts. But next moment another shower of weapons
came from the opposite side, and the crowd rushed to other shelter.
Cyril pulled out a javelin that had stuck in the roof of the hut beside
him. Its head was of brightly burnished copper.

Then the sound of shouting arose again and the crackle of dried thorns.
The enemy was breaking down the hedge. All the villagers swarmed to the
point whence the crackling and the shouting came; they hurled stones
over the hedges, and short arrows with flint heads. The children had
never before seen men with the fighting light in their eyes. It was very
strange and terrible, and gave you a queer thick feeling in your throat;
it was quite different from the pictures of fights in the illustrated
papers at home.

It seemed that the shower of stones had driven back the besiegers. The
besieged drew breath, but at that moment the shouting and the crackling
arose on the opposite side of the village and the crowd hastened
to defend that point, and so the fight swayed to and fro across the
village, for the besieged had not the sense to divide their forces as
their enemies had done.

Cyril noticed that every now and then certain of the fighting-men would
enter the maze, and come out with brighter faces, a braver aspect, and a
more upright carriage
he said
They crept through the maze, and watching they saw that Cyril was right.
A headman was standing in front of the skin curtain, and as the warriors
came before him he murmured a word they could not hear, and touched
their foreheads with something that they could not see. And this
something he held in his hands. And through his fingers they saw the
gleam of a red stone that they knew.

The fight raged across the thorn-hedge outside. Suddenly there was a
loud and bitter cry
The headman disappeared behind the deer-skin curtain
said Anthea
Suddenly there was a shriek from inside the hut, and the headman
staggered out white with fear and fled out through the maze. The
children were as white as he
moaned Anthea
And the sound of the fight sank breathlessly, and swelled fiercely all
around. It was like the rising and falling of the waves of the sea.

Anthea shuddered and said again
said a brisk voice, and the curtain of skins was lifted at one
corner by a furry hand, and out peeped the bat's ears and snail's eyes
of the Psammead.

Anthea caught it in her arms and a sigh of desperate relief was breathed
by each of the four
Anthea said, and she spoke hurriedly, for the
noise of wild fighting drew nearer and nearer
said the Psammead
The inside of the hut was pitch dark
said Cyril, and struck it. The floor of the hut was
of soft, loose sand
said the Psammead
The hut was hung with skins. Heaped in the middle were the offerings
that had been given the night before, Anthea's roses fading on the top
of the heap. At one side of the hut stood a large square stone block,
and on it an oblong box of earthenware with strange figures of men and
beasts on it
asked Cyril, as the Psammead pointed a skinny
finger at it
said the Psammead
said Anthea
said the Psammead impatiently, getting
into its bass-bag and wrapping itself in its waterproof sheet
said
Jane
the Psammead said
It pointed to the great stone.

And still the shouting and the clash of stone on metal sounded nearer
and nearer. The children could hear that the headmen had surrounded the
hut to protect their treasure as long as might be from the enemy. But
none dare to come in after the Psammead's sudden fierce biting of the
headman
said Cyril, very quickly
He made a step forward, but at that instant a great crackling overhead
ended in a blaze of sunlight. The roof had been broken in at one side,
and great slabs of it were being lifted off by two spears. As the
children trembled and winked in the new light, large dark hands tore
down the wall, and a dark face, with a blobby fat nose, looked over the
gap. Even at that awful moment Anthea had time to think that it was very
like the face of Mr Jacob Absalom, who had sold them the charm in the
shop near Charing Cross
cried a harsh, strange voice
He glared fiercely at the children, and the whites of his eyes were very
white indeed. He had a wet, red copper knife in his teeth. There was not
a moment to lose
cried everyone passionately.

Jane with trembling hands held up the charm towards the East, and Cyril
spoke the word of power. The Amulet grew to a great arch. Out beyond
it was the glaring Egyptian sky, the broken wall, the cruel, dark,
big-nosed face with the red, wet knife in its gleaming teeth. Within the
arch was the dull, faint, greeny-brown of London grass and trees
Cyril cried, and he dashed through the arch,
dragging Anthea and the Psammead after him. Robert followed, clutching
Jane. And in the ears of each, as they passed through the arch of the
charm, the sound and fury of battle died out suddenly and utterly, and
they heard only the low, dull, discontented hum of vast London, and the
peeking and patting of the sparrows on the gravel and the voices of the
ragged baby children playing Ring-o'-Roses on the yellow trampled grass.
And the charm was a little charm again in Jane's hand, and there was the
basket with their dinner and the bathbuns lying just where they had left
it
said Cyril, drawing a long breath
said the Psammead.

They all lay still, breathing in the safe, quiet air of Regent's Park
said Anthea presently
said Cyril, feeling one
They were not hungry, curiously enough.

They picked up the dinner-basket and the Psammead-basket, and went
straight home.

Old Nurse met them with amazement
she said
The children took this to be bitter irony, which means saying the exact
opposite of what you mean in order to make yourself disagreeable; as
when you happen to have a dirty face, and someone says
began Anthea, but old Nurse said
When she had gone to attend to the potatoes the children looked at each
other. Could it be that old Nurse had so changed that she no longer
cared that they should have been away from home for twenty-four
hours -- all night in fact -- without any explanation whatever?

But the Psammead put its head out of its basket and said
asked Jane
said the Psammead
That evening Anthea carried up a steak for the learned gentleman's
dinner. She persuaded Beatrice, the maid-of-all-work, who had given her
the bangle with the blue stone, to let her do it. And she stayed and
talked to him, by special invitation, while he ate the dinner.

She told him the whole adventure, beginning with
and
ending up with
She did not tell anything about the charm or the Psammead, because that
was forbidden, but the story was quite wonderful enough even as it was
to entrance the learned gentleman
he said
said Anthea
he said slowly, as one who recalls and pronounces a
long-forgotten word.

He sat long after she had left him. At last he roused himself with a
start
he said
He finished his bread conscientiously, and actually went for a mile walk
before he went back to his work
Jane was singing to her doll, rocking it to and fro in the house
which she had made for herself and it. The roof of the house was the
dining-table, and the walls were tablecloths and antimacassars hanging
all round, and kept in their places by books laid on their top ends at
the table edge.

The others were tasting the fearful joys of domestic tobogganing. You
know how it is done -- with the largest and best tea-tray and the surface
of the stair carpet. It is best to do it on the days when the stair rods
are being cleaned, and the carpet is only held by the nails at the top.
Of course, it is one of the five or six thoroughly tip-top games that
grown-up people are so unjust to -- and old Nurse, though a brick in many
respects, was quite enough of a standard grown-up to put her foot down
on the tobogganing long before any of the performers had had half enough
of it. The tea-tray was taken away, and the baffled party entered the
sitting-room, in exactly the mood not to be pleased if they could help
it.

So Cyril said
And Robert added
Even Anthea, who was almost always kind, advised Jane to try another
song
said she.

It was a wet day, so none of the plans for seeing all the sights of
London that can be seen for nothing could be carried out. Everyone had
been thinking all the morning about the wonderful adventures of the day
before, when Jane had held up the charm and it had turned into an arch,
through which they had walked straight out of the present time and
the Regent's Park into the land of Egypt eight thousand years ago.
The memory of yesterday's happenings was still extremely fresh and
frightening, so that everyone hoped that no one would suggest another
excursion into the past, for it seemed to all that yesterday's
adventures were quite enough to last for at least a week. Yet each felt
a little anxious that the others should not think it was afraid, and
presently Cyril, who really was not a coward, began to see that it would
not be at all nice if he should have to think himself one. So he said
said Robert.

Jane obediently wriggled to the front of her house and sat there.

She felt for the charm, to make sure that it was still round her neck
said Cyril, saying much more than he meant because he
thought Robert's tone had been rude -- as indeed it had
said Robert; but he added, with
a fine air of chivalry
said Anthea hurriedly
said Jane heavily
said Cyril
Seeing Jane so frightened, made the others feel quite brave. They said
they were certain they ought to go
Anthea added, a little
primly.

Jane stood up. She was desperate
she cried
You can imagine how furious everyone was with Jane for feeling what each
of them had felt all the morning. In each breast the same thought arose
And they at once began to show Jane
how angry they all felt that all the fault was hers. This made them feel
quite brave
sang Robert
Cyril spoke in a
cold displeasure that was worse than Robert's cruel quotation, and even
Anthea said
which of course, was
the most cutting thing of all.

Jane picked up her doll and faced the others with what is sometimes
called the courage of despair
she said
With these awful words she went out and banged the door.

Then the others would not look at each other, and they did not feel so
brave as they had done.

Cyril took up a book, but it was not interesting to read. Robert kicked
a chair-leg absently. His feet were always eloquent in moments of
emotion. Anthea stood pleating the end of the tablecloth into folds -- she
seemed earnestly anxious to get all the pleats the same size. The sound
of Jane's sobs had died away.

Suddenly Anthea said
said Robert, kicking the chair suddenly.

'Well, said Cyril, who was subject to passing fits of justice
Cyril's justice was always
uncompromising
said Robert, and the
chair-leg cracked to the kick he gave as he said it
said Anthea
said Cyril, opening the
door.'Hi -- you -- Pussy!'

Far away up the stairs a voice could be heard singing brokenly, but
still defiantly
It was trying, for this was plainly meant to annoy. But Anthea would not
give herself time to think this. She led the way up the stairs, taking
three at a time, and bounded to the level of Jane, who sat on the top
step of all, thumping her doll to the tune of the song she was trying to
sing
It was enough. The kiss of peace was given by all. Jane being the
youngest was entitled to this ceremonial. Anthea added a special apology
of her own
she said
said Robert, to
show that there was now no ill-feeling
said Jane hastily; she hated
underdone meat
At this moment the door of the learned gentleman's room opened, and he
looked out
he said, in that gentle, polite weary voice of his
said Robert
He would have said
but Anthea pinched him just in
time
said the learned gentleman
So they all said together
the learned gentleman said with a sigh
asked Jane
he answered with a sigh
He was leaning on the banisters, and his eyes had a far-away look in
them, as though he could see through the staircase window the splendour
and glory of ancient Babylon
Cyril remarked abruptly
the learned gentleman replied
The others looked at each other, but
it was Jane who spoke
For she had read the thoughts of the others by the
unerring light of her own fears
said
the learned gentleman
he looked doubtfully at his audience and went
on
said Robert
said the learned
gentleman
said Jane abruptly, and the others
hastened to say
before she should have time to change her mind
said the learned gentleman, smiling rather sadly
He sighed again, and then adding with
a laboured briskness
he went
into his room and shut the door
said Cyril
So they woke the Psammead and put it in its bass-bag with the waterproof
sheet, in case of inclement weather in Babylon. It was very cross, but
it said it would as soon go to Babylon as anywhere else
it added.

Then Jane held up the charm, and Cyril said
said Jane hastily
said the Psammead.

So Anthea hastily uttered the word of power, without which the charm
could do nothing
she said softly, and as she spoke the charm grew
into an arch so tall that the top of it was close against the bedroom
ceiling. Outside the arch was the bedroom painted chest-of-drawers
and the Kidderminster carpet, and the washhand-stand with the riveted
willow-pattern jug, and the faded curtains, and the dull light of
indoors on a wet day. Through the arch showed the gleam of soft green
leaves and white blossoms. They stepped forward quite happily. Even Jane
felt that this did not look like lions, and her hand hardly trembled
at all as she held the charm for the others to go through, and last,
slipped through herself, and hung the charm, now grown small again,
round her neck.

The children found themselves under a white-blossomed, green-leafed
fruit-tree, in what seemed to be an orchard of such trees, all
white-flowered and green-foliaged. Among the long green grass under
their feet grew crocuses and lilies, and strange blue flowers. In the
branches overhead thrushes and blackbirds were singing, and the coo of a
pigeon came softly to them in the green quietness of the orchard
cried Anthea
The boys owned that it certainly was fairly decent, and even Jane
admitted that it was all very pretty
said Anthea
said Jane
said Cyril
They began to walk through the cool grass. As far as they could see was
nothing but trees, and trees and more trees. At the end of their orchard
was another one, only separated from theirs by a little stream of
clear water. They jumped this, and went on. Cyril, who was fond of
gardening -- which meant that he liked to watch the gardener at work -- was
able to command the respect of the others by telling them the names of
a good many trees. There were nut-trees and almond-trees, and apricots,
and fig-trees with their big five-fingered leaves. And every now and
then the children had to cross another brook
said
Anthea.

At last they came to an orchard which was quite different from the other
orchards. It had a low building in one corner
said Cyril superiorly
At last they got out of the orchards and on to a sort of road, very
rough, and not at all like the roads you are used to. It had cypress
trees and acacia trees along it, and a sort of hedge of tamarisks,
like those you see on the road between Nice and Cannes, or near
Littlehampton, if you've only been as far as that.

And now in front of them they could see a great mass of buildings.
There were scattered houses of wood and stone here and there among green
orchards, and beyond these a great wall that shone red in the early
morning sun. The wall was enormously high -- more than half the height of
St Paul's -- and in the wall were set enormous gates that shone like gold
as the rising sun beat on them. Each gate had a solid square tower on
each side of it that stood out from the wall and rose above it. Beyond
the wall were more towers and houses, gleaming with gold and bright
colours. Away to the left ran the steel-blue swirl of a great river.
And the children could see, through a gap in the trees, that the river
flowed out from the town under a great arch in the wall
said Cyril
instructively
Robert replied
said Cyril loftily
cried Anthea
And indeed the great gates swung back with a brazen clang, and instantly
a little crowd of a dozen or more people came out and along the road
towards them.

The children, with one accord, crouched behind the tamarisk hedge
said Jane
the Psammead put its head
out of the basket to remind her
There was something at once simple and grand about this idea, and it
pleased everyone.

So when the work-people had passed (they WERE work-people, the children
felt sure, because they were dressed so plainly -- just one long blue
shirt thing -- of blue or yellow) the four children marched boldly up to
the brazen gate between the towers. The arch above the gate was quite a
tunnel, the walls were so thick
said Cyril
Robert answered this appeal by unexpectedly bursting into
This brought them to the threshold of the gate, and two men in bright
armour suddenly barred their way with crossed spears
they said.

(I think I must have explained to you before how it was that the
children were always able to understand the language of any place they
might happen to be in, and to be themselves understood. If not, I have
no time to explain it now
said Cyril mechanically
amended Anthea
said the gatekeeper
said Anthea hurriedly, and not taking any notice of
the question as to where they had come from
said the gatekeeper
asked Cyril.

The gatekeeper seemed neither to know nor to care. He appeared less
interested in them than they could have thought possible. But the man
who had crossed spears with him to bar the children's way was more
human
he said
He said
it in the tone people use for when they call the Atlantic Ocean the
'herring pond'.

The gatekeeper hesitated
said the other, who had children of
his own
said the Captain
The man led them through the dark arch into the town. And it was very
different from London. For one thing, everything in London seems to be
patched up out of odds and ends, but these houses seemed to have been
built by people who liked the same sort of things. Not that they were
all alike, for though all were squarish, they were of different sizes,
and decorated in all sorts of different ways, some with paintings in
bright colours, some with black and silver designs. There were terraces,
and gardens, and balconies, and open spaces with trees. Their guide took
them to a little house in a back street, where a kind-faced woman sat
spinning at the door of a very dark room
he said
The woman did as she was told, and the four children, wrapped in fringed
mantles, went with her all about the town, and oh! how I wish I had time
to tell you all that they saw. It was all so wonderfully different
from anything you have ever seen. For one thing, all the houses were
dazzlingly bright, and many of them covered with pictures. Some had
great creatures carved in stone at each side of the door. Then the
people -- there were no black frock-coats and tall hats; no dingy coats
and skirts of good, useful, ugly stuffs warranted to wear. Everyone's
clothes were bright and beautiful with blue and scarlet and green and
gold.

The market was brighter than you would think anything could be. There
were stalls for everything you could possibly want -- and for a great many
things that if you wanted here and now, want would be your master. There
were pineapples and peaches in heaps -- and stalls of crockery and glass
things, beautiful shapes and glorious colours, there were stalls for
necklaces, and clasps, and bracelets, and brooches, for woven stuffs,
and furs, and embroidered linen. The children had never seen half so
many beautiful things together, even at Liberty's. It seemed no time at
all before the woman said
So they went to the palace, and when they got
there it was more splendid than anything they had seen yet.

For it was glowing with colours, and with gold and silver and black and
white -- like some magnificent embroidery. Flight after flight of broad
marble steps led up to it, and at the edges of the stairs stood great
images, twenty times as big as a man -- images of men with wings like
chain armour, and hawks' heads, and winged men with the heads of dogs.
And there were the statues of great kings.

Between the flights of steps were terraces where fountains played, and
the Queen's Guard in white and scarlet, and armour that shone like gold,
stood by twos lining the way up the stairs; and a great body of them was
massed by the vast door of the palace itself, where it stood glittering
like an impossibly radiant peacock in the noon-day sun.

All sorts of people were passing up the steps to seek audience of the
Queen. Ladies in richly-embroidered dresses with fringy flounces, poor
folks in plain and simple clothes, dandies with beards oiled and curled.

And Cyril, Robert, Anthea and Jane, went with the crowd.

At the gate of the palace the Psammead put one eye cautiously out of the
basket and whispered
said Jane. The woman was giving some last
instructions in Court etiquette to Anthea, and did not hear Jane
said the Psammead quite fiercely
said Jane. And it was the most surprising
thing she had ever said in her life.

Everyone opened its mouth without thinking of manners, and Anthea, who
was peeping into the Psammead's basket, saw that its mouth opened wider
than anybody's
Jane went on
said everyone, for they had observed that the
Psammead had a way of knowing which side its bread was buttered.

She turned to the woman and said
said the woman.

And then Anthea hurriedly stroked the Psammead and embraced Jane, who
took the woman's hand, and trotted contentedly away with the Psammead's
bag under the other arm.

The others stood looking after her till she, the woman, and the basket
were lost in the many-coloured crowd. Then Anthea turned once more to
the palace's magnificent doorway and said
So they took off the garments that the woman had lent them and stood
amid the jostling petitioners of the Queen in their own English frocks
and coats and hats and boots
said Cyril
A murmur of surprise and a thrill of excitement ran through the crowd.
The door-porter spoke to a black man, he spoke to someone else. There
was a whispering, waiting pause. Then a big man, with a cleanly-shaven
face, beckoned them from the top of a flight of red marble steps.

They went up; the boots of Robert clattering more than usual because he
was so nervous. A door swung open, a curtain was drawn back. A double
line of bowing forms in gorgeous raiment formed a lane that led to the
steps of the throne, and as the children advanced hurriedly there came
from the throne a voice very sweet and kind
In another minute they were kneeling at the throne's foot, saying
exactly as the woman had taught them. And a
splendid dream-lady, all gold and silver and jewels and snowy drift of
veils, was raising Anthea, and saying
And behind Anthea the kneeling Cyril whispered in the ears of the
respectful Robert
whispered Robert
whispered Cyril, in miserable derision
Then Robert saw, and he murmured
at the foot of the throne of
Babylon; while Cyril hoarsely whispered the plain English fact
Robert repeated in heart-broken undertones
The Queen threw three of the red and gold embroidered cushions off the
throne on to the marble steps that led up to it
she said
No, said Cyril
said the Queen
said
Anthea
asked the Queen
said the Queen
said Anthea
said the Queen
said Robert hastily
The Queen settled herself on her throne and made a signal to her
attendants. The children, whispering together among the cushions on the
steps of the throne, decided that she was very beautiful and very kind,
but perhaps just the least bit flighty.

The first person who came to ask for justice was a woman whose brother
had taken the money the father had left for her. The brother said it
was the uncle who had the money. There was a good deal of talk and the
children were growing rather bored, when the Queen suddenly clapped her
hands, and said
Cyril could not help interrupting
said the Queen
said the Queen
Then came a woman, in tears, with a torn veil and real ashes on her
head -- at least Anthea thought so, but it may have been only road-dust.
She complained that her husband was in prison
said the Queen
said the woman
said the Queen
said the woman simply
said the Queen, smiling
The next case was that of a boy who had stolen a fox
whispered Robert. But the Queen ruled that nobody could have any
possible reason for owning a fox, and still less for stealing one. And
she did not believe that there were any foxes in Babylon; she, at any
rate, had never seen one. So the boy was released.

The people came to the Queen about all sorts of family quarrels and
neighbourly misunderstandings -- from a fight between brothers over the
division of an inheritance, to the dishonest and unfriendly conduct of
a woman who had borrowed a cooking-pot at the last New Year's festival,
and not returned it yet.

And the Queen decided everything, very, very decidedly indeed. At last
she clapped her hands quite suddenly and with extreme loudness, and
said
Everyone said
and went out.

And the children were left alone in the justice-hall with the Queen of
Babylon and her ladies
said the Queen, with a long sigh of relief
She led them through long, narrow corridors whose walls they somehow
felt, were very, very thick, into a sort of garden courtyard. There were
thick shrubs closely planted, and roses were trained over trellises, and
made a pleasant shade -- needed, indeed, for already the sun was as hot as
it is in England in August at the seaside.

Slaves spread cushions on a low, marble terrace, and a big man with a
smooth face served cool drink in cups of gold studded with beryls. He
drank a little from the Queen's cup before handing it to her
whispered Robert, who had been carefully
taught never to drink out of one of the nice, shiny, metal cups that are
chained to the London drinking fountains without first rinsing it out
thoroughly.

The Queen overheard him
said she
The word made the children feel rather creepy; but Ritti-Marduk
had tasted all the cups, so they felt pretty safe. The drink was
delicious -- very cold, and tasting like lemonade and partly like penny
ices
said the Queen. And all the Court ladies, in their
beautiful, many-folded, many-coloured, fringed dresses, filed out
slowly, and the children were left alone with the Queen
she said
They looked at each other
said Cyril
said Robert
said Anthea
Cyril muttered that it was all very well, and so it was. For when he had
told the tale of the Phoenix and the Carpet to the Ranee, it had been
only the truth -- and all the truth that he had to tell. But now it
was not easy to tell a convincing story without mentioning the
Amulet -- which, of course, it wouldn't have done to mention -- and without
owning that they were really living in London, about 2,500 years later
than the time they were talking in.

Cyril took refuge in the tale of the Psammead and its wonderful power of
making wishes come true. The children had never been able to tell anyone
before, and Cyril was surprised to find that the spell which kept them
silent in London did not work here
he said to himself
said the Queen
Anthea explained that they did not know; also why it was that they did
not know
said the Queen, and everyone breathed a deep
sigh of relief as she said it
Anthea's voice was tremulous
said the Queen heartily, and clapped her hands
asked Cyril, pulling out a red-backed penny
account-book, and feeling in his pockets for a stump of pencil that he
knew was in one of them
said Cyril, finding the pencil
and licking its point. He even had to bite the wood a little, for it was
very blunt
said the Queen
Cyril wrote on a leaf of the book -- it was of rough, woolly paper, with
hairs that stuck out and would have got in his pen if he had been using
one, and ruled for accounts
he wrote
said the
Queen
I've
replied Cyril cautiously
Ritti-Marduk, who had come in and had stood waiting while Cyril wrote,
his Babylonish eyes nearly starting out of his Babylonish head, now took
the letter, with some reluctance
he timidly asked
said Robert, unexpectedly
he ended abruptly
said Ritti-Marduk, bending timorously
said Robert
Ritti-Marduk went, seeming only partly satisfied; and then the Queen
began to admire the penny account-book and the bit of pencil in so
marked and significant a way that Cyril felt he could not do less than
press them upon her as a gift. She ruffled the leaves delightedly
she said
her voice sank to a whisper
said Cyril, and hastily wrote the names of Alfred the Great,
Shakespeare, Nelson, Gordon, Lord Beaconsfield, Mr Rudyard Kipling, and
Mr Sherlock Holmes, while the Queen watched him with 'unbaited breath',
as Anthea said afterwards.

She took the book and hid it reverently among the bright folds of her
gown
she said
said Cyril
said the Queen, putting her hands to her ears
said Anthea
said
the Queen gently
Anthea hastened to say
The Queen looked bewildered
explained Robert
said the Queen scornfully
asked Anthea
said Anthea, gasping
the Queen went on
said Anthea, who wanted to get to the princess part of
the story
said the Queen
said Cyril
She led them into a dark, cool hall, with many cushions on the floor. On
these they sat and low tables were brought -- beautiful tables of smooth,
blue stone mounted in gold. On these, golden trays were placed; but
there were no knives, or forks, or spoons. The children expected the
Queen to call for them; but no. She just ate with her fingers, and as
the first dish was a great tray of boiled corn, and meat and raisins all
mixed up together, and melted fat poured all over the tray, it was found
difficult to follow her example with anything like what we are used to
think of as good table manners. There were stewed quinces afterwards,
and dates in syrup, and thick yellowy cream. It was the kind of dinner
you hardly ever get in Fitzroy Street.

After dinner everybody went to sleep, even the children.

The Queen awoke with a start
she cried
Anthea asked
said the Queen
Ritti-Marduk came in a moment later
he said
He
bowed and withdrew.

The horror of this threefold loss -- Jane, the Psammead, and the
Amulet -- gave the children something to talk about while the Queen was
dressing. I shall not report their conversation; it was very gloomy.
Everyone repeated himself several times, and the discussion ended in
each of them blaming the other two for having let Jane go. You know the
sort of talk it was, don't you? At last Cyril said
They did enjoy the banquet. They had a beautiful bath, which was
delicious, were heavily oiled all over, including their hair, and that
was most unpleasant. Then, they dressed again and were presented to the
King, who was most affable. The banquet was long; there were all sorts
of nice things to eat, and everybody seemed to eat and drink a good
deal. Everyone lay on cushions and couches, ladies on one side and
gentlemen on the other; and after the eating was done each lady went and
sat by some gentleman, who seemed to be her sweetheart or her husband,
for they were very affectionate to each other. The Court dresses had
gold threads woven in them, very bright and beautiful.

The middle of the room was left clear, and different people came and did
amusing things. There were conjurers and jugglers and snake-charmers,
which last Anthea did not like at all.

When it got dark torches were lighted. Cedar splinters dipped in oil
blazed in copper dishes set high on poles.

Then there was a dancer, who hardly danced at all, only just struck
attitudes. She had hardly any clothes, and was not at all pretty. The
children were rather bored by her, but everyone else was delighted,
including the King
he cried
said the dancer
And the King was so pleased with this modest and sensible reply that he
gave her the gold collar off his own neck
said Cyril, awed by the magnificence of the gift
whispered the Queen
said Anthea quickly. The minstrels had been playing off
and on all the time, and their music reminded Anthea of the band she and
the others had once had on the fifth of November -- with penny horns,
a tin whistle, a tea-tray, the tongs, a policeman's rattle, and a toy
drum. They had enjoyed this band very much at the time. But it was quite
different when someone else was making the same kind of music.
Anthea understood now that Father had not been really heartless and
unreasonable when he had told them to stop that infuriating din
Cyril was asking
suggested Anthea
Jane, the alto, was missing, and Robert, unlike the mother of the lady
in the song, never could 'keep the key', but the song, even so, was
sufficiently unlike anything any of them had ever heard to rouse the
Babylonian Court to the wildest enthusiasm
cried the King
So they sang:

   'I saw her bower at twilight gray,
   'Twas guarded safe and sure.
   I saw her bower at break of day
Shouts of applause greeted the ending of the verse, and the King would
not be satisfied till they had sung all their part-songs (they only knew
three) twice over, and ended up with 'Men of Harlech' in unison. Then
the King stood up in his royal robes with his high, narrow crown on his
head and shouted
whispered
Anthea
said Robert
said Anthea. But Robert, who was
excited by the music, and the flaring torches, and the applause and the
opportunity, spoke up before the others could stop him
he said, adding as an afterthought
As he spoke the great name those in the pillared hall fell on their
faces, and lay still. All but the Queen who crouched amid her cushions
with her head in her hands, and the King, who stood upright, perfectly
still, like the statue of a king in stone. It was only for a moment
though. Then his great voice thundered out
Instantly, from nowhere as it seemed, sprang eight soldiers in bright
armour inlaid with gold, and tunics of red and white. Very splendid they
were, and very alarming
shouted the King
A wall of scarlet and white and steel and gold closed up round the
children and hurried them away among the many pillars of the great hall.
As they went they heard the voices of the courtiers loud in horror
said Cyril with extreme bitterness
said Anthea
desperately.

They could not see where they were going, because the guard surrounded
them so closely, but the ground under their feet, smooth marble at
first, grew rougher like stone, then it was loose earth and sand, and
they felt the night air. Then there was more stone, and steps down
said Cyril.

And they were. At least it was not below a moat, but below the river
Euphrates, which was just as bad if not worse. In a most unpleasant
place it was. Dark, very, very damp, and with an odd, musty smell rather
like the shells of oysters. There was a torch -- that is to say, a copper
basket on a high stick with oiled wood burning in it. By its light the
children saw that the walls were green, and that trickles of water ran
down them and dripped from the roof. There were things on the floor that
looked like newts, and in the dark corners creepy, shiny things moved
sluggishly, uneasily, horribly.

Robert's heart sank right into those really reliable boots of
his. Anthea and Cyril each had a private struggle with that inside
disagreeableness which is part of all of us, and which is sometimes
called the Old Adam -- and both were victors. Neither of them said to
Robert (and both tried hard not even to think it
Anthea had the additional temptation to add
And she
resisted it successfully
said the captain of the guard to the
gaoler
said the gaoler
said the captain
The soldiers tramped heavily off in their white and red and steel and
gold. The gaoler, with a bunch of big keys in his hand, stood looking
pityingly at the children. He shook his head twice and went out
said Anthea
said Cyril bitterly. And Robert suddenly said
What he had forgotten was that his father was 3,000 miles and 5,000 or
more years away from him
said Cyril; and Anthea got hold of Robert's
hand and squeezed it.

Then the gaoler came back with a platter of hard, flat cakes made of
coarse grain, very different from the cream-and-juicy-date feasts of the
palace; also a pitcher of water
he said
said Anthea feverishly
said the gaoler, pointing to a heap of straw in a corner
said Anthea
said the gaoler grimly
said three trembling voices, which their owners strove in
vain to render firm. Then he went out, and the three were left alone in
the damp, dim vault
said Cyril, looking at the
flickering brazier
suggested Anthea
So they tried. But the blank silence of the damp dungeon remained
unchanged
asked Cyril suddenly
said Robert
Then Anthea pulled herself together. All her muscles tightened, and the
muscles of her mind and soul, if you can call them that, tightened too
she cried in a fervent voice
There was a waiting silence. Then a cold, blue light awoke in the corner
where the straw was -- and in the light they saw coming towards them a
strange and terrible figure. I won't try to describe it, because the
drawing shows it, exactly as it was, and exactly as the old Babylonians
carved it on their stones, so that you can see it in our own British
Museum at this day. I will just say that it had eagle's wings and an
eagle's head and the body of a man.

It came towards them, strong and unspeakably horrible
cried Anthea; but Cyril cried
The creature hesitated, then bowed low before them on the damp floor of
the dungeon
it said, in a harsh, grating voice like large rusty keys being
turned in locks
said Robert
cried Anthea
Nisroch raised his great arm and pointed at the wall of the dungeon.
And, as he pointed, the wall disappeared, and instead of the damp,
green, rocky surface, there shone and glowed a room with rich hangings
of red silk embroidered with golden water-lilies, with cushioned couches
and great mirrors of polished steel; and in it was the Queen, and
before her, on a red pillow, sat the Psammead, its fur hunched up in
an irritated, discontented way. On a blue-covered couch lay Jane fast
asleep
said Nisroch
said Cyril
cried Anthea, not in the least knowing what she was
saying
She caught the hand of the creature, and it was cold and hard in hers,
like a hand of stone
said Nisroch. And they went
said the Queen as they stood before her
said Anthea
She shook Jane with energy, and Jane slowly awoke
said the Queen
said Anthea with desperate earnestness. She thought she
knew enough of what the Babylonians were like when they were roused
echoed the Queen
Jane sat up, blinking stupidly
cried Cyril, catching up the Psammead,
which mechanically bit him, but only very slightly
asked Jane
said the Queen
said Jane sleepily, and held up the charm.

And there they all were in the dining-room at 300, Fitzroy Street
cried Cyril with great presence of mind
Jane went
he said quickly, as the sound of her boots grew less loud
on the stairs
said Cyril; but Anthea felt that she could not have said a
word to save her life
asked Jane, returning
with the plate of sand
said Cyril carelessly
said Cyril to Jane, when he and the
others had told her all about the Queen's talk and the banquet, and the
variety entertainment, carefully stopping short before the beginning of
the dungeon part of the story
said Jane
said Cyril
said Jane
said Cyril
said Jane
The Psammead, roused from its sound sleep, told the same story
it added
The children did not know the meaning of rudimentary, but it sounded a
rude, insulting word
said Cyril sulkily
said the Psammead with withering irony
said Robert
rejoined the
Sand-fairy
said Cyril, with a sigh of resignation
asked the Psammead
morosely
And then everybody remembered with pain that the bass bag had, in the
hurry of departure from Babylon, not been remembered
said Robert hastily
said the Psammead very crossly indeed
And it went then and there to sand, which, as you know, meant to bed.
The boys went to St James's Park to feed the ducks, but they went alone.

Anthea and Jane sat sewing all the afternoon. They cut off half a yard
from each of their best green Liberty sashes. A towel cut in two formed
a lining; and they sat and sewed and sewed and sewed. What they were
making was a bag for the Psammead. Each worked at a half of the bag.
jane's half had four-leaved shamrocks embroidered on it. They were the
only things she could do (because she had been taught how at school,
and, fortunately, some of the silk she had been taught with was left
over). And even so, Anthea had to draw the pattern for her. Anthea's
side of the bag had letters on it -- worked hastily but affectionately in
chain stitch. They were something like this:

PSAMS TRAVEL CAR

She would have put 'travelling carriage', but she made the letters too
big, so there was no room. The bag was made INTO a bag with old Nurse's
sewing machine, and the strings of it were Anthea's and Jane's best
red hair ribbons. At tea-time, when the boys had come home with a most
unfavourable report of the St james's Park ducks, Anthea ventured to
awaken the Psammead, and to show it its new travelling bag
it said, sniffing a little contemptuously, yet at the same time
affectionately
The Psammead seemed to pick up very easily the kind of things that
people said nowadays. For a creature that had in its time associated
with Megatheriums and Pterodactyls, its quickness was really wonderful
it said
said Cyril. But
Jane said
The others exchanged looks of silent rejoicing at the thought of their
cleverness in having concealed from Jane the terrors they had suffered
in the dungeon below the Euphrates
Jane went on
said Anthea shuddering
There was a good deal of discussion, but it all ended in everybody's
agreeing to Jane's idea. And next morning directly after breakfast
(which was kippers and very nice) the Psammead was invited to get into
his travelling carriage.

The moment after it had done so, with stiff, furry reluctance, like that
of a cat when you want to nurse it, and its ideas are not the same as
yours, old Nurse came in
she said
said Anthea
said old Nurse
She cleared away the kipper bones and the tea-things, and when she had
swept up the crumbs and removed the cloth, the Amulet was held up and
the order given -- just as Duchesses (and other people) give it to their
coachmen
said Anthea, when Cyril had uttered the wonderful
Name of Power
added Jane.

And there, in the dingy Fitzroy Street dining-room, the Amulet grew
big, and it was an arch, and through it they saw a blue, blue sky and a
running river
said Cyril, and pulled down jane's hand with the Amulet in
it
he said
asked Jane impatiently, trying to get her
hand away from Cyril
said Cyril. And then
everyone saw it.


For some days life flowed in a very slow, dusty, uneventful stream.

The children could never go out all at once, because they never knew
when the King of Babylon would go out lion hunting and leave his Queen
free to pay them that surprise visit to which she was, without doubt,
eagerly looking forward.

So they took it in turns, two and two, to go out and to stay in.

The stay-at-homes would have been much duller than they were but for the
new interest taken in them by the learned gentleman.

He called Anthea in one day to show her a beautiful necklace of purple
and gold beads
she said
said Anthea
cautiously
said the learned gentleman
The
other three were all out that day. The boys had been going to the Zoo,
and Jane had said so plaintively
that Anthea had told her to run along then.
And she had run, catching the boys before that part of the road where
Fitzroy Street suddenly becomes Fitzroy Square
said Anthea
said he. So she sat down and told. And he
asked her a lot of questions, and she answered them as well as she
could
he said at last
He suddenly put a cold, thin hand on her forehead
said she
he went on
said Anthea reassuringly
It was not quite so simple when Anthea, having heard the others come
in, went down, and before she had had time to ask how they had liked the
Zoo, heard a noise outside, compared to which the wild beasts' noises
were gentle as singing birds
cried Anthea
The loud hum of many voices came through the open window. Words could be
distinguished.

''Ere's a guy
looney, I tell you.'

Then came a clear voice that they knew
it said
cried a dozen voices
one voice replied.

The children rushed to the door. A crowd was on the road and pavement.

In the middle of the crowd, plainly to be seen from the top of the
steps, were the beautiful face and bright veil of the Babylonian Queen
cried Robert, and ran down the steps
he cried
snorted a fat woman with marrows
on a handcart.

All the same the crowd made way a little. The Queen met Robert on the
pavement, and Cyril joined them, the Psammead bag still on his arm
he whispered
said
Robert
said the Queen
The Psammead blew itself out till the bag was a very tight fit for it;
and suddenly every man, woman, and child in that crowd felt that it had
not enough clothes on. For, of course, the Queen's idea of proper dress
was the dress that had been proper for the working-classes 3,000 years
ago in Babylon -- and there was not much of it
said the marrow-selling woman
and she wheeled her cart away very quickly
indeed
said a man who sold
bootlaces
said the man next to him
said the
bootlace-seller
The crowd was all talking at once, and getting rather angry. But no one
seemed to think of blaming the Queen.

Anthea bounded down the steps and pulled her up; the others followed,
and the door was shut
they heard
And the crowd, coming slowly to the same mind, dispersed, followed by
another crowd of persons who were not dressed in what the Queen thought
was the proper way
said Anthea in the tones of
despair
The Queen leaned against the arm of the horse-hair sofa
she questioned
said Cyril
she remarked in an injured tone
said Robert
she said loftily
said Cyril
said the Queen disparagingly
The girls shuddered
the Queen went on pleasantly
asked Jane
I really am not going to explain AGAIN how it was that the children
could understand other languages than their own so thoroughly, and talk
them, too, so that it felt and sounded (to them) just as though they
were talking English
said Cyril bluntly
said the Queen, arranging her starry veil
said Anthea in haste
she
added kindly, because she remembered how nice the Queen had been to them
in Babylon, even if she had been a little deceitful in the matter of
Jane and Psammead
said Cyril hopefully
said Anthea suddenly
The blue silk, lace-trimmed cloak did indeed hide some of the Queen's
startling splendours, but the hat fitted very badly. It had pink roses
in it; and there was something about the coat or the hat or the Queen,
that made her look somehow not very respectable
said Anthea, when Cyril whispered this
said Robert
The blue silk coat and the pink-rosed hat attracted almost as much
attention as the royal costume had done; and the children were
uncommonly glad to get out of the noisy streets into the grey quiet of
the Museum
said a man at the counter.

The party had no umbrellas, and the only parcel was the bag containing
the Psammead, which the Queen had insisted should be brought
said the Psammead softly
said Anthea hastily, and went to sit on
the seat near the drinking fountain
said the creature crossly
Anthea obediently moved to another seat and waited. Indeed she waited,
and waited, and waited, and waited, and waited. The Psammead dropped
into an uneasy slumber. Anthea had long ceased to watch the swing-door
that always let out the wrong person, and she was herself almost asleep,
and still the others did not come back.

It was quite a start when Anthea suddenly realized that they HAD come
back, and that they were not alone. Behind them was quite a crowd of
men in uniform, and several gentlemen were there. Everyone seemed very
angry
said the nicest of the angry gentlemen
said the
nastiest gentleman
added the nice one, who was
really very nice indeed, and seemed to be over all the others
asked Robert.

The nicest gentleman nodded, and the officials stood round the Queen,
the others forming a sort of guard while Robert crossed over to Anthea
he replied to Anthea's glance of inquiry
said Anthea, and went up to the Queen
she said
The Queen nodded
said the nastiest gentleman
said Anthea bashfully
said the nice gentleman
Anthea took the Queen's hand and gently pulled her away. The other
children followed, and the black crowd of angry gentlemen stood on the
steps watching them. It was when the little party of disgraced children,
with the Queen who had disgraced them, had reached the middle of the
courtyard that her eyes fell on the bag where the Psammead was. She
stopped short
she said, very loud and clear
said the Psammead in its bag, but it
puffed itself out.

Next moment there was a crash. The glass swing doors and all their
framework were smashed suddenly and completely. The crowd of angry
gentlemen sprang aside when they saw what had done this.

But the nastiest of them was not quick enough, and he was roughly pushed
out of the way by an enormous stone bull that was floating steadily
through the door. It came and stood beside the Queen in the middle of
the courtyard.

It was followed by more stone images, by great slabs of carved stone,
bricks, helmets, tools, weapons, fetters, wine-jars, bowls, bottles,
vases, jugs, saucers, seals, and the round long things, something like
rolling pins with marks on them like the print of little bird-feet,
necklaces, collars, rings, armlets, earrings -- heaps and heaps and
heaps of things, far more than anyone had time to count, or even to see
distinctly.

All the angry gentlemen had abruptly sat down on the Museum steps except
the nice one. He stood with his hands in his pockets just as though
he was quite used to seeing great stone bulls and all sorts of small
Babylonish objects float out into the Museum yard.

But he sent a man to close the big iron gates.

A journalist, who was just leaving the museum, spoke to Robert as he
passed
he said
said Robert recklessly.

The journalist passed through the gates just before they were shut.

He rushed off to Fleet Street, and his paper got out a new edition
within half an hour.

   MRS BESANT AND THEOSOPHY

   IMPERTINENT MIRACLE AT THE BRITISH MUSEUM.

People saw it in fat, black letters on the boards carried by the sellers
of newspapers. Some few people who had nothing better to do went down
to the Museum on the tops of omnibuses. But by the time they got there
there was nothing to be seen. For the Babylonian Queen had suddenly seen
the closed gates, had felt the threat of them, and had said
And, of course, instantly they were.

The Psammead was furious
it said
said the Queen serenely
The Psammead swelled and shrank and spoke very angrily
it said
whispered Anthea close to its bristling ear
said the Psammead a little less crossly
said the Queen.

The children looked at each other
said the Queen, taking a ring from her finger
said Cyril bitterly
said the Queen
said Anthea, and ran up to him with the ring in
her hand
she said
he said in tones of joy and amazement, and took the ring into his
hand
said Anthea
said the learned gentleman
said Anthea carefully
he asked hopefully
said Anthea
he said slowly
he uneasily asked
said Anthea recklessly
he
said
said Anthea
He ran his fingers through his thin hair
he said
said Anthea
She took the sovereign and ran down to the others.

And now from the window of a four-wheeled cab the Queen of Babylon
beheld the wonders of London. Buckingham Palace she thought
uninteresting; Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament little
better. But she liked the Tower, and the River, and the ships filled her
with wonder and delight
she said, as the cab rattled along the Mile End Road
said Jane.

'Of course they're working. That's what slaves are. Don't you tell me.
Do you suppose I don't know a slave's face when I see it?

Why don't their masters see that they're better fed and better clothed?
Tell me in three words.'

No one answered. The wage-system of modern England is a little difficult
to explain in three words even if you understand it -- which the children
didn't
said the
Queen
said Cyril
asked the Queen
said the harassed Cyril
said the Queen
Instantly all the people in the Mile End Road, and in all the other
streets where poor people live, found their hands full of things to eat
and drink. From the cab window could be seen persons carrying every kind
of food, and bottles and cans as well. Roast meat, fowls, red lobsters,
great yellowy crabs, fried fish, boiled pork, beef-steak puddings, baked
onions, mutton pies; most of the young people had oranges and sweets
and cake. It made an enormous change in the look of the Mile End
Road -- brightened it up, so to speak, and brightened up, more than you
can possibly imagine, the faces of the people
said the Queen
said Jane with cordial approval.

just by the Bank the cabman stopped.

'I ain't agoin' to drive you no further,' he said
They got out rather unwillingly
he said; and they saw that on the box of the cab was a
mound of cabbage, with pork chops and apple sauce, a duck, and a spotted
currant pudding. Also a large can
he said threateningly, and looked down at the
mound, muttering again about his tea
said Cyril with dignity
But the cabman, as it turned out, was not at all a nice character. He
took the sovereign, whipped up his horse, and disappeared in the stream
of cabs and omnibuses and wagons, without giving them any change at all.

Already a little crowd was collecting round the party
said Robert, leading the wrong way.

The crowd round them thickened. They were in a narrow street where many
gentlemen in black coats and without hats were standing about on the
pavement talking very loudly
said the Queen of Babylon
And of course, it was so.

The moment the almost fainting Psammead had blown itself out every man
in Throgmorton Street appeared abruptly in Babylonian full dress.

All were carefully powdered, their hair and beards were scented and
curled, their garments richly embroidered. They wore rings and armlets,
flat gold collars and swords, and impossible-looking head-dresses.

A stupefied silence fell on them
a youth who had always been fair-haired broke that silence
said his friend
bad tream,' said old Levinstein to his
clerk
said the clerk, looking down at his legs
with an expression of loathing
said old Mr Levinstein. A bad tream -- a bad
tream.'

The Members of the Stock Exchange are said to be at all times a noisy
lot. But the noise they made now to express their disgust at the
costumes of ancient Babylon was far louder than their ordinary row. One
had to shout before one could hear oneself speak
said the clerk who thought it was conjuring -- he was quite
close to the children and they trembled, because they knew that whatever
he wished would come true
And, of course, instantly they did know, and they pressed round the
Queen
two or three voices shouted at once.

The Queen recoiled
she asked
said Cyril briefly
cried the Queen. The exhausted Psammead
was panting and trembling, but the Queen's guards in red and green
garments, and brass and iron gear, choked Throgmorton Street, and bared
weapons flashed round the Queen
said a Mr Rosenbaum
said his partner
The members of the Stock Exchange had edged carefully away from the
gleaming blades, the mailed figures, the hard, cruel Eastern faces.

But Throgmorton Street is narrow, and the crowd was too thick for them
to get away as quickly as they wished
cried the Queen
The guards obeyed
cried Mr Levinstein, cowering in a doorway behind
his clerk
said the clerk
And, of course, instantly it was! The entire Stock Exchange rubbed its
eyes and went back to close, to over, and either side of seven-eights,
and Trunks, and Kaffirs, and Steel Common, and Contangoes, and
Backwardations, Double Options, and all the interesting subjects
concerning which they talk in the Street without ceasing.

No one said a word about it to anyone else. I think I have explained
before that business men do not like it to be known that they have
been dreaming in business hours. Especially mad dreams including such
dreadful things as hungry people getting dinners, and the destruction of
the Stock Exchange.


The children were in the dining-room at 300, Fitzroy Street, pale and
trembling. The Psammead crawled out of the embroidered bag, and lay flat
on the table, its leg stretched out, looking more like a dead hare than
anything else
said Anthea, drawing a deep breath
asked Jane tremulously
said Cyril
said Robert
said Anthea politely, following the sound of her
knock into the presence of the learned gentleman
said he, looking kindly at her through his spectacles
He sighed
he said smiling. He was really learning to smile
quite nicely.

Anthea could not be too thankful that the Psammead was not there to
grant his wish
You will understand that the adventure of the Babylonian queen in London
was the only one that had occupied any time at all. But the children's
time was very fully taken up by talking over all the wonderful things
seen and done in the Past, where, by the power of the Amulet, they
seemed to spend hours and hours, only to find when they got back to
London that the whole thing had been briefer than a lightning flash.

They talked of the Past at their meals, in their walks, in the
dining-room, in the first-floor drawing-room, but most of all on the
stairs. It was an old house; it had once been a fashionable one, and was
a fine one still. The banister rails of the stairs were excellent for
sliding down, and in the corners of the landings were big alcoves that
had once held graceful statues, and now quite often held the graceful
forms of Cyril, Robert, Anthea, and Jane.

One day Cyril and Robert in tight white underclothing had spent a
pleasant hour in reproducing the attitudes of statues seen either in the
British Museum, or in Father's big photograph book. But the show ended
abruptly because Robert wanted to be the Venus of Milo, and for this
purpose pulled at the sheet which served for drapery at the very moment
when Cyril, looking really quite like the Discobolos -- with a gold and
white saucer for the disc -- was standing on one foot, and under that one
foot was the sheet.

Of course the Discobolos and his disc and the would-be Venus came down
together, and everyone was a good deal hurt, especially the saucer,
which would never be the same again, however neatly one might join its
uneven bits with Seccotine or the white of an egg
said Cyril, holding his head where a large
lump was rising
said Robert bitterly. His thumb had caught in the
banisters and bent itself back almost to breaking point
said Anthea
said Robert disagreeably. But he went.

When he came back Cyril's head had been bandaged by his sisters, and he
had been brought to the state of mind where he was able reluctantly to
admit that he supposed Robert hadn't done it on purpose.

Robert replying with equal suavity, Anthea hastened to lead the talk
away from the accident
she
said
said Jane promptly
said Cyril
It was indeed, hot, even on the second landing,
which was the coolest place in the house
said Robert
said Jane
The Psammead was brought up in its green silk embroidered bag, but
before it could be asked anything the door of the learned gentleman's
room opened and the voice of the visitor who had been lunching with him
was heard on the stairs. He seemed to be speaking with the door handle
in his hand
he said
said the learned gentleman
said the voice of the learned gentleman
The door was banged, and the visitor came smiling down the stairs -- a
stout, prosperous, big man. The children had to get up to let him pass
he said, glancing at the bandages on the head of Cyril
and the hand of Robert
said Cyril
said Jane soothingly
said the visitor
said Cyril doubtfully
asked Anthea, made anxious by a sudden
thought
He went down the stairs three at a time, and Jane remarked that he was a
nice man, and she thought he had little girls of his own
she added pensively.

The three elder ones exchanged glances. Cyril nodded
he said
said
Anthea
asked Jane
said Cyril shortly
said Robert
he added, forestalling the
question on Jane's lips
said Anthea.

This was how it was that the learned gentleman, permitting himself a few
moments of relaxation in his chair, after the fatigue of listening to
opinions (about Atlantis and many other things) with which he did not
at all agree, opened his eyes to find his four young friends standing in
front of him in a row
said Anthea
he told himself
So he said aloud
said Cyril
said the learned gentleman, now quite certain that he was
dreaming.

Anthea held out her soft, pink hand. He took it. She pulled him gently
to his feet. Jane held up the Amulet
said Cyril, and Jane said the Name of Power
said Robert
said the Psammead, kicking and struggling in its
bag.

But already the Amulet had grown to a great arch. Cyril pushed the
learned gentleman, as undoubtedly the first-born, through the arch -- not
into water, but on to a wooden floor, out of doors. The others followed.
The Amulet grew smaller again, and there they all were, standing on the
deck of a ship whose sailors were busy making her fast with chains to
rings on a white quay-side. The rings and the chains were of a metal
that shone red-yellow like gold.

Everyone on the ship seemed too busy at first to notice the group of
newcomers from Fitzroy Street. Those who seemed to be officers were
shouting orders to the men.

They stood and looked across the wide quay to the town that rose beyond
it. What they saw was the most beautiful sight any of them had ever
seen -- or ever dreamed of.

The blue sea sparkled in soft sunlight; little white-capped waves broke
softly against the marble breakwaters that guarded the shipping of a
great city from the wilderness of winter winds and seas. The quay was of
marble, white and sparkling with a veining bright as gold. The city
was of marble, red and white. The greater buildings that seemed to be
temples and palaces were roofed with what looked like gold and silver,
but most of the roofs were of copper that glowed golden-red on the
houses on the hills among which the city stood, and shaded into
marvellous tints of green and blue and purple where they had been
touched by the salt sea spray and the fumes of the dyeing and smelting
works of the lower town.

Broad and magnificent flights of marble stairs led up from the quay to a
sort of terrace that seemed to run along for miles, and beyond rose the
town built on a hill.

The learned gentleman drew a long breath
he said
said Robert
said Anthea,
with gentle politeness
he said timidly
said Anthea with an effort. It seemed such a cheek
to be saying Jimmy to a grown-up man
she added, with no
effort at all. Jimmy smiled and looked pleased.

But now the ship was made fast, and the Captain had time to notice other
things. He came towards them, and he was dressed in the best of all
possible dresses for the seafaring life
he asked rather fiercely
said Cyril
he went
on explanatorily
said the Captain; no one had expected that he would
he pointed to the learned gentleman
said Anthea
asked the Captain, fingering a rope
she added hastily, remembering the
Babylonian writing
Some sudden impulse of confidence made Jane pluck the Amulet from the
neck of her frock
she said.

The Captain looked at it curiously, but, the other three were relieved
to notice, without any of that overwhelming interest which the mere name
of it had roused in Egypt and Babylon
he said
said Anthea hesitatingly.

The Captain repeated
he added
said Robert
said the Captain
said Robert
said the Captain
said an old sailor who stood near
said the Captain.

There was a rather anxious pause; then the Captain stepped on to the
quay, and the others followed him
said Anthea as they went
he said earnestly
No one else could think of anything to say, so that it was in complete
silence that they followed the Captain up the marble steps and through
the streets of the town. There were streets and shops and houses and
markets
whispered Jane
Anthea whispered to Cyril
he said
There were no horses or chariots in the street, but there were handcarts
and low trolleys running on thick log-wheels, and porters carrying
packets on their heads, and a good many of the people were riding on
what looked like elephants, only the great beasts were hairy, and they
had not that mild expression we are accustomed to meet on the faces of
the elephants at the Zoo
murmured the learned gentleman, and stumbled over a loose
stone.

The people in the streets kept crowding round them as they went along,
but the Captain always dispersed the crowd before it grew uncomfortably
thick by saying
And then the people would draw back with a low murmur that sounded like
a suppressed cheer.

Many of the buildings were covered with gold, but the gold on the bigger
buildings was of a different colour, and they had sorts of steeples of
burnished silver rising above them
asked Jane
answered the Captain
The learned gentleman, now very pale, stumbled along in a dazed way,
repeating
said Anthea
he pleaded fervently
said the
Captain, noticing the blundering walk of the learned gentleman
He stopped at the gate of a great enclosure. It seemed to be a sort of
park, for trees showed high above its brazen wall.

The party waited, and almost at once the Captain came back with one of
the hairy elephants and begged them to mount.

This they did.

It was a glorious ride. The elephant at the Zoo -- to ride on him is also
glorious, but he goes such a very little way, and then he goes back
again, which is always dull. But this great hairy beast went on and on
and on along streets and through squares and gardens. It was a glorious
city; almost everything was built of marble, red, or white, or black.
Every now and then the party crossed a bridge.

It was not till they had climbed to the hill which is the centre of the
town that they saw that the whole city was divided into twenty circles,
alternately land and water, and over each of the water circles were the
bridges by which they had come.

And now they were in a great square. A vast building filled up one side
of it; it was overlaid with gold, and had a dome of silver. The rest of
the buildings round the square were of oricalchum. And it looked more
splendid than you can possibly imagine, standing up bold and shining in
the sunlight
said the Captain, as the hairy elephant went
clumsily down on his knees
The children had never before bathed in baths of gold
said Cyril, splashing
said
Robert
The bathing hall had several great pools sunk below the level of the
floor; one went down to them by steps
said Anthea timidly, when, very clean and boiled-looking, they
all met in the flowery courtyard of the Public
said he
he added awkwardly
said the Captain
He
pushed through a little crowd of boys who were playing with dried
chestnuts fastened to a string
remarked Robert
They could see now that three walls surrounded the island on which they
were. The outermost wall was of brass, the Captain told them; the next,
which looked like silver, was covered with tin; and the innermost one
was of oricalchum.

And right in the middle was a wall of gold, with golden towers and
gates
said the Captain
He told them what they ought to say, and the five people from Fitzroy
Street took hands and went forward. The golden gates slowly opened
said Cyril, as he had been told
asked a white-robed
man who stood in the doorway with his arms extended
replied Cyril, and he hesitated as Anthea had done.
It really did seem to be taking a great liberty with so learned a
gentleman
he whispered anxiously
said the learned gentleman
said Cyril
said the learned gentleman.

The white-robed priest had been joined by others, and all were bowing
low
he said
In an inner courtyard stood the Temple -- all of silver, with gold
pinnacles and doors, and twenty enormous statues in bright gold of men
and women. Also an immense pillar of the other precious yellow metal.

They went through the doors, and the priest led them up a stair into a
gallery from which they could look down on to the glorious place
said the priest, and fell face downward on the floor outside
the gallery. The children looked down.

The roof was of ivory adorned with the three precious metals, and the
walls were lined with the favourite oricalchum.

At the far end of the Temple was a statue group, the like of which no
one living has ever seen.

It was of gold, and the head of the chief figure reached to the roof.
That figure was Poseidon, the Father of the City. He stood in a great
chariot drawn by six enormous horses, and round about it were a hundred
mermaids riding on dolphins.

Ten men, splendidly dressed and armed only with sticks and ropes, were
trying to capture one of some fifteen bulls who ran this way and that
about the floor of the Temple. The children held their breath, for the
bulls looked dangerous, and the great horned heads were swinging more
and more wildly.

Anthea did not like looking at the bulls. She looked about the gallery,
and noticed that another staircase led up from it to a still higher
storey; also that a door led out into the open air, where there seemed
to be a balcony.

So that when a shout went up and Robert whispered
and she
looked down and saw the herd of bulls being driven out of the Temple by
whips, and the ten Kings following, one of them spurring with his
stick a black bull that writhed and fought in the grip of a lasso, she
answered the boy's agitated
with
So they crowded out.

But very soon the girls crept back
Jane said. So she and Anthea went and talked
to the priest, who was no longer lying on his face, but sitting on the
top step mopping his forehead with his robe, for it was a hot day
he said
asked Jane kindly
asked the Psammead, suddenly putting
its head out of its bag
said the priest
it
turned to Anthea
The girls obediently went to find their brothers, who were
leaning on the balcony railings
asked Anthea
said the priest, who had come with them
The ten Kings were no longer alone. The learned gentleman -- no one had
noticed how he got there -- stood with them on the steps of an altar, on
which lay the dead body of the black bull. All the rest of the courtyard
was thick with people, seemingly of all classes, and all were shouting
said the most kingly of the Kings, he who had lassoed the
bull
whined the Psammead
said Anthea firmly
she called
and waved to him. He heard her, and began
to come towards her through the crowd. They could see from the balcony
the sea-captain edging his way out from among the people. And his face
was dead white, like paper
he cried in a loud and terrible voice. And above his
voice came another voice, louder, more terrible -- the voice of the sea.

The girls looked seaward.

Across the smooth distance of the sea something huge and black rolled
towards the town. It was a wave, but a wave a hundred feet in height, a
wave that looked like a mountain -- a wave rising higher and higher till
suddenly it seemed to break in two -- one half of it rushed out to sea
again; the other
cried Anthea
said Robert but his voice
trembled. They hid their eyes for a moment. They could not bear to look
down, for the wave had broken on the face of the town, sweeping over
the quays and docks, overwhelming the great storehouses and factories,
tearing gigantic stones from forts and bridges, and using them as
battering rams against the temples. Great ships were swept over the
roofs of the houses and dashed down halfway up the hill among ruined
gardens and broken buildings. The water ground brown fishing-boats to
powder on the golden roofs of Palaces.

Then the wave swept back towards the sea
cried the Psammead fiercely
said Jane, and the boys were ready -- but the learned
gentleman had not come.

Then suddenly they heard him dash up to the inner gallery, crying
He rushed up the higher flight.

The others followed him. They found themselves in a sort of
turret -- roofed, but open to the air at the sides.

The learned gentleman was leaning on the parapet, and as they
rejoined him the vast wave rushed back on the town. This time it rose
higher -- destroyed more
cried the Psammead
It pointed with a claw that trembled
cried Jane, holding up the Amulet
cried the learned gentleman
said Cyril
appealed Anthea
said the Psammead
said the learned gentleman
obstinately.

The hills around were black with people fleeing from the villages to the
mountains. And even as they fled thin smoke broke from the great white
peak, and then a faint flash of flame. Then the volcano began to throw
up its mysterious fiery inside parts. The earth trembled; ashes and
sulphur showered down; a rain of fine pumice-stone fell like snow on all
the dry land. The elephants from the forest rushed up towards the peaks;
great lizards thirty yards long broke from the mountain pools and
rushed down towards the sea. The snows melted and rushed down, first in
avalanches, then in roaring torrents. Great rocks cast up by the volcano
fell splashing in the sea miles away
cried Anthea
gasped the learned gentleman
cried the Psammead suddenly. The place where they
stood was now crowded with men and women, and the children were strained
tight against the parapet. The turret rocked and swayed; the wave had
reached the golden wall.

Jane held up the Amulet
cried the Psammead
And as Jane said it the Psammead leaped from its bag and bit the hand of
the learned gentleman.

At the same moment the boys pushed him through the arch and all followed
him.

He turned to look back, and through the arch he saw nothing but a waste
of waters, with above it the peak of the terrible mountain with fire
raging from it.


He staggered back to his chair
he gasped
said Anthea gently
The hand was indeed bleeding rather badly.

The Psammead had crept back to its bag. All the children were very
white
said the Psammead later on
said Anthea later still
said Anthea, and her voice was still rather shaky
said the Psammead very sulkily
said Cyril very much later indeed
said Robert sleepily
Robert was quite right on both points. The learned gentleman did. And he
never did
A great city swept away by the sea, a beautiful country devastated by
an active volcano -- these are not the sort of things you see every day of
the week. And when you do see them, no matter how many other wonders
you may have seen in your time, such sights are rather apt to take your
breath away. Atlantis had certainly this effect on the breaths of Cyril,
Robert, Anthea, and Jane.

They remained in a breathless state for some days. The learned gentleman
seemed as breathless as anyone; he spent a good deal of what little
breath he had in telling Anthea about a wonderful dream he had
he said
But Anthea could believe it, she said, quite easily.

He had ceased to talk about thought-transference. He had now seen too
many wonders to believe that.

In consequence of their breathless condition none of the children
suggested any new excursions through the Amulet. Robert voiced the mood
of the others when he said that they were 'fed up' with Amulet for a
bit. They undoubtedly were.

As for the Psammead, it went to sand and stayed there, worn out by
the terror of the flood and the violent exercise it had had to take in
obedience to the inconsiderate wishes of the learned gentleman and the
Babylonian queen.

The children let it sleep. The danger of taking it about among strange
people who might at any moment utter undesirable wishes was becoming
more and more plain.

And there are pleasant things to be done in London without any aid from
Amulets or Psammeads. You can, for instance visit the Tower of London,
the Houses of Parliament, the National Gallery, the Zoological Gardens,
the various Parks, the Museums at South Kensington, Madame Tussaud's
Exhibition of Waxworks, or the Botanical Gardens at Kew. You can go to
Kew by river steamer -- and this is the way that the children would have
gone if they had gone at all. Only they never did, because it was when
they were discussing the arrangements for the journey, and what they
should take with them to eat and how much of it, and what the whole
thing would cost, that the adventure of the Little Black Girl began to
happen.

The children were sitting on a seat in St James's Park. They had been
watching the pelican repulsing with careful dignity the advances of the
seagulls who are always so anxious to play games with it. The pelican
thinks, very properly, that it hasn't the figure for games, so it spends
most of its time pretending that that is not the reason why it won't
play.

The breathlessness caused by Atlantis was wearing off a little. Cyril,
who always wanted to understand all about everything, was turning things
over in his mind
he answered when Robert asked him what he
was so grumpy about
said Jane
retorted Cyril mildly
said Robert; and the girls laughed
said Cyril
said Anthea
said Robert kindly
said Cyril
said Anthea hastily
All disagreeableness was swept away in a pleasant tide of recollections,
and
they said
remarked Cyril pensively, as the flood of reminiscence ebbed a
little
said Robert
said Jane anxiously
Cyril replied; and just then they
heard the Little Black Girl sniff. She was quite close to them.

She was not really a little black girl. She was shabby and not very
clean, and she had been crying so much that you could hardly see,
through the narrow chink between her swollen lids, how very blue her
eyes were. It was her dress that was black, and it was too big and too
long for her, and she wore a speckled black-ribboned sailor hat that
would have fitted a much bigger head than her little flaxen one. And she
stood looking at the children and sniffing
said Anthea, jumping up
She put her hand on the little girl's arm. It was rudely shaken off
said the little girl
Anthea asked
said the little girl fiercely
said Robert, pulling at Anthea's sleeve
said Anthea
she
asked again
the child repeated
to the
Union
said Anthea; and Jane added
said the little girl
fiercely, in tones of miserable triumph. Then she opened her swollen
eyes widely, stamped her foot in fury, and ran away. She ran no further
than to the next bench, flung herself down there and began to cry
without even trying not to.

Anthea, quite at once, went to the little girl and put her arms as tight
as she could round the hunched-up black figure
she whispered under the brim of
the large sailor hat, now very crooked indeed
The others stood at a distance. One or two passers-by stared curiously.

The child was now only crying part of the time; the rest of the time she
seemed to be talking to Anthea.

Presently Anthea beckoned Cyril
she said in a furious whisper
said Jane brightly.

And as no one else could think of anything better the whole party walked
back to Fitzroy Street as fast as it could, the little girl holding
tight to Anthea's hand and now not crying any more, only sniffing
gently.

The learned gentleman looked up from his writing with the smile that had
grown much easier to him than it used to be. They were quite at home
in his room now; it really seemed to welcome them. Even the mummy-case
appeared to smile as if in its distant superior ancient Egyptian way it
were rather pleased to see them than not.

Anthea sat on the stairs with Imogen, who was nine come next November,
while the others went in and explained the difficulty.

The learned gentleman listened with grave attention
Cyril concluded
Robert hopefully said
Jane added
said he, absently fingering a little blue image from Egypt
He scowled thoughtfully at the little blue image.

Anthea outside thought the explanation was taking a very long time.

She was so busy trying to cheer and comfort the little black girl that
she never noticed the Psammead who, roused from sleep by her voice, had
shaken itself free of sand, and was coming crookedly up the stairs. It
was close to her before she saw it. She picked it up and settled it in
her lap
asked the black child
And then Anthea heard the learned gentleman say
and instantly she felt the Psammead begin to blow itself out as it sat
on her lap.

She jumped up lifting the Psammead in her skirt, and holding Imogen by
the hand, rushed into the learned gentleman's room
she cried
The circle was like that formed for the Mulberry Bush or Ring-o'-Roses.
And Anthea was only able to take part in it by holding in her teeth
the hem of her frock which, thus supported, formed a bag to hold the
Psammead
asked the learned gentleman feebly. No one answered.

There was a moment of suspense; then came that curious upside-down,
inside-out sensation which one almost always feels when transported
from one place to another by magic. Also there was that dizzy dimness of
sight which comes on these occasions.

The mist cleared, the upside-down, inside-out sensation subsided,
and there stood the six in a ring, as before, only their twelve feet,
instead of standing on the carpet of the learned gentleman's room, stood
on green grass. Above them, instead of the dusky ceiling of the Fitzroy
Street floor, was a pale blue sky. And where the walls had been and the
painted mummy-case, were tall dark green trees, oaks and ashes, and in
between the trees and under them tangled bushes and creeping ivy. There
were beech-trees too, but there was nothing under them but their own
dead red drifted leaves, and here and there a delicate green fern-frond.

And there they stood in a circle still holding hands, as though they
were playing Ring-o'-Roses or the Mulberry Bush. Just six people hand in
hand in a wood. That sounds simple, but then you must remember that they
did not know WHERE the wood was, and what's more, they didn't know WHEN
then wood was. There was a curious sort of feeling that made the learned
gentleman say
and made the children almost certain that they
were in a time a very long while ago. As for little Imogen, she said
and kept her mouth very much open indeed
Cyril asked the Psammead
said the Psammead
asked Anthea anxiously
said
the Psammead crossly
it
added, sticking its head out of the bag formed by Anthea's blue linen
frock, and turning its snail's eyes to right and left
asked Anthea
the Psammead replied
said Anthea patiently, looking round on the tall gloom
of the forest
said the Psammead in irritated tones
said Anthea gently
said the
Psammead still more crossly
said Robert, taking it off. Anthea spread the coat
on the ground and, putting the Psammead on it, folded it round so that
only the eyes and furry ears showed
she said comfortingly
The others who had stopped holding hands crowded round to hear the
answer to this question. Imogen whispered in an awed tone
replied the Psammead
And it drew head
and ears into the tweed covering of Robert's coat.

The others looked at each other
said the learned gentleman hopefully
And sure enough, something did.

The brooding silence of the dark forest was broken by the laughter of
children and the sound of voices
said Cyril
said the learned gentleman to Jane, who hung back
There was a sort of break in the undergrowth that was like a silly
person's idea of a path. They went along this in Indian file, the
learned gentleman leading.

Quite soon they came to a large clearing in the forest. There were a
number of houses -- huts perhaps you would have called them -- with a sort
of mud and wood fence
whispered Anthea.

And it was, rather.

Some children, with no clothes on at all, were playing what looked like
Ring-o'-Roses or Mulberry Bush. That is to say, they were dancing round
in a ring, holding hands. On a grassy bank several women, dressed in
blue and white robes and tunics of beast-skins sat watching the playing
children.

The children from Fitzroy Street stood on the fringe of the forest
looking at the games. One woman with long, fair braided hair sat a
little apart from the others, and there was a look in her eyes as she
followed the play of the children that made Anthea feel sad and sorry
thought Anthea.

The little black-clad London child pulled at Anthea's sleeve
she said, 'that one there -- she's precious like mother; mother's
'air was somethink lovely, when she 'ad time to comb it out. Mother
wouldn't never a-beat me if she'd lived
In her eagerness the child had stepped out of the shelter of the forest.
The sad-eyed woman saw her. She stood up, her thin face lighted up
with a radiance like sunrise, her long, lean arms stretched towards the
London child
she cried -- at least the word was more like that than any other
word
There was a moment of great silence; the naked children paused in their
play, the women on the bank stared anxiously
cried Imogen-from-London, and rushed across
the cleared space. She and her mother clung together -- so closely, so
strongly that they stood an instant like a statue carved in stone.

Then the women crowded round
cried the woman
said Imogen
whispered the women who crowded round
said the fair-haired woman.

And Imogen, clinging with black-clothed arms to the bare neck,
answered --

'Oh, yes, mother, I know YOU right
the learned gentleman asked anxiously
said the Psammead
said the Psammead
said the Psammead
said the learned gentleman
The Psammead blew itself out and granted the wish. So Imogen's future
was assured. She had found someone to want her
began the learned
gentleman -- but the woman interrupted. She came towards them
she cried
The children said it wasn't worth mentioning.

I wish you could have seen all the honours and kindnesses lavished on
the children and the learned gentleman by those ancient Britons.

You would have thought, to see them, that a child was something to make
a fuss about, not a bit of rubbish to be hustled about the streets and
hidden away in the Workhouse. It wasn't as grand as the entertainment at
Babylon, but somehow it was more satisfying
said the
learned gentleman
It was when they were alone that night under the stars where the Britons
had spread a heap Of dried fern for them to sleep on, that Cyril spoke
he said
asked Jane sleepily
replied her kind brother
said Robert
said Anthea
Robert laughed.

The learned gentleman, before anyone could stop him, said
And, of course, in just the little time the Psammead took to blow itself
out for wish-giving, the five, or six counting the Psammead, found
themselves in Caesar's camp, just outside Caesar's tent. And they saw
Caesar. The Psammead must have taken advantage of the loose wording of
the learned gentleman's wish, for it was not the same time of day as
that on which the wish had been uttered among the dried ferns. It was
sunset, and the great man sat on a chair outside his tent gazing over
the sea towards Britain -- everyone knew without being told that it was
towards Britain. Two golden eagles on the top of posts stood on each
side of the tent, and on the flaps of the tent which was very gorgeous
to look at were the letters S.P.Q.R.

The great man turned unchanged on the newcomers the august glance that
he had turned on the violet waters of the Channel. Though they had
suddenly appeared out of nothing, Caesar never showed by the faintest
movement of an eyelid, by the least tightening of that firm mouth, that
they were not some long expected embassy. He waved a calm hand towards
the sentinels, who sprang weapons in hand towards the newcomers
he said in a voice that thrilled like music
To the children he seemed to speak in the only language they knew;
but the learned gentleman heard -- in rather a strange accent, but quite
intelligibly -- the lips of Caesar speaking in the Latin tongue, and in
that tongue, a little stiffly, he answered
repeated Caesar
said the learned gentleman
said Cyril
said
Anthea
the General asked
said Jane with angry eagerness
Then the others
stopped her
said Robert in a bitter undertone.

Caesar looked at the children a moment in silence. Then he called a
soldier and spoke with him apart. Then he said aloud
Nobody liked this; but when Caesar said a thing that thing was so, and
there was an end to it. So the three went.

Left alone with Jane and the learned gentleman, the great Roman found it
easy enough to turn them inside out. But it was not easy, even for him,
to make head or tail of the insides of their minds when he had got at
them.

The learned gentleman insisted that the whole thing was a dream, and
refused to talk much, on the ground that if he did he would wake up.

Jane, closely questioned, was full of information about railways,
electric lights, balloons, men-of-war, cannons, and dynamite
asked the General
Caesar wanted to know what guns were
said Jane
Jane found them hard to describe
she said. So the others were
recalled.

The boys explained the pistol to Caesar very fully, and he looked at it
with the greatest interest. It was a two-shilling pistol, the one that
had done such good service in the old Egyptian village
said Caesar
said Anthea
said Caesar
Anthea
interrupted
said Caesar, with a whimsical
look
said Cyril
said Caesar
said Cyril, worriedly
said Caesar
said Robert
Jane held up the Amulet away from the sunset, and said the word. The
learned gentleman was pushed through and the others more quickly than
ever before passed through the arch back into their own times and the
quiet dusty sitting-room of the learned gentleman.


It is a curious fact that when Caesar was encamped on the coast of
Gaul -- somewhere near Boulogne it was, I believe -- he was sitting before
his tent in the glow of the sunset, looking out over the violet waters
of the English Channel. Suddenly he started, rubbed his eyes, and called
his secretary. The young man came quickly from within the tent
said Caesar. 'I have dreamed a very wonderful dream. Some
of it I forget, but I remember enough to decide what was not before
determined. Tomorrow the ships that have been brought round from the
Ligeris shall be provisioned. We shall sail for this three-cornered
island. First, we will take but two legions.

This, if what we have heard be true, should suffice. But if my dream be
true, then a hundred legions will not suffice. For the dream I dreamed
was the most wonderful that ever tormented the brain even of Caesar. And
Caesar has dreamed some strange things in his time
said Robert to Jane as they sat down to
tea
said Anthea, pouring out
said Cyril
said Anthea stoutly
said Cyril
he
added triumphantly.

And Anthea could not deny it
said Robert
said Anthea
said the Psammead sleepily, putting its head out
of its bag and taking it in again suddenly
Everyone remembered this afterwards, when
It was the day after the adventure of Julius Caesar and the Little Black
Girl that Cyril, bursting into the bathroom to wash his hands for
dinner (you have no idea how dirty they were, for he had been playing
shipwrecked mariners all the morning on the leads at the back of the
house, where the water-cistern is), found Anthea leaning her elbows on
the edge of the bath, and crying steadily into it
he said, with brotherly concern
said Anthea fiercely
There was a stricken pause
said Cyril tamely
sobbed Anthea
Cyril carefully explained
sneered Anthea through her sniffs
he said uncomfortably
she said
Anthea was so seldom cross that when she was cross the others were
always more surprised than angry.

Cyril edged along the side of the bath and stood beside her. He put his
hand on her arm
he said, rather tenderly for him. And, finding that though
she did not at once take his advice she did not seem to resent it, he
put his arm awkwardly across her shoulders and rubbed his head against
her ear
he said, in the tone of one administering a priceless cure for
all possible sorrows
said Cyril, dismally
said Anthea, leaning her ear against his head
asked Cyril, with apparent want of
sympathy
said Cyril briefly, and the brevity of his
tone admitted a good deal
said Anthea
Cyril thumped her on the back
he said
said Anthea
but she laughed a little, and her mouth began to get back into its
proper shape. You know what an odd shape your mouth gets into when you
cry in earnest
said Cyril, working the soap round and round between his
hands in a thick slime of grey soapsuds
The grey-lined soap had squirted out under the
pressure of his fingers, and had hit Anthea's chin with as much force as
though it had been shot from a catapult
she said regretfully
said Cyril with conviction
said Anthea, who did not know a single one
said Anthea, splashing
said Anthea thoughtfully
As soon as dinner was eaten (it was tinned salmon and lettuce, and a jam
tart), and the cloth cleared away, the idea was explained to the others,
and the Psammead was aroused from sand, and asked what it thought would
be good merchandise with which to buy the affection of say, the Ancient
Egyptians, and whether it thought the Amulet was likely to be found in
the Court of Pharaoh.

But it shook its head, and shot out its snail's eyes hopelessly
it said
This advice seemed good. Soon the table was littered over with things
which the children thought likely to interest the Ancient Egyptians.
Anthea brought dolls, puzzle blocks, a wooden tea-service, a green
leather case with Necessaire written on it in gold letters. Aunt
Emma had once given it to Anthea, and it had then contained scissors,
penknife, bodkin, stiletto, thimble, corkscrew, and glove-buttoner. The
scissors, knife, and thimble, and penknife were, of course, lost, but
the other things were there and as good as new. Cyril contributed lead
soldiers, a cannon, a catapult, a tin-opener, a tie-clip, and a tennis
ball, and a padlock -- no key. Robert collected a candle
he said), a penny Japanese
pin-tray, a rubber stamp with his father's name and address on it, and a
piece of putty.

Jane added a key-ring, the brass handle of a poker, a pot that had held
cold-cream, a smoked pearl button off her winter coat, and a key -- no
lock
said Robert, with some scorn
The afternoon passed very agreeably in the attempt to choose from the
table the four most suitable objects. But the four children could not
agree what was suitable, and at last Cyril said
This was done.

Cyril touched the padlock.

Anthea got the Necessaire.

Robert clutched the candle.

Jane picked up the tie-clip
she said
said Anthea
said Cyril firmly
said Robert
said Anthea
said Jane
she insisted.

Then the Psammead was coaxed into its bag
said Cyril suddenly
said Anthea
was the general rejoinder. The charm was held up. It grew big
once again, and once again the warm golden Eastern light glowed softly
beyond it.

As the children stepped through it loud and furious voices rang in their
ears. They went suddenly from the quiet of Fitzroy Street dining-room
into a very angry Eastern crowd, a crowd much too angry to notice them.
They edged through it to the wall of a house and stood there. The crowd
was of men, women, and children. They were of all sorts of complexions,
and pictures of them might have been coloured by any child with
a shilling paint-box. The colours that child would have used for
complexions would have been yellow ochre, red ochre, light red, sepia,
and indian ink. But their faces were painted already -- black eyebrows
and lashes, and some red lips. The women wore a sort of pinafore with
shoulder straps, and loose things wound round their heads and shoulders.
The men wore very little clothing -- for they were the working people -- and
the Egyptian boys and girls wore nothing at all, unless you count
the little ornaments hung on chains round their necks and waists. The
children saw all this before they could hear anything distinctly.

Everyone was shouting so.

But a voice sounded above the other voices, and presently it was
speaking in a silence
it said, and it was the voice of a
tall, coppery-coloured man who had climbed into a chariot that had been
stopped by the crowd. Its owner had bolted, muttering something about
calling the Guards, and now the man spoke from it
A roar of applause answered him
cried a voice
cried another
whispered Robert
the speaker went on
cried half the crowd; but another voice shouted
clear above the tumult
For a moment the crowd swayed one way and another -- first towards the
granaries and then towards the palace. Then, with a rush like that of an
imprisoned torrent suddenly set free, it surged along the street towards
the palace, and the children were carried with it. Anthea found it
difficult to keep the Psammead from being squeezed very uncomfortably.

The crowd swept through the streets of dull-looking houses with few
windows, very high up, across the market where people were not buying
but exchanging goods. In a momentary pause Robert saw a basket of onions
exchanged for a hair comb and five fish for a string of beads. The
people in the market seemed better off than those in the crowd; they
had finer clothes, and more of them. They were the kind of people who,
nowadays, would have lived at Brixton or Brockley
a languid, large-eyed lady in a crimped,
half-transparent linen dress, with her black hair very much braided and
puffed out, asked of a date-seller
the man answered
said the date-seller
said the lady
said Robert.

At that moment the voice of the crowd changed, from anger to doubt, from
doubt to fear. There were other voices shouting; they shouted defiance
and menace, and they came nearer very quickly. There was the rattle of
wheels and the pounding of hoofs. A voice shouted
shouted another voice, and the crowd of
workmen took up the cry
And swaying a
little once more, the crowd hung for a moment as it were balanced. Then
as the trampling hoofs came nearer the workmen fled dispersed, up alleys
and into the courts of houses, and the Guards in their embossed leather
chariots swept down the street at the gallop, their wheels clattering
over the stones, and their dark-coloured, blue tunics blown open and
back with the wind of their going
said the crimped-linen-dressed lady
The four children had taken advantage of the moment's pause before the
crowd turned to fly, to edge themselves and drag each other into an
arched doorway.

Now they each drew a long breath and looked at the others
said Cyril
said Anthea
said Jane
Anthea explained
said Cyril in
injured tones
Robert added, glancing
across the market-place to where an enormous gateway with huge side
buildings towered towards the sky. To right and left of it were other
buildings only a little less magnificent
asked a soft voice
behind them
They turned to find beside them a young man. He was shaved clean from
head to foot, and on his feet were light papyrus sandals. He was clothed
in a linen tunic of white, embroidered heavily in colours. He was gay
with anklets, bracelets, and armlets of gold, richly inlaid. He wore
a ring on his finger, and he had a short jacket of gold embroidery
something like the Zouave soldiers wear, and on his neck was a gold
collar with many amulets hanging from it. But among the amulets the
children could see none like theirs
said Cyril frankly
said the young man
said Cyril
said the priest with courtesy
said Robert.

The Psammead stirred uneasily in its embroidered bag
asked the priest cautiously
said Cyril with equal caution
said the priest sternly
said Cyril stoutly
said the priest
unbelievingly
said Cyril
The priest's
tone was incredulous
said Cyril, taking the hint
He had pulled a match from his pocket, and as he ended the incantation
which contained no words that it seemed likely the Egyptian had ever
heard he stooped in the little crowd of his relations and the priest and
struck the match on his boot. He stood up, shielding the flame with one
hand
he said, with modest pride
said the priest, swiftly backing
he went on confidentially
The children thrilled to the familiar words
said Cyril
said the priest
This idea seemed good -- at least it was better than any other which at
that moment occurred to anybody, so they followed the priest through the
city.

The streets were very narrow and dirty. The best houses, the priest
explained, were built within walls twenty to twenty-five feet high,
and such windows as showed in the walls were very high up. The tops of
palm-trees showed above the walls. The poor people's houses were little
square huts with a door and two windows, and smoke coming out of a hole
in the back
whispered Cyril to Anthea.

The huts were roofed with palm branches, and everywhere there were
chickens, and goats, and little naked children kicking about in the
yellow dust. On one roof was a goat, who had climbed up and was eating
the dry palm-leaves with snorts and head-tossings of delight. Over every
house door was some sort of figure or shape
the priest explained
Robert whispered to Jane
Jane whispered back.

The palace was indeed much more magnificent than anything they had yet
seen that day, though it would have made but a poor show beside that
of the Babylonian King. They came to it through a great square pillared
doorway of sandstone that stood in a high brick wall. The shut doors
were of massive cedar, with bronze hinges, and were studded with bronze
nails. At the side was a little door and a wicket gate, and through
this the priest led the children. He seemed to know a word that made the
sentries make way for him.

Inside was a garden, planted with hundreds of different kinds of trees
and flowering shrubs, a lake full of fish, with blue lotus flowers at
the margin, and ducks swimming about cheerfully, and looking, as Jane
said, quite modern
said the
priest, pointing them out.

They passed through open courtyards, paved with flat stones, and the
priest whispered to a guard at a great inner gate
he said to the children
said Robert
At the outer end of the great hall a crowd of people were arguing with
and even shoving the Guards, who seemed to make it a rule not to let
anyone through unless they were bribed to do it. The children heard
several promises of the utmost richness, and wondered whether they would
ever be kept.

All round the hall were pillars of painted wood. The roof was of cedar,
gorgeously inlaid. About half-way up the hall was a wide, shallow step
that went right across the hall; then a little farther on another; and
then a steep flight of narrower steps, leading right up to the throne on
which Pharaoh sat. He sat there very splendid, his red and white double
crown on his head, and his sceptre in his hand. The throne had a canopy
of wood and wooden pillars painted in bright colours. On a low, broad
bench that ran all round the hall sat the friends, relatives, and
courtiers of the King, leaning on richly-covered cushions.

The priest led the children up the steps till they all stood before the
throne; and then, suddenly, he fell on his face with hands outstretched.
The others did the same, Anthea falling very carefully because of the
Psammead
said the voice of Pharaoh
The officers of the King's household raised them
Pharaoh asked, and added very crossly
said the young priest
said Pharaoh
The children, bowing as well as they could in their embarrassment at
finding themselves the centre of interest in a circle more grand, more
golden and more highly coloured than they could have imagined possible,
pulled out the padlock, the Necessaire, and the tie-clip
Cyril muttered
Pharaoh examined all the things with great interest when the chief of
the household had taken them up to him
he said to one near him. And to the children he said
began Rekh-mara
Cyril whispered angrily
said Pharaoh, just as the
priest had done.

So Cyril, without more ado, did it
said the King, with simple appreciation
said Anthea suddenly, and all eyes were
turned on her
said Pharaoh
he said, without turning his head
A richly-dressed official hurried out
Rekh-mara whispered joyously
Cyril struck another match, and all the court was overwhelmed with
delight and wonder. And when Cyril took the candle from his pocket and
lighted it with the match, and then held the burning candle up before
the King the enthusiasm knew no bounds
said
Rekh-mara insinuatingly
said Pharaoh shortly
The priest went with
lightning swiftness
said the King suddenly, 'is it that moves in that sack?

Show me, oh strangers.'

There was nothing for it but to show the Psammead
said Pharaoh carelessly
And instantly, the entreaties of the children availing as little as the
bites of the Psammead, though both bites and entreaties were fervent, it
was carried away from before their eyes
cried Anthea
She held up the embroidered bag
cried Robert
cried Jane incautiously
There was an awful silence. Then Pharaoh spoke
he said
sobbed Jane, as they were led away
said Cyril
sobbed Jane
The room they were shut up in WAS a room, and not a dungeon, as the
elder ones had feared. That, as Anthea said, was one comfort. There
were paintings on the wall that at any other time would have been most
interesting. And a sort of low couch, and chairs. When they were alone
Jane breathed a sigh of relief
she
said
said Anthea reproachfully
said Cyril. He pondered for a few
moments. Then he began hammering on the heavy cedar door. It opened, and
a guard put in his head
he said sternly
Cyril interrupted
said the guard
asked the soldier
said Robert
said the soldier, and he went
out and barred the door.

Then, of course, they held up the Amulet. They found the East by holding
it up, and turning slowly till the Amulet began to grow big, walked home
through it, and came back with a geranium in full scarlet flower from
the staircase window of the Fitzroy Street house
said the soldier when he came in
said
Anthea persuasively
The soldier looked at the twopence
he said.

Robert explained how much simpler it was to pay money for things than
to exchange them as the people were doing in the market. Later on the
soldier gave the coins to his captain, who, later still, showed them to
Pharaoh, who of course kept them and was much struck with the idea.
That was really how coins first came to be used in Egypt. You will not
believe this, I daresay, but really, if you believe the rest of the
story, I don't see why you shouldn't believe this as well
said Anthea, struck by a sudden thought
said the soldier
said Robert; and Anthea said softly and
coaxingly
he said
grudgingly, and went out
said Robert
said Anthea tremulously
If they had only known it, something very like the other half of the
Amulet was very near them. It hung round the neck of someone, and
that someone was watching them through a chink, high up in the wall,
specially devised for watching people who were imprisoned. But they did
not know.

There was nearly an hour of anxious waiting. They tried to take an
interest in the picture on the wall, a picture of harpers playing
very odd harps and women dancing at a feast. They examined the painted
plaster floor, and the chairs were of white painted wood with coloured
stripes at intervals.

But the time went slowly, and everyone had time to think of how Pharaoh
had said
said Cyril
said Anthea
All the same, the sounds of the door being unbarred seemed one of the
prettiest sounds possible
whispered Jane.

But that doubt was set at rest by the Psammead itself; for almost before
the door was open it sprang through the chink of it into Anthea's arms,
shivering and hunching up its fur
said the soldier, holding out the bag, into
which the Psammead immediately crept
said Cyril
said the soldier
he said
At the word 'WISH' the children knew that the Psammead would attend to
THAT bit of magic. It did, and the floor was littered with a spreading
heap of gold and precious stones
asked Cyril loftily
said the soldier
He closed it carefully and set his broad Egyptian back against it
cried a voice high up among the tops of the tall wooden
pillars that stood against the wall. There was a sound of someone moving
above.

The soldier was as much surprised as anybody
he said.

And then Jane held up the Amulet, uttering the word of Power. At the
sound of it and at the sight of the Amulet growing into the great arch
the soldier fell flat on his face among the jewels with a cry of awe and
terror.

The children went through the arch with a quickness born of long
practice. But Jane stayed in the middle of the arch and looked back.

The others, standing on the dining-room carpet in Fitzroy Street, turned
and saw her still in the arch
cried Cyril
But they pulled at Jane's hands just to see if she would come, and, of
course, she did come.

Then, as usual, the arch was little again and there they all were
Jane said crossly
said Jane ungratefully
As a matter of fact, none of them had seen the last of it -- if by 'it'
Jane meant the adventure of the Priest and the Soldier
Look here, said Cyril, sitting on the dining-table and swinging his
legs
was the not unnatural rejoinder of the others.

Cyril was making a boat with a penknife and a piece of wood, and the
girls were making warm frocks for their dolls, for the weather was
growing chilly
interrupted Robert
said Cyril in mysterious accents
Old Nurse had come in with the tray of knives, forks, and glasses,
and was getting the tablecloth and table-napkins out of the chiffonier
drawer
said old Nurse
said Cyril quite untruly
said old Nurse
said Anthea
said
Nurse shortly
inquired Robert
said old Nurse, going round the table and putting the knives and
forks in their places
She ended with a trembling voice
cried Anthea, and she and Jane instantly hugged her.

When she had gone out of the room Anthea said
said Robert
explained Anthea
she added hastily
The others would have been ashamed not to agree, so they did. It was not
till quite near the end of dinner -- mutton fritters and blackberry and
apple pie -- that out of the earnest talk of the four came an idea that
pleased everybody and would, they hoped, please Nurse.

Cyril and Robert went out with the taste of apple still in their mouths
and the purple of blackberries on their lips -- and, in the case of
Robert, on the wristband as well -- and bought a big sheet of cardboard at
the stationers. Then at the plumber's shop, that has tubes and pipes
and taps and gas-fittings in the window, they bought a pane of glass the
same size as the cardboard. The man cut it with a very interesting tool
that had a bit of diamond at the end, and he gave them, out of his own
free generousness, a large piece of putty and a small piece of glue.

While they were out the girls had floated four photographs of the four
children off their cards in hot water. These were now stuck in a row
along the top of the cardboard. Cyril put the glue to melt in a jampot,
and put the jampot in a saucepan and saucepan on the fire, while Robert
painted a wreath of poppies round the photographs. He painted rather
well and very quickly, and poppies are easy to do if you've once been
shown how. Then Anthea drew some printed letters and Jane coloured them.
The words were
And when the painting was dry they all signed their names at the bottom
and put the glass on, and glued brown paper round the edge and over the
back, and put two loops of tape to hang it up by.

Of course everyone saw when too late that there were not enough letters
in 'things', so the missing 'n' was put in. It was impossible, of
course, to do the whole thing over again for just one letter
said Anthea, placing it carefully, face up, under the sofa
said Cyril in a great hurry, rubbing at his gluey hands
with his pocket handkerchief
There was a long pause
said Robert at last
said Cyril, and again stopped short
asked Jane
said Cyril
sharply.

So no one said any more, and with wrinkled frowns he arranged his ideas
he said
said Robert
said Jane
said Robert, but he didn't
said Anthea, who did, very nearly
said Cyril, very slowly indeed
said Jane
said Anthea
said Cyril, driven to greater clearness by the
blank faces of the other three
said Robert, and this time he did, and I hope YOU do
said Anthea
inquired Robert
said Cyril
urged Jane
said Anthea
When everyone was clean and dressed, the charm was held up
said Cyril, and Jane said the word of Power. They walked through the big
arch of the charm straight into the British Museum.

They knew it at once, and there, right in front of them, under a glass
case, was the Amulet -- their own half of it, as well as the other half
they had never been able to find -- and the two were joined by a pin of
red stone that formed a hinge
cried Robert
said Cyril, very gloomily
said Robert, remembering how impossible the Queen of Babylon had
found it to get anything out of the glass cases in the Museum -- except by
Psammead magic, and then she hadn't been able to take anything away with
her
interrupted Cyril bitterly
said Robert
Nor did any of the others
said Jane
Cyril's tone was impatient
said Anthea; the Museum looks
just the same, only lighter and brighter, somehow
said Robert
said Anthea
with sudden hope. There was no one in the room, but in the next gallery,
where the Assyrian things are and still were, they found a kind, stout
man in a loose, blue gown, and stockinged legs
said Jane.

When they asked him their question he showed them a label on the case.
It said
A name followed, and it was the
name of the learned gentleman who, among themselves, and to his face
when he had been with them at the other side of the Amulet, they had
called Jimmy
said Cyril
asked the kind man in blue
said Cyril rather warmly
said the man, and
they could see he did not believe them. There is no company so little
pleasing as that of people who do not believe you
said Cyril. And they came away.

As they came through the doors of the Museum they blinked at the sudden
glory of sunlight and blue sky. The houses opposite the Museum were
gone. Instead there was a big garden, with trees and flowers and smooth
green lawns, and not a single notice to tell you not to walk on the
grass and not to destroy the trees and shrubs and not to pick the
flowers. There were comfortable seats all about, and arbours covered
with roses, and long, trellised walks, also rose-covered. Whispering,
splashing fountains fell into full white marble basins, white statues
gleamed among the leaves, and the pigeons that swept about among the
branches or pecked on the smooth, soft gravel were not black and tumbled
like the Museum pigeons are now, but bright and clean and sleek as birds
of new silver. A good many people were sitting on the seats, and on the
grass babies were rolling and kicking and playing -- with very little on
indeed. Men, as well as women, seemed to be in charge of the babies and
were playing with them
said Anthea, and it was. For the people's
clothes were of bright, soft colours and all beautifully and very simply
made. No one seemed to have any hats or bonnets, but there were a great
many Japanese-looking sunshades. And among the trees were hung lamps of
coloured glass
said Jane
They walked down the path, and as they went the people on the benches
looked at the four children very curiously, but not rudely or unkindly.
The children, in their turn, looked -- I hope they did not stare -- at the
faces of these people in the beautiful soft clothes. Those faces were
worth looking at. Not that they were all handsome, though even in the
matter of handsomeness they had the advantage of any set of people the
children had ever seen. But it was the expression of their faces that
made them worth looking at. The children could not tell at first what it
was
said Anthea suddenly
And it was. Everybody looked calm, no one seemed to be in a hurry, no
one seemed to be anxious, or fretted, and though some did seem to be
sad, not a single one looked worried.

But though the people looked kind everyone looked so interested in the
children that they began to feel a little shy and turned out of the big
main path into a narrow little one that wound among trees and shrubs and
mossy, dripping springs.

It was here, in a deep, shadowed cleft between tall cypresses, that they
found the expelled little boy. He was lying face downward on the mossy
turf, and the peculiar shaking of his shoulders was a thing they had
seen, more than once, in each other. So Anthea kneeled down by him and
said
said the boy between his sobs.

This was serious. People are not expelled for light offences
said the child, in the tone of one confessing an unutterable baseness
he added without
looking up
asked Anthea
said the child
said Anthea, gently. The boy lifted his
face, rolled over, and sat up
he said
said Anthea
said the child
said Robert
said the little boy
asked Robert incredulously
asked Cyril
said Jane definitely
said Anthea
said the child, jumping up
asked Anthea
said the child, settling his leather belt over his
honey-coloured smock and stepping out with hard little bare feet
So they went.

The streets were wide and hard and very clean. There were no horses, but
a sort of motor carriage that made no noise. The Thames flowed between
green banks, and there were trees at the edge, and people sat under
them, fishing, for the stream was clear as crystal. Everywhere there
were green trees and there was no smoke. The houses were set in what
seemed like one green garden.

The little boy brought them to a house, and at the window was a good,
bright mother-face. The little boy rushed in, and through the window
they could see him hugging his mother, then his eager lips moving and
his quick hands pointing.

A lady in soft green clothes came out, spoke kindly to them, and took
them into the oddest house they had ever seen. It was very bare, there
were no ornaments, and yet every single thing was beautiful, from
the dresser with its rows of bright china, to the thick squares of
Eastern-looking carpet on the floors. I can't describe that house; I
haven't the time. And I haven't heart either, when I think how different
it was from our houses. The lady took them all over it. The oddest thing
of all was the big room in the middle. It had padded walls and a soft,
thick carpet, and all the chairs and tables were padded. There wasn't a
single thing in it that anyone could hurt itself with
asked Cyril.

The lady looked very shocked
she said
said Anthea doubtfully
said the lady
said Anthea
said the lady
said Robert suddenly
he added, as if apologizing
for this piece of information
The lady turned quite pale
she said
Anthea asked, hastily turning the subject
Robert fingered the scar on his forehead where he had hit it against the
nursery fender when he was little
asked
Anthea
said the
lady
persisted Anthea
repeated the lady
said Cyril carefully; and I have
read it used to be different in London. Usedn't people to have no homes
and beg because they were hungry? And wasn't London very black and
dirty once upon a time? And the Thames all muddy and filthy? And narrow
streets, and
said the lady
said Anthea
said the lady
said Anthea
said the lady
said Cyril, rather uneasily
said Jane
said the lady
asked Robert, as the boy ran off
Here Wells returned with strawberries and cakes and lemonade on a tray,
and everybody ate and enjoyed
said the lady
Wells kissed her, waved to the others, and went
said Anthea suddenly
The lady laughed. But Jane held up the charm and said the word
cried the lady, enchanted with the
beautiful, growing arch
said Anthea.

The lady went, laughing. But she did not laugh when she found herself,
suddenly, in the dining-room at Fitzroy Street
she cried
She ran to the window and looked out. The sky was grey, the street was
foggy, a dismal organ-grinder was standing opposite the door, a beggar
and a man who sold matches were quarrelling at the edge of the pavement
on whose greasy black surface people hurried along, hastening to get to
the shelter of their houses
she cried
said Robert
The tears were in her eyes. Anthea signed to Jane. The arch grew, they
spoke the words, and pushed the lady through it into her own time and
place, where London is clean and beautiful, and the Thames runs clear
and bright, and the green trees grow, and no one is afraid, or anxious,
or in a hurry. There was a silence. Then
said Anthea, with a deep breath
said Robert
said Jane
said Cyril
said Anthea
suggested Jane brightly
So they did. This time they said
And they went through the familiar arch into a large, light room with
three windows. Facing them was the familiar mummy-case. And at a table
by the window sat the learned gentleman. They knew him at once, though
his hair was white. He was one of the faces that do not change with age.
In his hand was the Amulet -- complete and perfect.

He rubbed his other hand across his forehead in the way they were so
used to
he said
said Robert
said he. The room had many more books than the Fitzroy
Street room, and far more curious and wonderful Assyrian and Egyptian
objects
asked Cyril
he answered, smiling, you'd remember that
you gave it to me
Cyril asked eagerly
he said
said Anthea.

The learned gentleman pointed to a frame with four photographs in it
he said.

The children saw four grown-up people's portraits -- two ladies, two
gentlemen -- and looked on them with loathing
whispered Jane
Anthea
with some insight whispered back
The learned gentleman was looking at them with wistful kindness
he said. There was a pause
Cyril asked suddenly
said Cyril, earnestly
said Anthea, looking out of the window
said he
his
voice dropped
said Robert
said Anthea
That was the beginning. But after you'd given me the whole of the
Amulet -- ah, it was generous of you!-- then, somehow, I didn't need to
theorize, I seemed to KNOW about the old Egyptian civilization. And
they can't upset my theories'-- he rubbed his thin hands and laughed
triumphantly
said Anthea
said he
said Anthea, and kissed him. He started
he said, and his voice trembled
said Anthea softly
said he
said Robert
he said reproachfully
said Anthea
Jane held up the Amulet in a hand that twittered
she cried
pleaded the learned gentleman
said Anthea firmly, and kissed him again
said Robert
cried Jane, stamping in her agony of impatience. And they
went. Old Nurse brought in tea almost as soon as they were back in
Fitzroy Street. As she came in with the tray, the girls rushed at her
and nearly upset her and it
cried Jane
and Anthea cried
said Nurse
to die yet a while, please
Heaven! Whatever on earth's the matter with the chicks
She put the tray down and hugged the girls in turn. The boys thumped her
on the back with heartfelt affection
she said
The yellow light illuminated four pale faces
Anthea went on
The glazed testimonial was dragged out from under the sofa and
displayed
said Cyril
cried old Nurse
She hugged them all, one after the other. And the boys did not mind it,
somehow, that day
Anthea woke the
Psammead with laborious gentleness to put the question
said the Psammead
Anthea persisted
said the Psammead,
rather crossly
It went to sand again at once.

Anthea crept down in her nightgown to give one last kiss to old Nurse,
and one last look at the beautiful testimonial hanging, by its tapes,
its glue now firmly set, in glazed glory on the wall of the kitchen
said old Nurse
said Jane softly
said Cyril
said Jane, sucking
her brush.

They were all painting. Nurse in the flush of grateful emotion, excited
by Robert's border of poppies, had presented each of the four with a
shilling paint-box, and had supplemented the gift with a pile of old
copies of the Illustrated London News
said Cyril instructively
said
Robert
said Jane dreamily
said Anthea,
shuddering
said Jane
said Anthea
said Robert
asked Cyril
said Robert, with the meek pride of superior knowledge
asked Cyril
said Robert, still more proudly meek
said Cyril, naturally
annoyed
said Robert, in what was really a rather
annoying tone
said Jane, dreamily sucking her brush
again
said Cyril to Robert
suggested Robert
cried Anthea, jumping up very quickly
Cyril and Robert agreed that this was an idea. Jane consented to stop
painting because, as she said, Chinese white, though certainly sweet,
gives you a queer feeling in the back of the throat if you paint with it
too long.

The Amulet was held up
said Jane
Then she said the word.

Next moment everyone felt a queer rocking and swaying -- something like
what you feel when you go out in a fishing boat. And that was not
wonderful, when you come to think of it, for it was in a boat that they
found themselves. A queer boat, with high bulwarks pierced with holes
for oars to go through. There was a high seat for the steersman, and
the prow was shaped like the head of some great animal with big, staring
eyes. The boat rode at anchor in a bay, and the bay was very smooth.
The crew were dark, wiry fellows with black beards and hair. They had no
clothes except a tunic from waist to knee, and round caps with knobs
on the top. They were very busy, and what they were doing was so
interesting to the children that at first they did not even wonder where
the Amulet had brought them. And the crew seemed too busy to notice the
children. They were fastening rush baskets to a long rope with a great
piece of cork at the end, and in each basket they put mussels or little
frogs. Then they cast out the rope, the baskets sank, but the cork
floated. And all about on the blue water were other boats and all the
crews of all the boats were busy with ropes and baskets and frogs and
mussels
Jane suddenly asked a man who had rather more
clothes than the others, and seemed to be a sort of captain or overseer.
He started and stared at her, but he had seen too many strange lands to
be very much surprised at these queerly-dressed stowaways
he said shortly
said Robert carelessly. The Captain fingered an
Amulet that hung round his neck
asked Cyril
said the man. Then he drew back and spoke in a low
voice to one of the sailors
said Cyril
said Jane
said Anthea
said Robert
cried Anthea suddenly. On the bare breast of one of
the sailors gleamed something red. It was the exact counterpart of their
precious half-Amulet.

A silence, full of emotion, was broken by Jane
she said
said Cyril
He did -- yet not so strong as the other sailors
said Anthea musingly
said Robert
At that moment that sailor looked up. His
eyes met Robert's -- and Robert and the others had no longer any doubt as
to where they had seen him before. It was Rekh-mara, the priest who
had led them to the palace of Pharaoh -- and whom Jane had looked back at
through the arch, when he was counselling Pharaoh's guard to take the
jewels and fly for his life.

Nobody was quite pleased, and nobody quite knew why.

Jane voiced the feelings of all when she said, fingering THEIR Amulet
through the folds of her frock
For the moment nothing worse happened than an offer of food -- figs and
cucumbers it was, and very pleasant
said the Captain
Jane whispered
But the boys wanted to stay and see the lines taken up in the morning
said Cyril
So they stayed
said the Captain, who was evidently trying to
be civil. He pointed to a great island rock, that rose steeply from the
sea, crowned with huge walls and towers. There was another city on the
mainland
said the Captain
Cyril cried suddenly
A ship in full sail was passing swiftly through the fishing fleet. The
Captain's face changed. He frowned, and his eyes blazed with fury
he cried
said Anthea hastily
growled the Captain, but he stopped
scowling
he went on
said Robert
said the Captain
scornfully
asked Jane, with interest
scowled the
skipper
said Anthea cordially
growled the man
He went away, and everyone felt snubbed and uncomfortable. And all the
time the long, narrow eyes of the Egyptian were watching, watching. They
felt as though he was watching them through the darkness, when they lay
down to sleep on a pile of cloaks.

Next morning the baskets were drawn up full of what looked like whelk
shells.

The children were rather in the way, but they made themselves as small
as they could. While the skipper was at the other end of the boat they
did ask one question of a sailor, whose face was a little less unkind
than the others
he answered
shouted the skipper. And the man held it.

The laden boat was rowed slowly round the end of the island, and was
made fast in one of the two great harbours that lay inside a long
breakwater. The harbour was full of all sorts of ships, so that
Cyril and Robert enjoyed themselves much more than their sisters. The
breakwater and the quays were heaped with bales and baskets, and crowded
with slaves and sailors. Farther along some men were practising diving
said Robert, as a naked brown body cleft the water
said the skipper
said Robert, and put away a wild desire to explain
to the Captain the English system of waterworks, pipes, taps, and the
intricacies of the plumbers' trade.

As they neared the quay the skipper made a hasty toilet. He did his
hair, combed his beard, put on a garment like a jersey with short
sleeves, an embroidered belt, a necklace of beads, and a big signet
ring
said he
said Jane cautiously.

'To Pheles, the great sea-captain, said the skipper
Then Rekh-mara came forward, and, for the first time, spoke
he said
The skipper looked at the Egyptian with some disfavour
he said
So he came, and the girls wished he hadn't. But Robert whispered
The morning was so fresh and bright; their breakfast had been so good
and so unusual; they had actually seen the Amulet round the Egyptian's
neck. One or two, or all these things, suddenly raised the children's
spirits. They went off quite cheerfully through the city gate -- it was
not arched, but roofed over with a great flat stone -- and so through the
street, which smelt horribly of fish and garlic and a thousand other
things even less agreeable. But far worse than the street scents was the
scent of the factory, where the skipper called in to sell his night's
catch. I wish I could tell you all about that factory, but I haven't
time, and perhaps after all you aren't interested in dyeing works. I
will only mention that Robert was triumphantly proved to be right. The
dye WAS a yellowish-white liquid of a creamy consistency, and it smelt
more strongly of garlic than garlic itself does.

While the skipper was bargaining with the master of the dye works the
Egyptian came close to the children, and said, suddenly and softly
said Anthea
said the Egyptian
said Cyril bluntly
said Robert
said the Priest
Before anyone could say more the skipper came back, and with him the
dye-master. His hair and beard were curled like the men's in Babylon,
and he was dressed like the skipper, but with added grandeur of gold
and embroidery. He had necklaces of beads and silver, and a glass amulet
with a man's face, very like his own, set between two bull's heads, as
well as gold and silver bracelets and armlets. He looked keenly at the
children. Then he said
said the skipper
said the dye-master
Robert could not help thinking how easy, and at the same time pleasant,
it would be to catch hold of the dye-master's feet and tip him backward
into the great sunken vat just near him. But if he had, flight would
have had to be the next move, so he restrained his impulse.

There was something about this Tyrian adventure that was different from
all the others. It was, somehow, calmer. And there was the undoubted
fact that the charm was there on the neck of the Egyptian.

So they enjoyed everything to the full, the row from the Island City to
the shore, the ride on the donkeys that the skipper hired at the gate of
the mainland city, and the pleasant country -- palms and figs and cedars
all about. It was like a garden -- clematis, honeysuckle, and jasmine
clung about the olive and mulberry trees, and there were tulips and
gladiolus, and clumps of mandrake, which has bell-flowers that look as
though they were cut out of dark blue jewels. In the distance were the
mountains of Lebanon. The house they came to at last was rather like
a bungalow -- long and low, with pillars all along the front. Cedars and
sycamores grew near it and sheltered it pleasantly.

Everyone dismounted, and the donkeys were led away
whispered Robert, and instantly supplied
the answer
said Cyril
said Anthea
The children were left alone in a large hall. The floor was mosaic, done
with wonderful pictures of ships and sea-beasts and fishes. Through an
open doorway they could see a pleasant courtyard with flowers
said Jane
Everyone was feeling very jolly. Even the Egyptian looked pleasanter
than usual. And then, quite suddenly, the skipper came back with a
joyous smile. With him came the master of the house. He looked steadily
at the children and nodded twice
he said
The two passed on
said the Egyptian
asked all the children at once
said Rekh-mara
he
added
A hasty council succeeded the shock of this announcement. The Priest was
allowed to take part in it. His advice was 'stay', because they were in
no danger, and the Amulet in its completeness must be somewhere near,
or, of course, they could not have come to that place at all. And after
some discussion they agreed to this.

The children were treated more as guests than as slaves, but the
Egyptian was sent to the kitchen and made to work.

Pheles, the master of the house, went off that very evening, by the
King's orders, to start on another voyage. And when he was gone his wife
found the children amusing company, and kept them talking and singing
and dancing till quite late
she
said
remarked Jane cheerfully, as they curled up
on the big, soft cushions that were to be their beds.

It was black night when they were awakened, each by a hand passed softly
over its face, and a low voice that whispered
So they were quiet
said the whisperer
Everyone was instantly awake by now
said Cyril, leaping up
said the Egyptian in the dark
There in the deep blackness of that room in the Tyrian country house the
Amulet was once more held up and the word spoken.

All passed through on to a ship that tossed and tumbled on a wind-blown
sea. They crouched together there till morning, and Jane and Cyril were
not at all well. When the dawn showed, dove-coloured, across the steely
waves, they stood up as well as they could for the tumbling of the ship.
Pheles, that hardy sailor and adventurer, turned quite pale when he
turned round suddenly and saw them
he said
said the Egyptian, bowing low, and that was even more
difficult than standing up
repeated Pheles
asked Robert, with a nautical air.

But Pheles said
Robert had to own that he was
not
said Pheles
He spoke in quite a new voice, and seemed to respect both the children
and the Amulet a good deal more than he had done before
said Jane
answered Pheles
He
bowed and left them
said Robert, when Pheles had caused them
to be left along with a breakfast of dried fruits and a sort of hard
biscuit
said Rekh-mara
he added, grinding his
teeth
asked Jane
said the Egyptian cheerfully
cried Jane, and Cyril, who was still feeling far too
unwell to care about breakfast, hugged himself miserably and shuddered.
It was Robert who said
It was done -- the work of a moment -- and there they were on the same ship,
between grey northern sky and grey northern sea. The sun was setting
in a pale yellow line. It was the same ship, but it was changed, and
so were the crew. Weather-worn and dirty were the sailors, and their
clothes torn and ragged. And the children saw that, of course, though
they had skipped the nine months, the ship had had to live through them.
Pheles looked thinner, and his face was rugged and anxious
he cried
asked the Egyptian quietly
said the Egyptian.

But Robert said
He took out the shilling compass, still, fortunately, in working order,
that he had bought off another boy at school for fivepence, a piece of
indiarubber, a strip of whalebone, and half a stick of red sealing-wax.

And he showed Pheles how it worked. And Pheles wondered at the compass's
magic truth
Robert said
Pheles made no answer. He first laughed, snatched the compass from
Robert's hand, and turned away still laughing
the Priest whispered
The dusk deepened, and Pheles, crouched beside a dim lantern, steered by
the shilling compass from the Crystal Palace.

No one ever knew how the other ship sailed, but suddenly, in the deep
night, the look-out man at the stern cried out in a terrible voice
said Pheles
He was silent a
moment, then suddenly he altered the ship's course, and then he stood up
and spoke
he said
cried the half-dozen men near him. The slaves were rowing hard
below and could not hear his words.

The Egyptian leaped upon him; suddenly, fiercely, as a wild beast leaps
he cried, and caught at the charm. The chain
that held it snapped, and it lay in the Priest's hand.

Pheles laughed, standing balanced to the leap of the ship that answered
the oarstroke
he said
A great shout went up, and the slaves below joined in it
cried Anthea, and held it up. Rekh-mara held up the
one he had snatched from Pheles. The word was spoken, and the two great
arches grew on the plunging ship in the shrieking wind under the dark
sky. From each Amulet a great and beautiful green light streamed and
shone far out over the waves. It illuminated, too, the black faces and
jagged teeth of the great rocks that lay not two ships' lengths from the
boat's peaked nose
the voices of the
doomed rose in a triumphant shout. The children scrambled through the
arch, and stood trembling and blinking in the Fitzroy Street parlour,
and in their ears still sounded the whistle of the wind, and the rattle
of the oars, the crash of the ships bow on the rocks, and the last shout
of the brave gentlemen-adventurers who went to their deaths singing, for
the sake of the city they loved
said Anthea,
when they had told the Psammead all about it
said the Psammead
said Anthea gently
said Jane
said the Psammead
said Anthea
the Psammead went on
said Anthea
said Cyril
said Robert
said Cyril
said Jane
said the Psammead
said Anthea soothingly
snapped the
Psammead
Cyril and Jane were feeling far from well, Anthea was always obliging,
so Robert was overruled. And they promised. And none of them, not even
the Psammead, at all foresaw, as you no doubt do quite plainly, exactly
what it was that WOULD happen on that memorable date
If I only had time I could tell you lots of things. For instance, how,
in spite of the advice of the Psammead, the four children did, one very
wet day, go through their Amulet Arch into the golden desert, and there
find the great Temple of Baalbec and meet with the Phoenix whom they
never thought to see again. And how the Phoenix did not remember them at
all until it went into a sort of prophetic trance -- if that can be called
remembering. But, alas! I HAVEN'T time, so I must leave all that out
though it was a wonderfully thrilling adventure. I must leave out, too,
all about the visit of the children to the Hippodrome with the Psammead
in its travelling bag, and about how the wishes of the people round
about them were granted so suddenly and surprisingly that at last the
Psammead had to be taken hurriedly home by Anthea, who consequently
missed half the performance. Then there was the time when, Nurse having
gone to tea with a friend out Ivalunk way, they were playing
and in the midst of that most creepy pastime the postman's
knock frightened Jane nearly out of her life. She took in the letters,
however, and put them in the back of the hat-stand drawer, so that they
should be safe. And safe they were, for she never thought of them again
for weeks and weeks.

One really good thing happened when they took the Psammead to a
magic-lantern show and lecture at the boys' school at Camden Town. The
lecture was all about our soldiers in South Africa. And the lecturer
ended up by saying
And, of course, this came true -- which was a distinct score for Camden
Town.

As Anthea said, it was unlucky that the lecturer said boys, because now
she and Jane would have to be noble and unselfish, if at all, without
any outside help. But Jane said
which nearly led to a first-class row.

And I daresay you would like to know all about the affair of the fishing
rod, and the fish-hooks, and the cook next door -- which was amusing from
some points of view, though not perhaps the cook's -- but there really is
no time even for that.

The only thing that there's time to tell about is the Adventure of
Maskelyne and Cooke's, and the Unexpected Apparition -- which is also the
beginning of the end.

It was Nurse who broke into the gloomy music of the autumn rain on the
window panes by suggesting a visit to the Egyptian Hall, England's Home
of Mystery. Though they had good, but private reasons to know that their
own particular personal mystery was of a very different brand, the
four all brightened at the idea. All children, as well as a good many
grown-ups, love conjuring
said old Nurse, carefully counting out the proper
number of shillings into Cyril's hand
said everybody.

So they started.

But though they walked along the left-hand side of Piccadilly they saw
no pillared building that was at all like Carter's seed warehouse or
Euston Station or England's Home of Mystery as they remembered it.

At last they stopped a hurried lady, and asked her the way to Maskelyne
and Cooke's
she said, pushing past them
Which just shows, as Jane said, how ignorant grown-up
people are.

It was a policeman who at last explained to them that England's
Mysteries are now appropriately enough enacted at St George's Hall.

So they tramped to Langham Place, and missed the first two items in
the programme. But they were in time for the most wonderful magic
appearances and disappearances, which they could hardly believe -- even
with all their knowledge of a larger magic -- was not really magic after
all
whispered
Cyril
said Anthea and several other members of the audience.

Now there was a vacant seat next to Robert. And it was when all eyes
were fixed on the stage where Mr Devant was pouring out glasses of all
sorts of different things to drink, out of one kettle with one spout,
and the audience were delightedly tasting them, that Robert felt someone
in that vacant seat. He did not feel someone sit down in it. It was just
that one moment there was no one sitting there, and the next moment,
suddenly, there was someone.

Robert turned. The someone who had suddenly filled that empty place was
Rekh-mara, the Priest of Amen!

Though the eyes of the audience were fixed on Mr David Devant, Mr David
Devant's eyes were fixed on the audience. And it happened that his eyes
were more particularly fixed on that empty chair. So that he saw quite
plainly the sudden appearance, from nowhere, of the Egyptian Priest
he said to himself
He had never seen a
trick that he could not do himself if he tried.

By this time a good many eyes in the audience had turned on the
clean-shaven, curiously-dressed figure of the Egyptian Priest
said Mr Devant, rising to the occasion
He little knew how true his words were.

And now all eyes were turned on the Priest and the children, and the
whole audience, after a moment's breathless surprise, shouted applause.
Only the lady on the other side of Rekh-mara drew back a little. She
KNEW no one had passed her, and, as she said later, over tea and cold
tongue
Rekh-mara seemed very much annoyed at the notice he was exciting
he whispered to Robert
Jane whispered
was Robert's return whisper
retorted Rekh-mara
Robert shrugged angrily. But they
all got up
said a man in the row behind
said Robert
said Cyril. And so they got away, the audience
applauding to the last.

In the vestibule of St George's Hall they disguised Rekh-mara as well as
they could, but even with Robert's hat and Cyril's Inverness cape he was
too striking a figure for foot-exercise in the London streets. It had to
be a cab, and it took the last, least money of all of them. They stopped
the cab a few doors from home, and then the girls went in and engaged
old Nurse's attention by an account of the conjuring and a fervent
entreaty for dripping-toast with their tea, leaving the front door open
so that while Nurse was talking to them the boys could creep quietly
in with Rekh-mara and smuggle him, unseen, up the stairs into their
bedroom.

When the girls came up they found the Egyptian Priest sitting on the
side of Cyril's bed, his hands on his knees, looking like a statue of a
king
said Cyril impatiently
When the door was shut the Egyptian said
said Cyril
said the Priest
said Anthea
said the Priest, deeply thoughtful
said Cyril gruffly
said Rekh-mara
said Robert
said the Priest
He
laid it on the Marcella counterpane
Jane watching the eyes of the others, unfastened the string of the
Amulet and laid it on the bed, but too far off for the Priest to seize
it, even if he had been so dishonourable. Cyril and Robert stood beside
him, ready to spring on him if one of his hands had moved but ever so
little towards the magic treasure that was theirs. But his hands did not
move, only his eyes opened very wide, and so did everyone else's for
the Amulet the Priest had now quivered and shook; and then, as steel is
drawn to the magnet, it was drawn across the white counterpane, nearer
and nearer to the Amulet, warm from the neck of Jane. And then, as one
drop of water mingles with another on a rain-wrinkled window-pane, as
one bead of quick-silver is drawn into another bead, Rekh-mara's Amulet
slipped into the other one, and, behold! there was no more but the one
Amulet
cried Rekh-mara, and sprang forward to snatch the Amulet
that had swallowed his. But Anthea caught it up, and at the same moment
the Priest was jerked back by a rope thrown over his head. It drew,
tightened with the pull of his forward leap, and bound his elbows to his
sides. Before he had time to use his strength to free himself, Robert
had knotted the cord behind him and tied it to the bedpost. Then the
four children, overcoming the priest's wrigglings and kickings, tied his
legs with more rope
said Robert, breathing hard, and drawing the last knot
tight
The girls, with rather white faces, applauded his foresight
cried Rekh-mara in fury
Robert retorted
said Anthea desperately
she took up the Amulet that
had swallowed the other one
cried the Priest, writhing
said Robert
said Rekh-mara sulkily.

But reason could not be spoken to him till a whispered counsel had been
held in the far corner by the washhand-stand and the towel-horse, a
counsel rather long and very earnest.

At last Anthea detached herself from the group, and went back to the
Priest
she said in her kind little voice
said the Priest
Jane put in
said Robert
said the Priest
said Anthea, on the instant, and added rather rashly
She began to unbind his legs, and the boys hastened to untie
his arms.

When he was free he stood up, stretched his arms, and laughed
he said
said a voice from under the bed. Everyone
started -- Rekh-mara most of all.

Cyril stooped and pulled out the bath of sand where the Psammead slept
said the Psammead shaking itself till the sand fell tinkling
on the bath edge
cried the Priest in terror
said Jane, too
said Rekh-mara, who had turned very white indeed under his
natural brownness
said the Psammead threateningly
said the Psammead
said Anthea
said Cyril briefly
said
Robert
So Rekh-mara was taken up to the box-room and made as comfortable as
possible in a snug nook between an old nursery fender and the wreck of
a big four-poster. They gave him a big rag-bag to sit on, and an old,
moth-eaten fur coat off the nail on the door to keep him warm. And when
they had had their own tea they took him some. He did not like the tea
at all, but he liked the bread and butter, and cake that went with it.
They took it in turns to sit with him during the evening, and left him
fairly happy and quite settled for the night.


But when they went up in the morning with a kipper, a quarter of which
each of them had gone without at breakfast, Rekh-mara was gone! There
was the cosy corner with the rag-bag, and the moth-eaten fur coat -- but
the cosy corner was empty
was naturally the first delightful thought in each
mind. The second was less pleasing, because everyone at once remembered
that since his Amulet had been swallowed up by theirs -- which hung
once more round the neck of Jane -- he could have no possible means of
returning to his Egyptian past. Therefore he must be still in England,
and probably somewhere quite near them, plotting mischief.

The attic was searched, to prevent mistakes, but quite vainly
said Cyril
Anthea hesitated
said Cyril
said Anthea
said Cyril
he added
grimly
Jane shuddered
said Anthea
They tapped at the door, and on the 'Come in' entered. The learned
gentleman was sitting in front of his untasted breakfast.

Opposite him, in the easy chair, sat Rekh-mara
said the learned gentleman very earnestly
said the Priest
said the learned gentleman feverishly
said the Priest
he explained to the children
the learned gentleman began, but Robert interrupted.
This was no moment for manners
he asked the Priest
said Rekh-mara
Rekh-mara hesitated, then told -- and, oddly enough, none of the children
ever could remember afterwards what it was that he did tell. Perhaps he
used some magic to prevent their remembering.

When he had done the learned gentleman was silent, leaning his elbow on
the table and his head on his hand
said Anthea gently
said Rekh-mara
said Robert
said the Priest
said Jane, almost whimpering.

The learned gentleman raised his head suddenly
he suggested
It was the simplest thing in the world! And yet none of them had ever
thought of it
cried Rekh-mara, leaping up
the learned gentleman timidly asked
Rekh-mara was beginning, but Cyril and
Robert with one voice cried
Robert added
said Anthea
said Rekh-mara
Jane held up the Amulet -- Rekh-mara went first -- and they all passed
through the great arch into which the Amulet grew at the Name of Power.

The learned gentleman saw through the arch a darkness lighted by smoky
gleams. He rubbed his eyes. And he only rubbed them for ten seconds.


The children and the Priest were in a small, dark chamber. A square
doorway of massive stone let in gleams of shifting light, and the sound
of many voices chanting a slow, strange hymn. They stood listening. Now
and then the chant quickened and the light grew brighter, as though fuel
had been thrown on a fire
whispered Anthea
whispered Robert
said the Egyptian
shivering
And then Jane felt that her hand was on a slab or table of stone, and,
under her hand, something that felt like the charm that had so long hung
round her neck, only it was thicker. Twice as thick
she said
And she hardly knew the sound of
her own voice
repeated Rekh-mara
said Robert resistingly
the Priest urged
The chanting voices seemed to have grown louder and fiercer, and light
stronger
cried Rekh-mara
Jane held it up
said Anthea
The learned gentleman merely stared at her
It was Nurse's voice, very much higher and
squeaky and more exalted than usual
said everyone. Cyril adding
Then they went down. Nurse was in the hall, an orange envelope in one
hand, and a pink paper in the other
shouted the boys and Jane. But Anthea
could not shout, she was nearer crying
she said almost in a whisper
Nurse was saying
said Jane in a queer voice
she pulled out the drawer as she spoke
There was a letter for Nurse and one for the children. The letters told
how Father had done being a war-correspondent and was coming home; and
how Mother and The Lamb were going to meet him in Italy and all come
home together; and how The Lamb and Mother were quite well; and how
a telegram would be sent to tell the day and the hour of their
home-coming
said old Nurse
said Jane, hugging her
said Cyril
said old Nurse, but she laughed jollily
There was, in fact, something upstairs that they had to settle. Quite a
considerable something, too. And it took much longer than they expected.

A hasty rush into the boys' room secured the Psammead, very sandy and
very cross
said Anthea
said Robert
But it didn't
he exclaimed, when the
Psammead had been explained to him by Rekh-mara
said Robert
Jane untied the string and laid her half Amulet on the table, littered
with dusty papers, and the clay cylinders marked all over with little
marks like the little prints of birds' little feet. Robert laid down the
whole Amulet, and Anthea gently restrained the eager hand of the learned
gentleman as it reached out yearningly towards the 'perfect specimen'.

And then, just as before on the Marcella quilt, so now on the dusty
litter of papers and curiosities, the half Amulet quivered and shook,
and then, as steel is drawn to a magnet, it was drawn across the dusty
manuscripts, nearer and nearer to the perfect Amulet, warm from the
pocket of Robert. And then, as one drop of water mingles with another
when the panes of the window are wrinkled with rain, as one bead of
mercury is drawn into another bead, the half Amulet, that was the
children's and was also Rekh-mara's,-- slipped into the whole Amulet,
and, behold! there was only one -- the perfect and ultimate Charm
said the Psammead, breaking a breathless
silence
said Anthea
said Rekh-mara
Anthea asked
said the Priest, without a moment's
hesitation
said the Psammead
cried the learned gentleman
They did. As once before, when the sun had shone in August splendour,
they crouched in a circle on the floor. Now the air outside was thick
and yellow with the fog that by some strange decree always attends the
Cattle Show week. And in the street costers were shouting
Jane said the Name of Power. And instantly the light went
out, and all the sounds went out too, so that there was a silence and
a darkness, both deeper than any darkness or silence that you have ever
even dreamed of imagining. It was like being deaf or blind, only darker
and quieter even than that.

Then out of that vast darkness and silence came a light and a voice. The
light was too faint to see anything by, and the voice was too small
for you to hear what it said. But the light and the voice grew. And the
light was the light that no man may look on and live, and the voice was
the sweetest and most terrible voice in the world. The children cast
down their eyes. And so did everyone
said the voice
There was a pause. Everyone was afraid to speak
said Robert suddenly and abruptly
said the beautiful, terrible
voice
said Anthea tremulously
She stopped,
her heart was beating desperately in her throat, as it seemed
said the voice of glorious sweetness
The children exchanged discouraged glances. But the eyes of Rekh-mara
and the learned gentleman met, and were kind to each other, and promised
each other many things, secret and sacred and very beautiful.

Anthea saw the look
she said, without at all meaning to say
it
said the voice
asked Jane
The voices were those of the Egyptian Priest and the learned gentleman,
and the voices were eager, alive, thrilled with hope and the desire of
great things.

So Jane took the Amulet from Robert and held it up between the two men,
and said, for the last time, the word of Power
The perfect Amulet grew into a double arch; the two arches leaned to
each other making a great A
whispered Jane
breathed Anthea.

The great double arch glowed in and through the green light that had
been there since the Name of Power had first been spoken -- it glowed
with a light more bright yet more soft than the other light -- a glory and
splendour and sweetness unspeakable
cried Rekh-mara, holding
out his hands
cried the learned gentleman, and he also held out his hands.

Each moved forward under the glowing, glorious arch of the perfect
Amulet.

Then Rekh-mara quavered and shook, and as steel is drawn to a magnet
he was drawn, under the arch of magic, nearer and nearer to the learned
gentleman. And, as one drop of water mingles with another, when the
window-glass is rain-wrinkled, as one quick-silver bead is drawn to
another quick-silver bead, Rekh-mara, Divine Father of the Temple of
Amen-Ra, was drawn into, slipped into, disappeared into, and was one
with Jimmy, the good, the beloved, the learned gentleman.

And suddenly it was good daylight and the December sun shone. The fog
has passed away like a dream.

The Amulet was there -- little and complete in jane's hand, and there
were the other children and the Psammead, and the learned gentleman. But
Rekh-mara -- or the body of Rekh-mara -- was not there any more. As for his
soul
cried Robert, and put his foot on a centipede
as long as your finger, that crawled and wriggled and squirmed at the
learned gentleman's feet
said the Psammead
There was a deep silence
said Jane at last
said the Psammead
said Anthea, in a sort of
stubborn gentleness
said the Psammead
said Anthea softly
said the Psammead -- its voice was crosser than they had ever heard
it
said the learned gentleman absently, yet polite as
ever.

The Psammead swelled itself up, turned its long snail's eyes in one
last lingering look at Anthea -- a loving look, she always said, and
thought -- and -- vanished
said Anthea, after a silence
said the learned gentleman
said Cyril with courtesy
There was a ring at the front-door bell. The opening of a door. Voices
cried Robert, and a thrill ran through four hearts
cried Anthea, snatching the Amulet from Jane and pressing it
into the hand of the learned gentleman
She hugged him briefly but fervently, and the four swept down the stairs
to the hall, where a cabman was bringing in boxes, and where,
heavily disguised in travelling cloaks and wraps, was their hearts'
desire -- three-fold -- Mother, Father, and The Lamb
said the learned gentleman, left alone
</text>
