<text>
Horace Ventimore said, half
aloud, to himself, and pulled out his watch
As he sat at the window of his office in Great Cloister Street,
Westminster, he made his thoughts travel back to a certain glorious
morning in August which now seemed so remote and irrecoverable. At this
precise time he was waiting on the balcony of the Hotel de la Plage -- the
sole hostelry of St. Luc-en-Port, the tiny Normandy watering-place upon
which, by some happy inspiration, he had lighted during a solitary
cycling tour -- waiting until She should appear.

He could see the whole scene: the tiny cove, with the violet shadow of
the cliff sleeping on the green water; the swell of the waves lazily
lapping against the diving-board from which he had plunged half an hour
before; he remembered the long swim out to the buoy; the exhilarated
anticipation with which he had dressed and climbed the steep path to the
hotel terrace.

For was he not to pass the whole remainder of that blissful day in
Sylvia Futvoye's society? Were they not to cycle together (there were,
of course, others of the party -- but they did not count), to cycle over
to Veulettes, to picnic there under the cliff, and ride back -- always
together -- in the sweet-scented dusk, over the slopes, between the
poplars or the cornfields glowing golden against a sky of warm purple?

Now he saw himself going round to the gravelled courtyard in front of
the hotel with a sudden dread of missing her. There was nothing there
but the little low cart, with its canvas tilt which was to convey
Professor Futvoye and his wife to the place of _rendezvous_.

There was Sylvia at last, distractingly fair and fresh in her cool pink
blouse and cream-coloured skirt; how gracious and friendly and generally
delightful she had been throughout that unforgettable day, which was
supreme amongst others only a little less perfect, and all now fled for
ever!

They had had drawbacks, it was true. Old Futvoye was perhaps the least
bit of a bore at times, with his interminable disquisitions on Egyptian
art and ancient Oriental character-writing, in which he seemed convinced
that Horace must feel a perfervid interest, as, indeed, he thought it
politic to affect. The Professor was a most learned archaeologist, and
positively bulged with information on his favourite subjects; but it is
just possible that Horace might have been less curious concerning the
distinction between Cuneiform and Aramaean or Kufic and Arabic
inscriptions if his informant had happened to be the father of anybody
else. However, such insincerities as these are but so many evidences of
sincerity.

So with self-tormenting ingenuity Horace conjured up various pictures
from that Norman holiday of his: the little half-timbered cottages with
their faded blue shutters and the rushes growing out of their thatch
roofs; the spires of village churches gleaming above the bronze-green
beeches; the bold headlands, their ochre and yellow cliffs contrasting
grimly with the soft ridges of the turf above them; the tethered
black-and-white cattle grazing peacefully against a background of lapis
lazuli and malachite sea, and in every scene the sensation of Sylvia's
near presence, the sound of her voice in his ears. And now?... He looked
up from the papers and tracing-cloth on his desk, and round the small
panelled room which served him as an office, at the framed plans and
photographs, the set squares and T squares on the walls, and felt a dull
resentment against his surroundings. From his window he commanded a
cheerful view of a tall, mouldering wall, once part of the Abbey
boundaries, surmounted by _chevaux-de-frise_, above whose
rust-attenuated spikes some plane trees stretched their yellowing
branches
Horace's thoughts ran on,
disjointedly
When he had called, there had been a difference -- not an unusual sequel
to an acquaintanceship begun in a Continental watering-place. It was
difficult to define, but unmistakable -- a certain formality and
constraint on Mrs. Futvoye's part, and even on Sylvia's, which seemed
intended to warn him that it is not every friendship that survives the
Channel passage. So he had gone away sore at heart, but fully
recognising that any advances in future must come from their side. They
might ask him to dinner, or at least to call again; but more than a
month had passed, and they had made no sign. No, it was all over; he
must consider himself dropped
he told himself, with a short and anything but mirthful
laugh
He spread out a large coloured plan, in a corner of which appeared the
name of
and began to study it in a spirit
of anything but appreciation
he said to himself
Let it be said here that this was not the ordinary self-delusion of an
incompetent. Ventimore really had talent above the average, with ideals
and ambitions which might under better conditions have attained
recognition and fulfilment before this.

But he was not quite energetic enough, besides being too proud, to push
himself into notice, and hitherto he had met with persistent ill-luck.

So Horace had no other occupation now but to give Beevor, whose offices
and clerk he shared, such slight assistance as he might require, and it
was by no means cheering to feel that every year of this enforced
semi-idleness left him further handicapped in the race for wealth and
fame, for he had already passed his twenty-eighth birthday.

If Miss Sylvia Futvoye had indeed felt attracted towards him at one time
it was not altogether incomprehensible. Horace Ventimore was not a model
of manly beauty -- models of manly beauty are rare out of novels, and
seldom interesting in them; but his clear-cut, clean-shaven face
possessed a certain distinction, and if there were faint satirical lines
about the mouth, they were redeemed by the expression of the grey-blue
eyes, which were remarkably frank and pleasant. He was well made, and
tall enough to escape all danger of being described as short;
fair-haired and pale, without being unhealthily pallid, in complexion,
and he gave the impression of being a man who took life as it came, and
whose sense of humour would serve as a lining for most clouds that might
darken his horizon.

There was a rap at the door which communicated with Beevor's office, and
Beevor himself, a florid, thick-set man, with small side-whiskers, burst
in
Ventimore laughed
said Beevor
agreed Ventimore, knowing that to disagree was useless
continued Beevor
said Ventimore, cheerfully
said Beevor
he went on, with a flavour of personal application
And Beevor hurried back to his own room, where for the next few minutes
he could be heard bustling Harrison, the clerk, to make haste; then a
hansom was whistled for, there were footsteps down the old stairs, the
sounds of a departing vehicle on the uneven stones, and after that
silence and solitude.

It was not in Nature to avoid feeling a little envious. Beevor had work
to do in the world: even if it chiefly consisted in profaning sylvan
retreats by smug or pretentious villas, it was still work which
entitled him to consideration and respect in the eyes of all
right-minded persons.

And nobody believed in Horace; as yet he had never known the
satisfaction of seeing the work of his brain realised in stone and brick
and mortar; no building stood anywhere to bear testimony to his
existence and capability long after he himself should have passed away.

It was not a profitable train of thought, and, to escape from it, he
went into Beevor's room and fetched the documents he had mentioned -- at
least they would keep him occupied until it was time to go to his club
and lunch. He had no sooner settled down to his calculations, however,
when he heard a shuffling step on the landing, followed by a knock at
Beevor's office-door
he thought
But on entering the adjoining room he heard the knocking repeated -- this
time at his own door; and hastening back to put an end to this somewhat
undignified form of hide-and-seek, he discovered that this visitor at
least was legitimately his, and was, in fact, no other than Professor
Anthony Futvoye himself.

The Professor was standing in the doorway peering short-sightedly
through his convex glasses, his head protruded from his loosely-fitting
great-coat with an irresistible suggestion of an inquiring tortoise. To
Horace his appearance was more welcome than that of the wealthiest
client -- for why should Sylvia's father take the trouble to pay him this
visit unless he still wished to continue the acquaintanceship? It might
even be that he was the bearer of some message or invitation.

So, although to an impartial eye the Professor might not seem the kind
of elderly gentleman whose society would produce any wild degree of
exhilaration, Horace was unfeignedly delighted to see him
he said
warmly, after establishing him in the solitary armchair reserved for
hypothetical clients
echoed Horace, at a loss to know what was coming
next
explained the Professor, scratching his scanty patch of
grizzled whisker with a touch of irascibility
said Horace
It was clear enough now; the Professor was going to build, and had
decided -- could it be at Sylvia's suggestion?-- to entrust the work to
him! But he contrived to subdue any self-betraying eagerness, and reply
(as he could with perfect truth) that he had nothing on hand just then
which he could not lay aside, and that if the Professor would let him
know what he required, he would take it up at once
said the Professor
Evidently it was not a house. Could he be needed to escort them
somewhere that afternoon? Even that was more than he had hoped for a few
minutes since. He hastened to repeat that he was perfectly free that
afternoon
said the Professor, beginning to fumble in all his
pockets -- was he searching for a note in Sylvia's handwriting
Whatever disappointment Ventimore felt, it may be said to his credit
that he allowed no sign of it to appear
he said
said the Professor
remonstrated Horace, not relishing this
responsibility
said the Professor
If this were so,
Horace could only feel with shame what a fearful humbug he must have
been
said Horace
Horace thought it would be decidedly better, and undertook to call and
render an account of his stewardship that evening. There remained the
question of a deposit, should one or more of the lots be knocked down to
him; and, as he was obliged to own that he had not so much as ten pounds
about him at that particular moment, the Professor extracted a note for
that amount from his case, and handed it to him with the air of a
benevolent person relieving a deserving object
he said
A few minutes later Horace was driving up to Covent Garden behind the
best-looking horse he could pick out.

The Professor might have required from him rather more than was strictly
justified by their acquaintanceship, and taken his acquiescence too much
as a matter of course -- but what of that? After all, he was Sylvia's
parent
he was thinking
And in this sanguine mood Horace entered Messrs. Hammond's well-known
auction rooms
In spite of the fact that it was the luncheon hour when Ventimore
reached Hammond's Auction Rooms, he found the big, skylighted gallery
where the sale of the furniture and effects of the late General
Collingham was proceeding crowded to a degree which showed that the
deceased officer had some reputation as a _connoisseur_.

The narrow green baize tables below the auctioneer's rostrum were
occupied by professional dealers, one or two of them women, who sat,
paper and pencil in hand, with much the same air of apparent apathy and
real vigilance that may be noticed in the Casino at Monte Carlo. Around
them stood a decorous and businesslike crowd, mostly dealers, of various
types. On a magisterial-looking bench sat the auctioneer, conducting the
sale with a judicial impartiality and dignity which forbade him, even in
his most laudatory comments, the faintest accent of enthusiasm.

The October sunshine, striking through the glazed roof, re-gilded the
tarnished gas-stars, and suffused the dusty atmosphere with palest gold.
But somehow the utter absence of excitement in the crowd, the calm,
methodical tone of the auctioneer, and the occasional mournful cry of
from the porter when any article was too large to
move, all served to depress Ventimore's usually mercurial spirits.

For all Horace knew, the collection as a whole might be of little value,
but it very soon became clear that others besides Professor Futvoye had
singled out such gems as there were, also that the Professor had
considerably under-rated the prices they were likely to fetch.

Ventimore made his bids with all possible discretion, but time after
time he found the competition for some perforated mosque lantern,
engraved ewer, or ancient porcelain tile so great that his limit was
soon reached, and his sole consolation was that the article eventually
changed hands for sums which were very nearly double the Professor's
estimate.

Several dealers and brokers, despairing of a bargain that day, left,
murmuring profanities; most of those who remained ceased to take a
serious interest in the proceedings, and consoled themselves with cheap
witticisms at every favourable occasion.

The sale dragged slowly on, and, what with continual disappointment and
want of food, Horace began to feel so weary that he was glad, as the
crowd thinned, to get a seat at one of the green baize tables, by which
time the skylights had already changed from livid grey to slate colour
in the deepening dusk.

A couple of meek Burmese Buddhas had just been put up, and bore the
indignity of being knocked down for nine-and-sixpence the pair with
dreamy, inscrutable simpers; Horace only waited for the final lot marked
by the Professor -- an old Persian copper bowl, inlaid with silver and
engraved round the rim with an inscription from Hafiz.

The limit to which he was authorised to go was two pounds ten; but, so
desperately anxious was Ventimore not to return empty-handed, that he
had made up his mind to bid an extra sovereign if necessary, and say
nothing about it.

However, the bowl was put up, and the bidding soon rose to three pounds
ten, four pounds, four pounds ten, five pounds, five guineas, for which
last sum it was acquired by a bearded man on Horace's right, who
immediately began to regard his purchase with a more indulgent eye.

Ventimore had done his best, and failed; there was no reason now why he
should stay a moment longer -- and yet he sat on, from sheer fatigue and
disinclination to move
he heard the auctioneer saying,
mechanically
One of the porters carried the bottle in between the tables, and set it
down before the dealers at the farther end with a tired nonchalance.

It was an old, squat, pot-bellied vessel, about two feet high, with a
long thick neck, the mouth of which was closed by a sort of metal
stopper or cap; there was no visible decoration on its sides, which were
rough and pitted by some incrustation that had formed on them, and been
partially scraped off. As a piece of _bric-a-brac_ it certainly
possessed few attractions, and there was a marked tendency to "guy" it
among the more frivolous brethren
inquired one of the auctioneer, with the
manner of a cheeky boy trying to get a rise out of his form-master
was the guarded reply
remarked a wag
asked a third
said the chief humorist, after handling it
said the
auctioneer
cried the comic man, affecting to brace himself for a
mighty effort
The bottle was still being passed round with disrespectful raps and
slaps, and it had now come to Ventimore's right-hand neighbour, who
scrutinised it carefully, but made no bid
he whispered in Horace's ear
said
the auctioneer
Horace
asked his neighbour
Horace rose, the better to examine the top. As far as he could make out
in the flickering light of one of the gas-stars, which the auctioneer
had just ordered to be lit, there were half-erased scratches and
triangular marks on the cap that might possibly be an inscription. If
so, might there not be the means here of regaining the Professor's
favour, which he felt that, as it was, he should probably forfeit,
justly or not, by his ill-success?

He could hardly spend the Professor's money on it, since it was not in
the catalogue, and he had no authority to bid for it, but he had a few
shillings of his own to spare. Why not bid for it on his own account as
long as he could afford to do so? If he were outbid, as usual, it would
not particularly matter
the auctioneer was saying, in his dispassionate
tones. Horace caught his eye, and slightly raised his catalogue, while
another man nodded at the same time
Horace
raised his catalogue again
he thought
thought Horace
And he bid seventeen shillings
cried his rival, a
short, cheery, cherub-faced little dealer, whose neighbours adjured him
to
said Horace
answered the cherubic man
said the auctioneer,
indifferently
Horace thought another shilling or two would not ruin him, and nodded
said the
auctioneer to the little man
his
friends advised him ironically; but Tommy shook his head, with the air
of a man who knows when to draw the line
said the auctioneer, more in
sorrow than in anger -- and the brass bottle became Ventimore's property.

He paid for it, and, since he could hardly walk home nursing a large
metal bottle without attracting an inconvenient amount of attention,
directed that it should be sent to his lodgings at Vincent Square.

But when he was out in the fresh air, walking westward to his club, he
found himself wondering more and more what could have possessed him to
throw away a guinea -- when he had few enough for legitimate expenses -- on
an article of such exceedingly problematical value
Ventimore made his way to Cottesmore Gardens that evening in a highly
inconsistent, not to say chaotic, state of mind. The thought that he
would presently see Sylvia again made his blood course quicker, while he
was fully determined to say no more to her than civility demanded.

At one moment he was blessing Professor Futvoye for his happy thought in
making use of him; at another he was bitterly recognising that it would
have been better for his peace of mind if he had been left alone. Sylvia
and her mother had no desire to see more of him; if they had, they would
have asked him to come before this. No doubt they would tolerate him now
for the Professor's sake; but who would not rather be ignored than
tolerated?

The more often he saw Sylvia the more she would make his heart ache with
vain longing -- whereas he was getting almost reconciled to her
indifference; he would very soon be cured if he didn't see her.

Why _should_ he see her? He need not go in at all. He had merely to
leave the catalogue with his compliments, and the Professor would learn
all he wanted to know.

On second thoughts he must go in -- if only to return the bank-note. But
he would ask to see the Professor in private. Most probably he would not
be invited to join his wife and daughter, but if he were, he could make
some excuse. They might think it a little odd -- a little discourteous,
perhaps; but they would be too relieved to care much about that.

When he got to Cottesmore Gardens, and was actually at the door of the
Futvoyes' house, one of the neatest and demurest in that retired and
irreproachable quarter, he began to feel a craven hope that the
Professor might be out, in which case he need only leave the catalogue
and write a letter when he got home, reporting his non-success at the
sale, and returning the note.

And, as it happened, the Professor _was_ out, and Horace was not so glad
as he thought he should be. The maid told him that the ladies were in
the drawing-room, and seemed to take it for granted that he was coming
in, so he had himself announced. He would not stay long -- just long
enough to explain his business there, and make it clear that he had no
wish to force his acquaintance upon them. He found Mrs. Futvoye in the
farther part of the pretty double drawing-room, writing letters, and
Sylvia, more dazzlingly fair than ever in some sort of gauzy black frock
with a heliotrope sash and a bunch of Parma violets on her breast, was
comfortably established with a book in the front room, and seemed
surprised, if not resentful, at having to disturb herself
he began, with an involuntary stiffness
interrupted Mrs. Futvoye, brusquely, while her
shrewd, light-grey eyes took him in with a cool stare that was
humorously observant without being aggressive
said Horace, with that frankness which scorns to
conceal what other people know perfectly well already
said Horace
said Mrs. Futvoye
stammered Horace
He was, as a rule, imperturbable in most social emergencies, but just
now he was seized with a wild desire to escape, which, to his infinite
mortification, made him behave like a shy schoolboy
said Mrs. Futvoye
he declared, wistfully enough
said Sylvia, cruelly
It would have been impossible to refuse to stay after that -- even if he
had wished. It would only be for a few minutes. Sylvia might spare him
that much of her time. He should not trouble her again. So Mrs. Futvoye
went back to her bureau, and Sylvia and he were practically alone.

She had taken a seat not far from his, and made a few constrained
remarks, obviously out of sheer civility. He returned mechanical
replies, with a dreary wonder whether this could really be the girl who
had talked to him with such charming friendliness and confidence only a
few weeks ago in Normandy.

And the worst of it was, she was looking more bewitching than ever; her
slim arms gleaming through the black lace of her sleeves, and the gold
threads in her soft masses of chestnut hair sparkling in the light of
the shaded lamp behind her. The slight contraction of her eyebrows and
the mutinous downward curve of her mouth seemed expressive of boredom
she said at
last
she said coldly
he said
she continued
he said, wincing
said Horace
All this was so near the truth, and yet missed it with such perverse
ingenuity, that Horace felt bound to put himself right
he said
said Sylvia, softly
she added, with a sudden smile, that made two
enchanting dimples in her cheeks
said Horace, gloomily, still determined not to let any
direct avowal pass his lips
Her half-closed eyes shone through their long lashes; the violets on her
breast rose and fell
she said, in a tone
that was both hurt and offended.

There is a pleasure in yielding to some temptations that more than
compensates for the pain of any previous resistance. Come what might, he
was not going to be misunderstood any longer
he said
he said penitently
she said, with a low, happy laugh
He caught her hand, which she allowed to rest contentedly in his
And
Sylvia rose and went into the farther room, and put her arms round her
mother's neck
she said, in a half whisper
said Mrs. Futvoye, as she
extricated herself from Sylvia's arms and turned to face Horace
Unfortunately, no" said Horace
pleaded Sylvia
said Mrs. Futvoye
said Horace
said Mrs. Futvoye
She was so clearly within her rights, and so much more indulgent than
Horace had expected -- for he had always considered her an unsentimental
and rather worldly woman -- that he accepted her conditions almost
gratefully. After all, it was enough for him that Sylvia returned his
love, and that he should be allowed to see her from time to time
said Sylvia, meditatively, a little later, when
her mother had gone back to her letter-writing, and she and Horace were
discussing the future
he said
And he
told her how he had come to acquire the brass bottle
said Sylvia
cried Sylvia, clasping her pretty hands
The Professor did not seem in the sweetest of humours as he entered the
drawing-room
said Horace, and proceeded to give his account of the
sale, which did not serve to improve the Professor's temper. He thrust
out his under lip at certain items in the catalogue
he said
said the Professor, testily
Horace had no grounds for knowing anything of the kind, and much reason
for believing the contrary, but he saw no use in arguing the matter
further, and merely said he was sorry to have misunderstood
said the Professor, in a tone that
implied the opposite
put in Sylvia
said the Professor
Horace described it
commented the
Professor, crustily
said Horace
And he made a rapid sketch from memory,
which the Professor took reluctantly, and then adjusted his glasses with
some increase of interest
cried Sylvia
said the Professor
said Horace
He left shortly afterwards, encouraged by the radiant trust in Sylvia's
eyes, and thrilled by the secret pressure of her hand at parting.

He had been amply repaid for all the hours he had spent in the close
sale-room. His luck had turned at last: he was going to succeed; he felt
it in the air, as if he were already fanned by Fortune's pinions.

Still thinking of Sylvia, he let himself into the semi-detached,
old-fashioned house on the north side of Vincent Square, where he had
lodged for some years. It was nearly twelve o'clock, and his landlady,
Mrs. Rapkin, and her husband had already gone to bed.

Ventimore went up to his sitting-room, a comfortable apartment with two
long windows opening on to a trellised verandah and balcony -- a room
which, as he had furnished and decorated it himself to suit his own
tastes, had none of the depressing ugliness of typical lodgings.

It was quite dark, for the season was too mild for a fire, and he had to
grope for the matches before he could light his lamp. After he had done
so and turned up the wicks, the first object he saw was the bulbous,
long-necked jar which he had bought that afternoon, and which now stood
on the stained boards near the mantelpiece. It had been delivered with
unusual promptitude!

Somehow he felt a sort of repulsion at the sight of it
he said to himself
disgustedly
He grasped it by its long, thick neck, and tried to twist the cap off;
but it remained firm, which was not surprising, seeing that it was
thickly coated with a lava-like crust
he decided; and
after foraging downstairs, he returned with a hammer and chisel, with
which he chipped away the crust till the line of the cap was revealed,
and an uncouth metal knob that seemed to be a catch.

This he tapped sharply for some time, and again attempted to wrench off
the lid. Then he gripped the vessel between his knees and put forth all
his strength, while the bottle seemed to rock and heave under him in
sympathy. The cap was beginning to give way, very slightly; one last
wrench -- and it came off in his hand with such suddenness that he was
flung violently backwards, and hit the back of his head smartly against
an angle of the wainscot.

He had a vague impression of the bottle lying on its side, with dense
volumes of hissing, black smoke pouring out of its mouth and towering up
in a gigantic column to the ceiling; he was conscious, too, of a pungent
and peculiarly overpowering perfume
he thought
And, just as he arrived at this cheerful
conclusion, he lost consciousness altogether.

He could not have been unconscious for more than a few seconds, for when
he opened his eyes the room was still thick with smoke, through which he
dimly discerned the figure of a stranger, who seemed of abnormal and
almost colossal height. But this must have been an optical illusion
caused by the magnifying effects of the smoke; for, as it cleared, his
visitor proved to be of no more than ordinary stature. He was elderly,
and, indeed, venerable of appearance, and wore an Eastern robe and
head-dress of a dark-green hue. He stood there with uplifted hands,
uttering something in a loud tone and a language unknown to Horace.

Ventimore, being still somewhat dazed, felt no surprise at seeing him.
Mrs. Rapkin must have let her second floor at last -- to some Oriental. He
would have preferred an Englishman as a fellow-lodger, but this
foreigner must have noticed the smoke and rushed in to offer assistance,
which was both neighbourly and plucky of him
he said, as he scrambled to his
feet
answered the stranger
said Horace
said Horace
said Ventimore
said the stranger, calmly
said Horace, blandly
He began to realise that he had to deal with an Oriental
lunatic, and must humour him to some extent. Fortunately he did not seem
at all dangerous, though undeniably eccentric-looking. His hair fell in
disorderly profusion from under his high turban about his cheeks, which
were of a uniform pale rhubarb tint; his grey beard streamed out in
three thin strands, and his long, narrow eyes, opal in hue, and set
rather wide apart and at a slight angle, had a curious expression, part
slyness and part childlike simplicity
said Horace, politely
said the other, with a sombre red glow in his opal eyes
thought Ventimore
continued the stranger
said Horace, as if it were an address in
the Court Directory
said Ventimore
was the
somewhat evasive reply
murmured Horace, in a tone that he could only
hope was sufficiently sympathetic
said Horace
thought Horace
he said aloud
and
Ventimore gave him one, which the other took and placed in his girdle
Horace confessed
Horace could not help thinking that any recommendation from such a
quarter would hardly carry much weight; but, as the poor old man
evidently imagined himself under an obligation, which he was anxious to
discharge, it would have been unkind to throw cold water on his good
intentions
he said lightly
said his visitor
and here a shade of rather pathetic doubt crossed his face
said Horace
said Horace, gently
said Horace,
soothingly, anxious to prevent this poor demented Asiatic from falling
into the hands of the police
As he spoke, the night wind bore across the square the sound of Big Ben
striking the quarters in Westminster Clock Tower, and then, after a
pause, the solemn boom that announced the first of the small hours
thought Ventimore
insisted the stranger
said Horace
As he finished this harangue the speaker seemed, to Ventimore's
speechless amazement, to slip through the wall behind him. At all
events, he had left the room somehow -- and Horace found himself alone.

He rubbed the back of his head, which began to be painful
he said to himself
Which he accordingly proceeded to do
When Ventimore woke next morning his headache had gone, and with it the
recollection of everything but the wondrous and delightful fact that
Sylvia loved him and had promised to be his some day. Her mother, too,
was on his side; why should he despair of anything after that? There was
the Professor, to be sure -- but even he might be brought to consent to an
engagement, especially if it turned out that the brass bottle ... and
here Horace began to recall an extraordinary dream in connection with
that extremely speculative purchase of his. He had dreamed that he had
forced the bottle open, and that it proved to contain, not manuscripts,
but an elderly Jinnee who alleged that he had been imprisoned there by
the order of King Solomon!

What, he wondered, could have put so grotesque a fancy into his head?
and then he smiled as he traced it to Sylvia's playful suggestion that
the bottle might contain a
as did the famous jar in the
and to her father's pedantic correction of the word to
Upon that slight foundation his sleeping brain had built up
all that elaborate fabric -- a scene so vivid and a story so
circumstantial and plausible that, in spite of its extravagance, he
could hardly even now persuade himself that it was entirely imaginary.
The psychology of dreams is a subject which has a fascinating mystery,
even for the least serious student.

As he entered the sitting-room, where his breakfast awaited him, he
looked round, half expecting to find the bottle lying with its lid off
in the corner, as he had last seen it in his dream.

Of course, it was not there, and he felt an odd relief. The
auction-room people had not delivered it yet, and so much the better,
for he had still to ascertain if it had anything inside it; and who knew
that it might not contain something more to his advantage than a
maundering old Jinnee with a grievance several thousands of years old?

Breakfast over, he rang for his landlady, who presently appeared. Mrs.
Rapkin was a superior type of her much-abused class. She was
scrupulously clean and neat in her person; her sandy hair was so smooth
and tightly knotted that it gave her head the colour and shape of a
Barcelona nut; she had sharp, beady eyes, nostrils that seemed to smell
battle afar off, a wide, thin mouth that apparently closed with a snap,
and a dry, whity-brown complexion suggestive of bran.

But if somewhat grim of aspect, she was a good soul and devoted to
Horace, in whom she took almost a maternal interest, while regretting
that he was not what she called "serious-minded enough" to get on in the
world. Rapkin had wooed and married her when they were both in service,
and he still took occasional jobs as an outdoor butler, though Horace
suspected that his more staple form of industry was the consumption of
gin-and-water and remarkably full-flavoured cigars in the basement
parlour
inquired Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace; and Mrs. Rapkin, who had a confirmed belief
that all clubs were hotbeds of vice and extravagance, sniffed
disapproval
he added
Mrs. Rapkin retired, to reappear presently with the brass bottle
she
explained
It certainly looked rather the better for it, and the marks or scratches
on the cap were more distinguishable, but Horace was somewhat
disconcerted to find that part of his dream was true -- the bottle had
been there
said Mrs. Rapkin, observing his
expression
said
Horace
said his landlady, staring
Horace started. Then _that_ part was true, too
he said
said Mrs. Rapkin,
with emphasis
As soon as she relieved him of her presence, he examined the bottle:
there was nothing whatever inside it, which disposed of all the hopes he
had entertained from that quarter.

It was not difficult to account for the visionary Oriental as an
hallucination probably inspired by the heavy fumes (for he now believed
in the fumes) which had doubtless resulted from the rapid decomposition
of some long-buried spices or similar substances suddenly exposed to the
air.

If any further explanation were needed, the accidental blow to the back
of his head, together with the latent suggestion from the
would amply provide it.

So, having settled these points to his entire satisfaction, he went to
his office in Great Cloister Street, which he now had entirely to
himself, and was soon engaged in drafting the specification for Beevor
on which he had been working when so fortunately interrupted the day
before by the Professor.

The work was more or less mechanical, and could bring him no credit and
little thanks, but Horace had the happy faculty of doing thoroughly
whatever he undertook, and as he sat there by his wide-open window he
soon became entirely oblivious of all but the task before him.

So much so that, even when the light became obscured for a moment, as if
by some large and opaque body in passing, he did not look up
immediately, and, when he did, was surprised to find the only armchair
occupied by a portly person, who seemed to be trying to recover his
breath
said Ventimore
His visitor could only wave his head in courteous deprecation, under
which there seemed a suspicion of bewildered embarrassment. He was a
rosy-gilled, spotlessly clean, elderly gentleman, with white whiskers;
his eyes, just then slightly protuberant, were shrewd, but genial; he
had a wide, jolly mouth and a double chin. He was dressed like a man who
is above disguising his prosperity; he wore a large, pear-shaped pearl
in his crimson scarf, and had probably only lately discarded his summer
white hat and white waistcoat
he began, in a rich, throaty voice, as soon as he could
speak
said Horace, wondering whether he could possibly intend
him to understand that he had come in by the window
said Horace
The stranger's eyes grew fish-like for the moment
He glanced round the room
said Horace
he put his hand in his pocket and produced a
card
said Horace
he said, with exactly the air of a man trying to convince
himself -- against his own judgment -- that he was acting with the utmost
prudence
inquired Horace
said Horace, genuinely gratified
thought Horace
he said dubiously
Horace, of course, concealed the fact that his visitor's
name and fame were unfamiliar to him
Here was the long-wished-for client at last! And it was satisfactory to
feel that he had arrived in the most ordinary and commonplace course,
for no one could look at Mr. Samuel Wackerbath and believe for a moment
that he was capable of floating through an upper window; he was not in
the least that kind of person
said Horace, with a calmness that
surprised himself
exclaimed Horace, who had expected about a tenth of
that sum
explained Mr. Wackerbath
said Horace
And he
proceeded to put the usual questions as to site, soil, available
building materials, the accommodation that would be required, and so on
said Mr. Wackerbath, at the end of the interview
With this Mr. Wackerbath departed, leaving Horace, as may be imagined,
absolutely overwhelmed by the suddenness and completeness of his good
fortune. He was no longer one of the unemployed: he had work to do, and,
better still, work that would interest him, give him all the scope and
opportunity he could wish for. With a client who seemed tractable, and
to whom money was clearly no object, he might carry out some of his most
ambitious ideas.

Moreover, he would now be in a position to speak to Sylvia's father
without fear of a repulse. His commission on &pound;60,000 would be &pound;3,000,
and that on the decorations and other work at least as much
again -- probably more. In a year he could marry without imprudence; in
two or three years he might be making a handsome income, for he felt
confident that, with such a start, he would soon have as much work as he
could undertake.

He was ashamed of himself for ever having lost heart. What were the last
few years of weary waiting but probation and preparation for this
splendid chance, which had come just when he really needed it, and in
the most simple and natural manner?

He loyally completed the work he had promised to do for Beevor, who
would have to dispense with his assistance in future, and then he felt
too excited and restless to stay in the office, and, after lunching at
his club as usual, he promised himself the pleasure of going to
Cottesmore Gardens and telling Sylvia his good news.

It was still early, and he walked the whole way, as some vent for his
high spirits, enjoying everything with a new zest -- the dappled grey and
salmon sky before him, the amber, russet, and yellow of the scanty
foliage in Kensington Gardens, the pungent scent of fallen chestnuts and
acorns and burning leaves, the blue-grey mist stealing between the
distant tree-trunks, and then the cheery bustle and brilliancy of the
High Street. Finally came the joy of finding Sylvia all alone, and
witnessing her frank delight at what he had come to tell her, of feeling
her hands on his shoulders, and holding her in his arms, as their lips
met for the first time. If on that Saturday afternoon there was a
happier man than Horace Ventimore, he would have done well to dissemble
his felicity, for fear of incurring the jealousy of the high gods.

When Mrs. Futvoye returned, as she did only too soon, to find her
daughter and Horace seated on the same sofa, she did not pretend to be
gratified
she began
he said
And he told her of the sudden alteration in his prospects
said Mrs. Futvoye
The Professor came in shortly afterwards, and Horace immediately
requested a few minutes' conversation with him in the study, which was
readily granted.

The study to which the Professor led the way was built out at the back
of the house, and crowded with Oriental curios of every age and kind;
the furniture had been made by Cairene cabinet-makers, and along the
cornices of the book-cases were texts from the Koran, while every chair
bore the Arabic for "Welcome" in a gilded firework on its leather back;
the lamp was a perforated mosque lantern with long pendent glass tubes
like hyacinth glasses; a mummy-case smiled from a corner with laboured
_bonhomie_
began the Professor, as soon as they were seated
For the moment Horace had almost forgotten the bottle
he said
said the Professor
and Horace briefly explained his object
said the Professor, rubbing up his hair irritably
said Horace
So, for the third time, Ventimore told the story of the sudden turn in
his fortunes
said the Professor
said Horace
remarked the Professor,
dryly
Ventimore gave this undertaking willingly enough, and they returned to
the drawing-room. Mrs. Futvoye could hardly avoid asking Horace, in his
new character of _fiance_, to stay and dine, which it need not be said
he was only too delighted to do
said the Professor, solemnly,
after dinner, when the neat parlourmaid had left them at dessert
cried Sylvia
said Horace
retorted the
Professor
pleaded Horace
said the Professor, with his wonted
amiability
said Horace
said Horace
replied the Professor,
with rather more interest
said the Professor
said Horace
He was eager to have the
privilege of entertaining Sylvia in his own rooms for the first time
said the Professor
put in Sylvia
observed her father
said Horace
stipulated the Professor
protested Sylvia, in distress at this somewhat
dictatorial speech
Here Sylvia made a
private little grimace
said the Professor, genially
said Horace, good-temperedly
Before he left, a provisional date for the dinner was fixed for an
evening towards the end of the next week, and Horace walked home,
treading on air rather than hard paving-stones, and
The next day he went down to Lipsfield and made the acquaintance of the
whole Wackerbath family, who were all enthusiastic about the proposed
country house. The site was everything that the most exacting architect
could desire, and he came back to town the same evening, having spent a
pleasant day and learnt enough of his client's requirements, and -- what
was even more important -- those of his client's wife and daughters, to
enable him to begin work upon the sketch-plans the next morning.

He had not been long in his rooms at Vincent Square, and was still
agreeably engaged in recalling the docility and ready appreciation with
which the Wackerbaths had received his suggestions and rough sketches,
their compliments and absolute confidence in his skill, when he had a
shock which was as disagreeable as it was certainly unexpected.

For the wall before him parted like a film, and through it stepped,
smiling benignantly, the green-robed figure of Fakrash-el-Aamash, the
Jinnee
Ventimore had so thoroughly convinced himself that the released Jinnee
was purely a creature of his own imagination, that he rubbed his eyes
with a start, hoping that they had deceived him
said his visitor
said Horace, as cordially as he could
It was all true, then: he had really let an imprisoned Genius or Jinnee,
or whatever it was, out of that bottle! He knew he could not be dreaming
now -- he only wished he were. However, since it was done, his best course
seemed to be to put a good face on it, and persuade this uncanny being
somehow to go away and leave him in peace for the future
he said
said Horace
said Horace
echoed the Jinnee, with an admiration that was
almost fatuous
said Horace
said Horace
said Horace
returned the Jinnee
Horace staggered under this severe blow to his pride; for the moment he
could only gasp
said the Jinnee, beaming with satisfaction
said Horace
said the unfortunate Horace
said Fakrash
he said
said the Jinnee
urged
Horace, who felt the absolute necessity of expelling any scheme of
further benevolence from the Jinnee's head once and for all
asked Fakrash, in
wonder
said Horace
said Horace
Fakrash smiled with indulgent compassion
said Horace,
hastily, with a mental vision of some helpless and scandalised stranger
being shot into his dwelling like coals
But Ventimore had seen enough of the Jinnee's Oriental methods to doubt
his tact and discretion where Sylvia was concerned
he said
said Fakrash
And, raising his joined hands above his head as he spoke, he sank, feet
foremost, through the carpet and was gone
thought Ventimore
Horace next asked himself whether he was bound in honour to disclose the
facts to Mr. Wackerbath, and give him the opportunity of withdrawing
from the agreement if he thought fit.

On the whole, he saw no necessity for telling him anything; the only
possible result would be to make his client suspect his sanity; and who
would care to employ an insane architect? Then, if he retired from the
undertaking without any explanations, what could he say to Sylvia? What
would Sylvia's father say to _him_? There would certainly be an end to
his engagement.

After all, he had not been to blame; the Wackerbaths were quite
satisfied. He felt perfectly sure that he could justify their selection
of him; he would wrong nobody by accepting the commission, while he
would only offend them, injure himself irretrievably, and lose all hope
of gaining Sylvia if he made any attempt to undeceive them.

And Fakrash was gone, never to return. So, on all these considerations,
Horace decided that silence was his only possible policy, and, though
some moralists may condemn his conduct as disingenuous and wanting in
true moral courage, I venture to doubt whether any reader, however
independent, straightforward, and indifferent to notoriety and ridicule,
would have behaved otherwise in Ventimore's extremely delicate and
difficult position.

Some days passed, every working hour of which was spent by Horace in the
rapture of creation. To every man with the soul of an artist in him
there comes at times -- only too seldom in most cases -- a revelation of
latent power that he had not dared to hope for. And now with Ventimore
years of study and theorising which he had often been tempted to think
wasted began to bear golden fruit. He designed and drew with a rapidity
and originality, a sense of perfect mastery of the various problems to
be dealt with, and a delight in the working out of mass and detail, so
intoxicating that he almost dreaded lest he should be the victim of some
self-delusion.

His evenings were of course spent with the Futvoyes, in discovering
Sylvia in some new and yet more adorable aspect. Altogether, he was very
much in love, very happy, and very busy -- three states not invariably
found in combination.

And, as he had foreseen, he had effectually got rid of Fakrash, who was
evidently too engrossed in the pursuit of Solomon to think of anything
else. And there seemed no reason why he should abandon his search for a
generation or two, for it would probably take all that time to convince
him that that mighty monarch was no longer on the throne
thought Horace
Horace's little dinner-party had been twice postponed, till he had begun
to have a superstitious fear that it would never come off; but at length
the Professor had been induced to give an absolute promise for a certain
evening.

On the day before, after breakfast, Horace had summoned his landlady to
a consultation on the _menu_
said Horace, who, though he would have liked to provide a feast
of all procurable delicacies for Sylvia's refection, was obliged to
respect her father's prejudices
As the ex-butler was liable to trances on these occasions during which
he could do nothing but smile and bow with speechless politeness as he
dropped sauce-boats and plates, Horace replied that he thought of having
someone in to avoid troubling Mr. Rapkin; but his wife expressed such
confidence in her husband's proving equal to all emergencies, that
Ventimore waived the point, and left it to her to hire extra help if she
thought fit
he inquired, as Mrs. Rapkin stood at
attention and quite unmollified.

After protracted mental conflict, she grudgingly suggested gravy
soup -- which Horace thought too unenterprising, and rejected in favour of
mock turtle
he continued
Mrs. Rapkin dragged the depths of her culinary resources for several
seconds, and finally brought to the surface what she called
Horace would not hear of it, and urged her to aspire to
salmon; she substituted smelts, which he opposed by a happy inspiration
of turbot and lobster sauce. The sauce, however, presented insuperable
difficulties to her mind, and she offered a compromise in the form of
cod -- which he finally accepted as a fish which the Professor could
hardly censure for ostentation.

Next came the no less difficult questions of _entree_ or no _entree_, of
joint and bird
said Horace
and glanced out of the window as he spoke, as though in search of
some outside suggestion
he suddenly exclaimed
repeated Mrs. Rapkin, in some
bewilderment; and then, remembering that he was given to untimely
flippancy, she gave a tolerant little cough
said Horace
Out of the faint mist which hung over the farther end of the square
advanced a procession of tall, dust-coloured animals, with long,
delicately poised necks and a mincing gait. Even Mrs. Rapkin could not
succeed in making anything of them except camels
said
Horace, with a sudden qualm for which he could not account
suggested his
landlady
cried Horace, intensely relieved
said Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace, irritably
she retorted
It was true enough. One by one the camels, which were apparently of the
purest breed, folded themselves up in a row like campstools at a sign
from their attendants, who were now making profound salaams towards the
window where Ventimore was standing
he said, with
rather a sickly smile
he thought, as he went
downstairs
As he appeared on the doorstep, all
the drivers flopped down and rubbed their flat, black noses on the
curbstone
said Horace angrily
said the head driver, in excellent
English
said Horace, between his teeth
explained the driver
Horace had not noticed till then that every camel bore a heavy burden,
which the attendants were now unloading
he said,
not too graciously
He returned to his rooms, where he found Mrs. Rapkin paralysed with
amazement
he said
said Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace
One after another, a train of dusky attendants entered, each of whom
deposited his load on the floor with a guttural grunt and returned
backward, until the sitting-room was blocked with piles of sacks, and
bales, and chests, whereupon the head driver appeared and intimated that
the tale of gifts was complete
thought Horace
But the overseer repudiated all idea of a gratuity with stately dignity,
and as Horace saw him to the gate, he found a stolid constable by the
railings
said the constable
said Horace, pressing into his hand the
sovereign the head driver had rejected
By this time the attendants had mounted the kneeling camels, which rose
with them, and swung off round the square in a long, swaying trot that
soon left the crowd far behind, staring blankly after the caravan as
camel after camel disappeared into the haze
said the
constable
said Horace, savagely, and returned to his room, which Mrs.
Rapkin had now left.

His hands shook, though not with joy, as he untied some of the sacks and
bales and forced open the outlandish-looking chests, the contents of
which almost took away his breath.

For in the bales were carpets and tissues which he saw at a glance must
be of fabulous antiquity and beyond all price; the sacks held golden
ewers and vessels of strange workmanship and pantomimic proportions; the
chests were full of jewels -- ropes of creamy-pink pearls as large as
average onions, strings of uncut rubies and emeralds, the smallest of
which would have been a tight fit in an ordinary collar-box, and
diamonds, roughly facetted and polished, each the size of a coconut, in
whose hearts quivered a liquid and prismatic radiance.

On the most moderate computation, the total value of these gifts could
hardly be less than several hundred millions; never probably in the
world's history had any treasury contained so rich a store.

It would have been difficult for anybody, on suddenly finding himself
the possessor of this immense incalculable wealth, to make any comment
quite worthy of the situation, but, surely, none could have been more
inadequate and indeed inappropriate than Horace's -- which, heartfelt as
it was, was couched in the simple monosyllable
Most men on suddenly finding themselves in possession of such enormous
wealth would have felt some elation. Ventimore, as we have seen, was
merely exasperated. And, although this attitude of his may strike the
reader as incomprehensible or absolutely wrong-headed, he had more
reason on his side than might appear at a first view.

It was undoubtedly the fact that, with the money these treasures
represented, he would be in a position to convulse the money markets of
Europe and America, bring society to his feet, make and unmake
kingdoms -- dominate, in short, the entire world
as Horace told himself with a groan
He called to mind all the millionaires he had ever read or heard of;
they didn't seem to get much fun out of their riches. The majority of
them were martyrs to dyspepsia. They were often weighed down by the
cares and responsibilities of their position; the only people who were
unable to obtain an audience of them at any time were their friends;
they lived in a glare of publicity, and every post brought them
hundreds of begging letters, and a few threats; their children were in
constant danger from kidnappers, and they themselves, after knowing no
rest in life, could not be certain that even their tombs would be
undisturbed. Whether they were extravagant or thrifty, they were equally
maligned, and, whatever the fortune they left behind them, they could be
absolutely certain that, in a couple of generations, it would be
entirely dissipated
concluded Horace
But there was another consideration -- how was he to realise all this
wealth? He knew enough about precious stones to be aware that a ruby,
for instance, of the true "pigeon's blood" colour and the size of a
melon, as most of these rubies were, would be worth, even when cut,
considerably over a million; but who would buy it
he reflected grimly
Got into the papers? Why, of course it would get into the papers. As if
it were possible in these days for a young and hitherto unemployed
architect suddenly to surround himself with wondrous carpets, and gold
vessels, and gigantic jewels without attracting the notice of some
enterprising journalist. He would be interviewed; the story of his
curiously acquired riches would go the round of the papers; he would
find himself the object of incredulity, suspicion, ridicule. In
imagination he could already see the headlines on the news-sheets:


            BOTTLED BILLIONS

    AMAZING ARABESQUES BY AN ARCHITECT

    HE SAYS THE JAR CONTAINED A JINNEE

            SENSATIONAL STORY

            DIVERTING DETAILS


And so on, through every phrase of alliterative ingenuity. He ground his
teeth at the mere thought of it. Then Sylvia would come to hear of it,
and what would _she_ think? She would naturally be repelled, as any
nice-minded girl would be, by the idea that her lover was in secret
alliance with a supernatural being. And her father and mother -- would
they allow her to marry a man, however rich, whose wealth came from such
a questionable source? No one would believe that he had not made some
unholy bargain before consenting to set this incarcerated spirit
free -- he, who had acted in absolute ignorance, who had persistently
declined all reward after realising what he had done!

No, it was too much. Try as he might to do justice to the Jinnee's
gratitude and generosity, he could not restrain a bitter resentment at
the utter want of consideration shown in overloading him with gifts so
useless and so compromising. No Jinnee -- however old, however unfamiliar
with the world as it is now -- had any right to be such a fool!

And at this, above the ramparts of sacks and bales, which occupied all
the available space in the room, appeared Mrs. Rapkin's face
she began,
with a dry cough of disapproval
To Horace -- surrounded as he was by incalculable riches -- sweetbreads
seemed incongruous just then; the transition of thought was too violent
he said
If he only knew where and how he could send them back
he said
said Horace, sharply, by no means anxious for the
Rapkins to discover the real nature of his treasures
And, indeed, considering that the table and every available chair, and
even the floor, were heaped so high with valuables that Horace himself
could only just squeeze his way between the piles, it seemed as if his
guests might find themselves inconveniently cramped
he said, with an optimism he was very far from
feeling
Before he left for his office he took the precaution to baffle any
inquisitiveness on the part of his landlady by locking his sitting-room
door and carrying away the key, but it was in a very different mood from
his former light-hearted confidence that he sat down to his
drawing-board in Great Cloister Street that morning. He could not
concentrate his mind; his enthusiasm and his ideas had alike deserted
him.

He flung down the dividers he had been using and pushed away the nest of
saucers of Indian ink and colours in a fit of petulance
he exclaimed aloud
Even as he spoke he became conscious of a presence in the room, and,
looking round, saw Fakrash the Jinnee standing at his elbow, smiling
down on him more benevolently than ever, and with a serene expectation
of being warmly welcomed and thanked, which made Horace rather ashamed
of his own inability to meet it
he thought,
self-reproachfully
said Fakrash
said Horace, feeling decidedly
embarrassed
replied Horace
answered the Jinnee
was the Jinnee's sententious
reply
Fakrash's brows contracted slightly
said Horace
said Horace, with sudden hope
said the Jinnee,
coldly
said Horace
said Fakrash
Horace felt a natural delicacy in giving his real reasons
he said
he thought
Fakrash was deeply impressed
he
cried
Horace could hardly believe that he had really prevailed
he said
replied Fakrash
said Horace
said Horace
he added gracefully
said Fakrash
said Horace
remarked the Jinnee, after he had
asked various by no means unintelligent questions and received the
answers
he concluded
said Horace, who had been on thorns for
some minutes lest Beevor should return and find him with his mysterious
visitor
he added instructively
replied the Jinnee
said Horace, feeling driven to silence this
maxim, if possible, with one of his own invention
cried
Fakrash
said Horace
said Ventimore, with hearty approval, for he hoped that this
would take the Jinnee some little time
said Fakrash
interrupted Horace
said the
Jinnee
said Horace, in a glow of impatience
he added, with an emotion that was not wholly insincere
returned the
Jinnee, who was apparently touched by this exordium
And stepping back into the fireplace, he was gone in an instant.

Ventimore sank back in his chair with a sigh of relief. He had begun to
fear that the Jinnee never would take himself off, but he had gone at
last -- and for good.

He was half ashamed of himself for feeling so glad, for Fakrash was a
good-natured old thing enough in his way. Only he _would_ overdo things:
he had no sense of proportion
thought Horace
But he had not done much before he heard sounds in the next room which
told him that Beevor had returned at last. He had been expected back
from the country for the last day or two, and it was fortunate that he
had delayed so long, thought Ventimore, as he went in to see him and to
tell him the unexpected piece of good fortune that he himself had met
with since they last met. It is needless to say that, in giving his
account, he abstained from any mention of the brass bottle or the
Jinnee, as unessential elements in his story.

Beevor's congratulations were quite as cordial as could be expected, as
soon as he fully understood that no hoax was intended
he said
said Ventimore
said Beevor
he added, with a touch of patronage
said Horace
said Horace. The truth was that he
was perfectly aware that the other would not be in sympathy with his
ideas; and Horace, who had just been suffering from a cold fit of
depression about his work, rather shrank from any kind of criticism
said Beevor, a little stiffly
said Horace,
laughing, as he went back to his own office, where he found that all his
former certainty and enjoyment of his work had returned to him, and by
the end of the day he had made so much progress that his designs needed
only a few finishing touches to be complete enough for his client's
inspection.

Better still, on returning to his rooms that evening to change before
going to Kensington, he found that the admirable Fakrash had kept his
promise -- every chest, sack, and bale had been cleared away
said Mrs.
Rapkin
said Horace
declared Mrs. Rapkin
Now that everything was gone, Horace felt a little natural regret and
doubt whether he need have been quite so uncompromising in his refusal
of the treasures
he thought
And really, considering his temperament and the peculiar nature of his
position, it is not easy to see how he could have arrived at any other
conclusion
Horace was feeling particularly happy as he walked back the next evening
to Vincent Square. He had the consciousness of having done a good day's
work, for the sketch-plans for Mr. Wackerbath's mansion were actually
completed and despatched to his business address, while Ventimore now
felt a comfortable assurance that his designs would more than satisfy
his client.

But it was not that which made him so light of heart. That night his
rooms were to be honoured for the first time by Sylvia's presence. She
would tread upon his carpet, sit in his chairs, comment upon, and
perhaps even handle, his books and ornaments -- and all of them would
retain something of her charm for ever after. If she only came! For even
now he could not quite believe that she really would; that some untoward
event would not make a point of happening to prevent her, as he
sometimes doubted whether his engagement was not too sweet and wonderful
to be true -- or, at all events, to last.

As to the dinner, his mind was tolerably easy, for he had settled the
remaining details of the _menu_ with his landlady that morning, and he
could hope that without being so sumptuous as to excite the Professor's
wrath, it would still be not altogether unworthy -- and what goods could
be rare and dainty enough?-- to be set before Sylvia.

He would have liked to provide champagne, but he knew that wine would
savour of ostentation in the Professor's judgment, so he had contented
himself instead with claret, a sound vintage which he knew he could
depend upon. Flowers, he thought, were clearly permissible, and he had
called at a florist's on his way and got some chrysanthemums of palest
yellow and deepest terra-cotta, the finest he could see. Some of them
would look well on the centre of the table in an old Nankin
blue-and-white bowl he had; the rest he could arrange about the room:
there would just be time to see to all that before dressing.

Occupied with these thoughts, he turned into Vincent Square, which
looked vaster than ever with the murky haze, enclosed by its high
railings, and under a wide expanse of steel-blue sky, across which the
clouds were driving fast like ships in full sail scudding for harbour
before a storm. Against the mist below, the young and nearly leafless
trees showed flat, black profiles as of pressed seaweed, and the sky
immediately above the house-tops was tinged with a sullen red from miles
of lighted streets; from the river came the long-drawn tooting of tugs,
mingled with the more distant wail and hysterical shrieks of railway
engines on the Lambeth lines.

And now he reached the old semi-detached house in which he lodged, and
noticed for the first time how the trellis-work of the veranda made,
with the bared creepers and hanging baskets, a kind of decorative
pattern against the windows, which were suffused with a roseate glow
that looked warm and comfortable and hospitable. He wondered whether
Sylvia would notice it when she arrived.

He passed under the old wrought-iron arch that once held an oil-lamp,
and up a short but rather steep flight of steps, which led to a brick
porch built out at the side. Then he let himself in, and stood
spellbound with perplexed amazement,-- for he was in a strange house.

In place of the modest passage with the yellow marble wall-paper, the
mahogany hat-stand, and the elderly barometer in a state of chronic
depression which he knew so well, he found an arched octagonal
entrance-hall with arabesques of blue, crimson, and gold, and
richly-embroidered hangings; the floor was marble, and from a shallow
basin of alabaster in the centre a perfumed fountain rose and fell with
a lulling patter
he thought, quite forgetting that his
latch-key had fitted, and he was just about to retreat before his
intrusion was discovered, when the hangings parted, and Mrs. Rapkin
presented herself, making so deplorably incongruous a figure in such
surroundings, and looking so bewildered and woebegone, that Horace, in
spite of his own increasing uneasiness, had some difficulty in keeping
his gravity
she lamented
Horace let all his chrysanthemums drop unheeded into the fountain. He
understood now: indeed, he seemed in some way to have understood almost
from the first, only he would not admit it even to himself.

The irrepressible Jinnee was at the bottom of this, of course. He
remembered now having made that unfortunate remark the day before about
the limited accommodation his rooms afforded.

Clearly Fakrash must have taken a mental note of it, and, with that
insatiable munificence which was one of his worst failings, had
determined, by way of a pleasant surprise, to entirely refurnish and
redecorate the apartments according to his own ideas.

It was extremely kind of him; it showed a truly grateful
disposition
as Horace thought, in the bitterness of his
soul
However, the thing was done now, and he must accept the responsibility
for it, since he could hardly disclose the truth
he said carelessly
said Horace, evading this point
said Mrs. Rapkin, with a sniff
It was not Ventimore's taste either, though he was not going to confess
it
he said
cried Horace
She drew the hangings aside, and revealed to Ventimore's astonished gaze
a vast pillared hall with a lofty domed roof, from which hung several
lamps, diffusing a subdued radiance. High up in the wall, on his left,
were the two windows which he judged to have formerly belonged to his
sitting-room (for either from delicacy or inability, or simply because
it had not occurred to him, the Jinnee had not interfered with the
external structure), but the windows were now masked by a perforated
and gilded lattice, which accounted for the pattern Horace had noticed
from without. The walls were covered with blue-and-white Oriental tiles,
and a raised platform of alabaster on which were divans ran round two
sides of the hall, while the side opposite to him was pierced with
horseshoe-shaped arches, apparently leading to other apartments. The
centre of the marble floor was spread with costly rugs and piles of
cushions, their rich hues glowing through the gold with which they were
intricately embroidered
said the unhappy Horace, scarcely knowing what he was saying
said Horace
said Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace, impatiently
He got rid of her, and, on entering one of the archways, discovered a
smaller room, in cedar-wood encrusted with ivory and mother-o'-pearl,
which was evidently his bedroom. A gorgeous robe, stiff with gold and
glittering with ancient gems, was laid out for him -- for the Jinnee had
thought of everything -- but Ventimore, naturally, preferred his own
evening clothes.

"Mr. Rapkin!" he shouted, going to another arch that seemed to
communicate with the basement.

"Sir?" replied his landlord, who had just returned from his
"reading-room," and now appeared, without a tie and in his
shirt-sleeves, looking pale and wild, as was, perhaps, intelligible in
the circumstances. As he entered his unfamiliar marble halls he
staggered, and his red eyes rolled and his mouth gaped in a cod-like
fashion. "They've been at it 'ere, too, seemin'ly
said Horace, quietly
said Horace
cried Ventimore
said Ventimore, sharply -- for it was obvious that Mr.
Rapkin's studies had been lightened by copious refreshment
said Mr. Rapkin, with a noble air
Here he waved his hand, and
sat down suddenly upon the marble floor
said Horace
said Rapkin, cautiously regaining
his feet
said Horace genially
said Rapkin, who was not far gone
enough to be beyond understanding or obeying
With this assurance he stumbled downstairs, leaving Horace relieved to
some extent. Rapkin would be sober enough after his head had been under
the tap for a few minutes, and in any case there would be the hired
waiter to rely upon.

If he could only find out where his evening clothes were! He returned to
his room and made another frantic search -- but they were nowhere to be
found; and as he could not bring himself to receive his guests in his
ordinary morning costume -- which the Professor would probably construe as
a deliberate slight, and which would certainly seem a solecism in Mrs.
Futvoye's eyes, if not in her daughter's -- he decided to put on the
Eastern robes, with the exception of a turban, which he could not manage
to wind round his head.

Thus arrayed he re-entered the domed hall, where he was annoyed to find
that no attempt had been made as yet to prepare a dinner-table, and he
was just looking forlornly round for a bell when Rapkin appeared. He had
apparently followed Horace's advice, for his hair looked wet and sleek,
and he was comparatively sober
cried Horace
he added, as he noted the man's overcoat and the comforter round
his throat
said Rapkin
said Horace
Horace said angrily, and then controlled himself
cried Horace
There was a knock, as he spoke, at the front door; and odd enough was
the familiar sound of the cast-iron knocker in that Arabian hall
he said, and the idea of meeting them at the door and
proposing an instant adjournment to a restaurant occurred to him -- till
he suddenly recollected that he would have to change and try to find
some money, even for that
he cried in
despair
said Rapkin
exclaimed Horace
He went out by the farther archway, while from the entrance-hall Horace
could hear voices he knew only too well. The Futvoyes had come; well, at
all events, it seemed that there would be something for them to eat,
since Fakrash, in his anxiety to do the thing thoroughly, had furnished
both the feast and attendance himself -- but who was there to announce the
guests? Where were these waiters Rapkin had spoken of? Ought he to go
and bring in his visitors himself?

These questions answered themselves the next instant, for, as he stood
there under the dome, the curtains of the central arch were drawn with a
rattle, and disclosed a double line of tall slaves in rich raiment,
their onyx eyes rolling and their teeth flashing in their chocolate-hued
countenances, as they salaamed.

Between this double line stood Professor and Mrs. Futvoye and Sylvia,
who had just removed their wraps and were gazing in undisguised
astonishment on the splendours which met their view.

Horace advanced to receive them; he felt he was in for it now, and the
only course left him was to put as good a face as he could on the
matter, and trust to luck to pull him through without discovery or
disaster
said Horace, as he shook hands
heartily with the Professor and Mrs. Futvoye
As a matter of fact, he was very far from being at ease, which made him
rather over-effusive, but he was determined that, if he could help it,
he would not betray the slightest consciousness of anything _bizarre_ or
unusual in his domestic arrangements
said Mrs. Futvoye, who was extremely stately in black,
with old lace and steel embroidery
she added, with a humorous twinkle in her
shrewd eyes
said the Professor, dryly, though it manifestly cost
him some effort to conceal his appreciation
said Horace
retorted the Professor
cried Sylvia, her charming
eyes dilating with admiration
She herself was lovely enough in a billowy, shimmering frock of a
delicate apple-green hue, her only ornament a deep-blue Egyptian scarab
with spread wings, which was suspended from her neck by a slender gold
chain
said
Horace, with embarrassment
said the Professor, conscious of being
correctly clad, and unconscious that his shirt-front was bulging and his
long-eared white tie beginning to work up towards his left jaw
said Sylvia
corrected the Professor
said Sylvia, and Ventimore
entirely agreed with her
explained Horace
said the Professor
answered Horace, who was beginning
to understand how very bad a _mauvais quart d'heure_ can be
exclaimed the Professor
said Horace
said the Professor, in his most unpleasant tone
said Horace, helplessly, as he saw a train of
attendants laying a round cloth on the floor
said the Professor
said Horace
he faltered
said the Professor.

By this time two of the slaves, under the direction of a tall and
turbaned black, had set a low ebony stool, inlaid with silver and
tortoiseshell in strange devices, on the round carpet, when other
attendants followed with a circular silver tray containing covered
dishes, which they placed on the stool and salaamed
said the Professor
said Ventimore
said Mrs. Futvoye
said the Professor
said Horace, for there was nothing but
four fat cushions
he proposed
said the Professor, irritably, as he let himself
down on the plumpest cushion
said Sylvia
remarked her father
he added snappishly, to
one of the slaves, who was attempting to pour water over his hands
said Horace
retorted
the Professor
Horace made no reply; he was too much occupied in gazing blankly at the
silver dish-covers and wondering what in the world might be underneath;
nor was his perplexity relieved when the covers were removed, for he was
quite at a loss to guess how he was supposed to help the contents
without so much as a fork.

The chief attendant, however, solved that difficulty by intimating in
pantomime that the guests were expected to use their fingers.

Sylvia accomplished this daintily and with intense amusement, but her
father and mother made no secret of their repugnance
observed the Professor
said Horace
He did not know precisely what kind of fish it was, but it was fried in
oil of sesame and flavoured with a mixture of cinnamon and ginger, and
the Professor did not appear to be making much progress with it.
Ventimore himself would have infinitely preferred the original cod and
oyster sauce, but that could not be helped now
said the Professor
Horace could only trust that the next course would be more of a success.
It was a dish of mutton, stewed with peaches, jujubes and sugar, which
Sylvia declared was delicious. Her parents made no comment
said the Professor, presently;
whereupon a cupbearer poured him a goblet of iced sherbet perfumed with
conserve of violets
he said, after sipping it
Another slave instantly handed him a cup of wine, which he tasted and
set down with a wry face and a shudder. Horace tried some afterwards,
and was not surprised. It was a strong, harsh wine, in which goatskin
and resin struggled for predominance
observed the Professor,
with studied politeness
Horace felt convinced that it would be useless to order the slaves to
bring whisky or Apollinaris, which were of course, unknown in the
Jinnee's time, so he could do nothing but apologise for their absence
said the Professor
It was some consolation that both Sylvia and her mother commended the
sherbet, and even appreciated -- or were so obliging as to say they
appreciated -- the _entree_, which consisted of rice and mincemeat wrapped
in vine-leaves, and certainly was not appetising in appearance, besides
being difficult to dispose of gracefully.

It was followed by a whole lamb fried in oil, stuffed with pounded
pistachio nuts, pepper, nutmeg, and coriander seeds, and liberally
besprinkled with rose-water and musk.

Only Horace had sufficient courage to attack the lamb -- and he found
reason to regret it. Afterwards came fowls stuffed with raisins,
parsley, and crumbled bread, and the banquet ended with pastry of weird
forms and repellent aspect
said Horace, anxiously
he himself was feeling distinctly unwell
replied the
Professor, not, it is to be feared, without intention
said Mrs. Futvoye
exclaimed Horace
he continued, feeling that he was in
danger of drivelling, and that he had better be as candid as he could
said the Professor
said Horace
remarked Sylvia
put in the Professor, acidly
put in his wife
said the Professor
said Horace
It was an extremely awkward question, as the reader will perceive. If
Ventimore replied -- as he might with truth -- that he had no intention
whatever of maintaining his wife in luxury such as that, he stood
convicted of selfish indulgence as a bachelor; if, on the other hand, he
declared that he _did_ propose to maintain his wife in the same
fantastic and exaggerated splendour as the present, it would certainly
confirm her father's disbelief in his prudence and economy.

And it was that egregious old ass of a Jinnee, as Horace thought, with
suppressed rage, who had let him in for all this, and who was now far
beyond all remonstrance or reproach!

Before he could bring himself to answer the question, the attendants had
noiselessly removed the tray and stool, and were handing round rosewater
in a silver ewer and basin, the character of which, luckily or
otherwise, turned the Professor's inquisitiveness into a different
channel
he said, inspecting the
design
said Horace
said the Professor, scenting a bargain
said Horace, lamely
said Horace, in a state of prickly heat
said Horace,
mendaciously
The slaves were now, with low obeisances, inviting them to seat
themselves on the divan which lined part of the hall
said the Professor, as he rose from his cushion, cracking audibly
said Horace
he
said, clapping his hands, which brought an obsequious slave instantly to
his side
The slave rolled his brandy-ball eyes in obvious perplexity
said Horace
But the slave clearly did not understand, and it suddenly struck Horace
that, since 'tobacco and coffee were not introduced, even in the East,
till long after the Jinnee's time, he, as the founder of the feast,
would naturally be unaware how indispensable they had become at the
present day.

"I'm really awfully sorry," he said; "but they don't seem to have
provided any. I shall speak to the manager about it. And, unfortunately,
I don't know where my own cigars are."

"It's of no consequence," said the Professor, with the sort of stoicism
that minds very much. "I am a moderate smoker at best, and Turkish
coffee, though delicious, is apt to keep me awake. But if you could let
me have a look at that brass bottle you got at poor Collingham's sale, I
should be obliged to you."

Horace had no idea where it was then, nor could he, until the Professor
came to the rescue with a few words of Arabic, manage to make the slaves
comprehend what he wished them to find.

At length, however, two of them appeared, bearing the brass bottle with
every sign of awe, and depositing it at Ventimore's feet.

Professor Futvoye, after wiping and adjusting his glasses, proceeded to
examine the vessel
he said
While he was poring over it, Horace seated himself on the divan by
Sylvia's side, hoping for one of the whispered conversations permitted
to affianced lovers; he had pulled through the banquet somehow, and on
the whole he felt thankful things had not gone off worse. The noiseless
and uncanny attendants, whom he did not know whether to regard as
Efreets, or demons, or simply illusions, but whose services he had no
wish to retain, had all withdrawn. Mrs. Futvoye was peacefully
slumbering, and her husband was in a better humour than he had been all
the evening.

Suddenly from behind the hangings of one of the archways came strange,
discordant sounds, barbaric janglings and thumpings, varied by yowls as
of impassioned cats.

Sylvia drew involuntarily closer to Horace; her mother woke with a
start, and the Professor looked up from the brass bottle with returning
irritation
he demanded
It was quite as much of a surprise for Horace, but he was spared the
humiliation of owning it by the entrance of some half-dozen dusky
musicians swathed in white and carrying various strangely fashioned
instruments, with which they squatted down in a semi-circle by the
opposite wall, and began to twang, and drub, and squall with the
complacent cacophony of an Eastern orchestra. Clearly Fakrash was
determined that nothing should be wanting to make the entertainment a
complete success
said Mrs. Futvoye
said Horace
said the poor lady
said Horace, with a fine assumption of candour
remarked Mrs. Futvoye
whispered Sylvia
And her hand stole softly into his, and he felt that he could forgive
Fakrash everything, even -- even the orchestra.

But there was something unpleasantly spectral about their shadowy forms,
which showed in grotesquely baggy and bulgy shapes in the uncertain
light. Some of them wore immense and curious white head-dresses, which
gave them the appearance of poulticed thumbs; and they all went on
scraping and twiddling and caterwauling with a doleful monotony that
Horace felt must be getting on his guests' nerves, as it certainly was
on his own.

He did not know how to get rid of them, but he sketched a kind of
gesture in the air, intended to intimate that, while their efforts had
afforded the keenest pleasure to the company generally, they were
unwilling to monopolise them any longer, and the artists were at liberty
to retire.

Perhaps there is no art more liable to misconstruction than pantomime;
certainly, Ventimore's efforts in this direction were misunderstood, for
the music became wilder, louder, more aggressively and abominably out of
tune -- and then a worse thing happened.

For the curtains separated, and, heralded by sharp yelps from the
performers, a female figure floated into the hall and began to dance
with a slow and sinuous grace.

Her beauty, though of a pronounced Oriental type, was unmistakable, even
in the subdued light which fell on her; her diaphanous robe indicated a
faultless form; her dark tresses were braided with sequins; she had the
long, lustrous eyes, the dusky cheeks artificially whitened, and the
fixed scarlet smile of the Eastern dancing-girl of all time.

And she paced the floor with her tinkling feet, writhing and undulating
like some beautiful cobra, while the players worked themselves up to yet
higher and higher stages of frenzy.

Ventimore, as he sat there looking helplessly on, felt a return of his
resentment against the Jinnee. It was really too bad of him; he ought,
at his age, to have known better!

Not that there was anything objectionable in the performance itself; but
still, it was _not_ the kind of entertainment for such an occasion.
Horace wished now he had mentioned to Fakrash who the guests were whom
he expected, and then perhaps even the Jinnee would have exercised more
tact in his arrangements
inquired Mrs. Futvoye, who
was now thoroughly awake
said Horace
These statements were, as he felt even in making them, not only
gratuitous, but utterly unconvincing, but he had arrived at that
condition in which a man discovers with terror the unsuspected amount of
mendacity latent in his system
remarked Mrs. Futvoye
said Horace, on the spur of the moment
explained Horace, conscious that Sylvia had withdrawn her hand
from his, and was regarding him with covert anxiety
he thought
he said aloud
And he rose and held out his hand as a sign that
the dance should cease.

It ceased at once; but, to his unspeakable horror, the dancer crossed
the floor with a swift jingling rush, and sank in a gauzy heap at his
feet, seizing his hand in both hers and covering it with kisses, while
she murmured speeches in some tongue unknown to him
said Mrs. Futvoye, bristling with not unnatural indignation
said the unhappy Horace
said the Professor
said Horace
he added
he added, as she made no offer to rise
The Professor said a few words, which had the desired effect. The girl
gave a little scream and scudded through the archway, and the musicians
seized their instruments and scuttled after her
said Horace, whose evening seemed to him to have been
chiefly spent in apologies
agreed the Professor
said Horace
said Mrs. Futvoye
said Horace
said Mrs.
Futvoye
said Horace
said Horace
cried the Professor, sharply
said Horace
he broke off
said Sylvia, simply
said Horace, slowly
put in the Professor
Horace confessed
echoed Horace
said Horace
said the Professor
Horace clapped his hands, but no one answered the summons, and he could
not find any of the slaves in the antechamber
he explained; and it is to be
feared he would have added that they were all obliged to return to the
contractor by eleven, only he caught the Professor's eye and decided
that he had better refrain
he added
said the Professor
protested Horace
admitted Horace
cried Sylvia
groaned Horace
said the Professor
Mrs. Futvoye had already hurried her daughter away, and, though she had
left her husband to express his sentiments unaided, she made it
sufficiently clear that she entirely agreed with them.

Horace stood in the outer hall by the fountain, in which his drowned
chrysanthemums were still floating, and gazed in stupefied despair after
his guests as they went down the path to the gate. He knew only too well
that they would never cross his threshold, nor he theirs, again.

Suddenly he came to himself with a start
he cried
And he rushed after them bareheaded
he said breathlessly, as he caught him up
replied the
Professor
urged Horace
Probably the Professor was not without some curiosity on the subject; at
all events he yielded
he said
he added
thought Horace, gloomily, as he returned to his Arabian halls
A little later the Professor returned, having found a cab and despatched
his women-folk home
he said, as he unwound his
wrapper and seated himself on the divan by Horace's side
It was not exactly an encouraging invitation in the circumstances, but
Horace took his courage in both hands and told him everything, just as
it had happened
said the Professor, after listening to the
narrative with the utmost attention, when Horace came to the end
said Horace
replied the Professor, in an altered tone
said Horace
objected Horace
cried Horace
said the Professor, soothingly
said Horace
said the Professor
said Horace
said the
Professor, compassionately
said Horace
said the Professor
said Horace
said the Professor
said Horace
said Horace
said the Professor, as he removed the metal cap and
put it in his pocket
he continued, almost affectionately
said Horace,
with rather a dreary laugh
replied the Professor, who was by this time
at the outer door
As soon as he was alone, Horace paced up and down his deserted halls in
a state of simmering rage as he thought how eagerly he had looked
forward to his little dinner-party; how intimate and delightful it might
have been, and what a monstrous and prolonged nightmare it had actually
proved. And at the end of it there he was -- in a fantastic, impossible
dwelling, deserted by every one, his chances of setting himself right
with Sylvia hanging on the slenderest thread; unknown difficulties and
complications threatening him from every side!

He owed all this to Fakrash. Yes, that incorrigibly grateful Jinnee,
with his antiquated notions and his high-flown professions, had
contrived to ruin him more disastrously than if he had been his
bitterest foe! Ah! if he could be face to face with him once more -- if
only for five minutes -- he would be restrained by no false delicacy: he
would tell him fairly and plainly what a meddling, blundering old fool
he was. But Fakrash had taken his flight for ever: there were no means
of calling him back -- nothing to be done now but go to bed and sleep -- if
he could!

Exasperated by the sense of his utter helplessness, Ventimore went to
the arch which led to his bed-chamber and drew the curtain back with a
furious pull. And just within the archway, standing erect with folded
arms and the smile of fatuous benignity which Ventimore was beginning to
know and dread, was the form of Fakrash-el-Aamash, the Jinnee
said Fakrash, by way of salutation, as he
stepped through the archway
said Horace, whose anger had almost evaporated in
the relief of the Jinnee's unexpected return
inquired
the Jinnee, glancing around the stately hall with perceptible
complacency.

It would have been positively brutal to say how very far from contented
he felt, so Horace could only mumble that he had never been lodged like
that before in all his life
Fakrash observed graciously
said Horace
remarked the Jinnee.

This was rather more than Horace's temper could stand
he said
said Horace
explained Horace, reluctantly
said Horace, gloomily
said Horace
exclaimed the Jinnee
said Horace
said Horace
said Fakrash
replied Horace
said the Jinnee
said Horace
the
Jinnee commented
said Horace
The effect of this speech on Fakrash was as unexpected as it was
inexplicable: the Jinnee's features, usually so mild, began to work
convulsively until they became terrible to look at, and suddenly, with a
fierce howl, he shot up to nearly double his ordinary stature
he cried, in a loud voice
Ventimore, startled as he was, did not lose his self-possession
he said
said the Jinnee, slowly resuming his normal size,
and looking slightly ashamed of his recent outburst as well as
uncommonly foolish
said Horace
cried Horace
said the Jinnee, smiling indulgently
Horace very willingly gave him the Professor's address
he thought it prudent to add
said Fakrash
said Horace
murmured
Horace, half to himself
said the Jinnee
Horace hesitated
he said
said the Jinnee
said Horace
said the Jinnee, with contempt
said Horace
said
Fakrash
replied Horace, in some anxiety as to what the
effect of his request would be
exclaimed Fakrash
said Horace
He raised his arms above his head, and shot up like a rocket towards the
lofty dome, which split asunder to let him pass. Horace, as he gazed
after him, had a momentary glimpse of deep blue sky, with a star or two
that seemed to be hurrying through the transparent opal scud, before
the roof closed in once more.

Then came a low, rumbling sound, with a shock like a mild earthquake:
the slender pillars swayed under their horseshoe arches; the big
hanging-lanterns went out; the walls narrowed, and the floor heaved and
rose -- till Ventimore found himself up in his own familiar sitting-room
once more, in the dark. Outside he could see the great square still
shrouded in grey haze -- the street lamps flickering in the wind; a
belated reveller was beguiling his homeward way by rattling his stick
against the railings as he passed.

Inside the room everything was exactly as before, and Horace found it
difficult to believe that a few minutes earlier he had been standing on
that same site, but twenty feet or so below his present level, in a
spacious blue-tiled hall, with a domed ceiling and gaudy pillared
arches.

But he was very far from regretting his short-lived splendour; he burnt
with shame and resentment whenever he thought of that nightmare banquet,
which was so unlike the quiet, unpretentious little dinner he had looked
forward to.

However, it was over now, and it was useless to worry himself about what
could not be helped. Besides, fortunately, there was no great harm done;
the Jinnee had been brought to see his mistake, and, to do him justice,
had shown himself willing enough to put it right. He had promised to go
and see the Professor next day, and the result of the interview could
not fail to be satisfactory. And after this, Ventimore thought, Fakrash
would have the sense and good feeling not to interfere in his affairs
again.

Meanwhile he could sleep now with a mind free from his worst anxieties,
and he went to his room in a spirit of intense thankfulness that he had
a Christian bed to sleep in. He took off his gorgeous robes -- the only
things that remained to prove to him that the events of that evening had
been no delusion -- and locked them in his wardrobe with a sense of
relief that he would never be required to wear them again, and his last
conscious thought before he fell asleep was the comforting reflection
that, if there were any barrier between Sylvia and himself, it would be
removed in the course of a very few more hours
Ventimore found next morning that his bath and shaving-water had been
brought up, from which he inferred, quite correctly, that his landlady
must have returned.

Secretly he was by no means looking forward to his next interview with
her, but she appeared with his bacon and coffee in a spirit so evidently
chastened that he saw that he would have no difficulty so far as she was
concerned
she began, apologetically
said Horace
said Mrs. Rapkin, running her hand nervously along the back
of a chair
said Horace, raising his eyebrows
said Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace
said Horace
said Horace
Mrs. Rapkin in her embarrassment was reduced to folding her apron into
small pleats
she replied
said Horace
blandly
said the good woman, considerably impressed by this
diagnosis
said Horace
said Horace
He felt sincerely thankful to have got out of it so easily, for it was
impossible to say what gossip might not have been set on foot if the
Rapkins had not been brought to see the advisability of reticence on the
subject
said
Mrs. Rapkin
said Horace
said Horace, rather relieved, for he had an ill-defined dread from
her opening words that the bottle might have been misbehaving itself in
some way
said Mrs. Rapkin,
as she closed the door upon herself.

Altogether, Horace walked to Great Cloister Street that morning in a
fairly cheerful mood and amiably disposed, even towards the Jinnee. With
all his many faults, he was a thoroughly good-natured old devil -- very
superior in every way to the one the Arabian Nights fisherman found in
_his_ bottle
thought Horace
He was at his table, engaged in jotting down some rough ideas for the
decoration of the reception-rooms in the projected house, when Beevor
came in
he said
Ventimore had to explain that even the imperfect method of examination
proposed was not possible, as he had despatched the drawings to his
client the night before
said Beevor
said Horace, gaily
said Beevor
said Beevor
he added, as he left the room
thought Horace, repentantly
He returned from lunch to hear what sounded like an altercation of some
sort in his office, in which, as he neared his door, Beevor's voice was
distinctly audible
he was saying
said another voice
replied Beevor, as Ventimore opened the door
Horace entered, to find himself confronted by Mr. Wackerbath, whose face
was purple and whose white whiskers were bristling with rage
he began
and choked ignominiously
explained Beevor, with a studious correctness which was only a shade
less offensive than open triumph
exclaimed Mr. Wackerbath, with an apoplectic snort
said Horace
Mr. Wackerbath gasped
he added, waving a plump hand in Beevor's
direction
said Beevor, smoothly
So saying, Beevor retired to his own room, and shut the door with the
same irreproachable discretion, which conveyed that he was not in the
least surprised, but was too much of a gentleman to show it
began Horace, when they were alone
said Mr. Wackerbath, furiously
Horace's heart sank lower still; had he deceived himself after all,
then? Had he been nothing but a conceited fool, and -- most galling
thought of all -- had Beevor judged him only too accurately? And yet, no,
he could not believe it -- he _knew_ his work was good
he said
sputtered Mr. Wackerbath
continued Horace
said Horace
Mr. Wackerbath well-nigh howled
said Horace, whose own temper was
getting a little frayed
said Horace, feeling deathly sick
said Mr. Wackerbath
replied Horace
he added, with a touch of bitterness
cried Mr. Wackerbath
echoed Horace feebly
Then Horace understood. His indefatigable Jinnee had been at work again!
Of course, for Fakrash it must have been what he would term
especially after a glance at the plans (and Ventimore
remembered that the Jinnee had surprised him at work upon them, and even
requested to have them explained to him)-- to dispense with contractors
and bricklayers and carpenters, and construct the entire building in the
course of a single night.

It was a generous and spirited action -- but, particularly now that the
original designs had been found faulty and rejected, it placed the
unfortunate architect in a most invidious position
said Mr. Wackerbath, with elaborate irony
began Horace, utterly broken down; and then he saw, with
emotions that may be imagined, the Jinnee himself, in his green robes,
standing immediately behind Mr. Wackerbath
said Fakrash, coming forward with his smile of
amiable cunning
he added, addressing the startled
estate agent, who had jumped visibly
and he laid a hand on Horace's shrinking shoulder
said Mr. Wackerbath, in some mystification
put in Horace
inquired the
Jinnee, beaming with pride
shouted the infuriated Mr. Wackerbath
Horace's dismay was curiously shot with relief. The Jinnee, who was
certainly very far from being a genius except by courtesy, had taken it
upon himself to erect the palace according to his own notions of Arabian
domestic luxury -- and Horace, taught by bitter experience, could
sympathise to some extent with his unfortunate client. On the other
hand, it was balm to his smarting self-respect to find that it was not
his own plans, after all, which had been found so preposterous; and, by
some obscure mental process, which I do not propose to explain, he
became reconciled, and almost grateful, to the officious Fakrash. And
then, too, he was _his_ Jinnee, and Horace had no intention of letting
him be bullied by an outsider
he said
stormed Mr. Wackerbath
repeated Fakrash, gently
he cried, with an abrupt and entire change of manner
It was both painful and grotesque to see the portly and intensely
respectable Mr. Wackerbath suddenly drop forward on his hands while
desperately striving to preserve his dignity
he
almost barked
replied the Jinnee, throwing open the door
whimpered the unhappy man
Horace had been too shocked and startled to speak before, but now
humanity, coupled with disgust for the Jinnee's high-handed methods,
compelled him to interfere
he said
said Fakrash
yelped poor Mr. Wackerbath
said Horace to the Jinnee
was the reply
he said to the
humiliated client
It was this precise moment which Beevor, who was probably unable to
restrain his curiosity any longer, chose to re-enter the room
he began
said Mr. Wackerbath, as he scrambled awkwardly to his
feet, his usually florid face mottled in grey and lilac
He bowed himself past the Jinnee in a state of deference and
apprehension, and was heard stumbling down the staircase. Horace hardly
dared to meet Beevor's eyes, which were fixed upon the green-turbaned
Jinnee, as he stood apart in dreamy abstraction, smiling placidly to
himself
Beevor said to Horace, at last, in an undertone
whispered Ventimore
remarked Beevor
said Horace
replied Beevor, still below his voice
he added
said Horace
began the Jinnee, after Beevor, with suspicion and
disapproval evident even on his back and shoulders, had retreated to
his own room
retorted Horace, whose nerves were unequal to much reference
to Solomon just then
said Horace, dryly
Horace groaned
said Horace
returned the Jinnee
remarked the Jinnee
said Fakrash, a little abashed
said Horace, boldly
said the Jinnee, in an aggravated tone
urged Horace
said Fakrash
and he muttered some words and made a
sweeping gesture with his right hand
thought Horace
he said aloud
cried the Jinnee
said Horace
remarked Fakrash
Horace exclaimed
answered the Jinnee
cried Horace, only too glad to be able to
commend with sincerity
said Fakrash, with his weak and yet inscrutable smile
asked Horace
There was the oddest expression in the Jinnee's furtive eyes: a kind of
elfin mischief combined with a sense of wrong-doing, like a naughty
child whose palate is still reminiscent of illicit jam
he
replied, with a sound between a giggle and a chuckle
cried Horace. But, whether to avoid thanks or explanations,
the Jinnee had disappeared with his customary abruptness
shouted Horace
There was no answer; the Jinnee might be well on
his way to Lake Chad, or Jericho, by that time -- he was certainly far
enough from Great Cloister Street.

Horace sat down at his drawing-table, and, his head buried in his hands,
tried to think out this latest complication. Fakrash had transformed
Professor Futvoye into a one-eyed mule. It would have seemed incredible,
almost unthinkable, once, but so many impossibilities had happened to
Horace of late that one more made little or no strain upon his
credulity.

What he felt chiefly was the new barrier that this event must raise
between himself and Sylvia; to do him justice, the mere fact that the
father of his _fiancee_ was a mule did not lessen his ardour in the
slightest. Even if he had felt no personal responsibility for the
calamity, he loved Sylvia far too well to be deterred by it, and few
family cupboards are without a skeleton of some sort.

With courage and the determination to look only on the bright side of
things, almost any domestic drawback can be lived down.

But the real point, as he instantly recognised, was whether in the
changed condition of circumstances Sylvia would consent to marry _him_.
Might she not, after the experiences of that abominable dinner of his
the night before, connect him in some way with her poor father's
transformation? She might even suspect him of employing this means of
compelling the Professor to renew their engagement; and, indeed, Horace
was by no means certain himself that the Jinnee might not have acted
from some muddle-headed motive of this kind. It was likely enough that
the Professor, after learning the truth, should have refused to allow
his daughter to marry the _protege_ of so dubious a patron, and that
Fakrash had then resorted to pressure.

In any case, Ventimore knew Sylvia well enough to feel sure that pride
would steel her heart against him so long as this obstacle remained.

It would be unseemly to set down here all that Horace said and thought
of the person who had brought all this upon them, but after some wild
and futile raving he became calm enough to recognise that his proper
place was by Sylvia's side. Perhaps he ought to have told her at first,
and then she would have been less unprepared for this -- and yet how could
he trouble her mind so long as he could cling to the hope that the
Jinnee would cease to interfere?

But now he could be silent no longer; naturally the prospect of calling
at Cottesmore Gardens just then was anything but agreeable, but he felt
it would be cowardly to keep away.

Besides, he could cheer them up; he could bring with him a message of
hope. No doubt they believed that the Professor's transformation would
be permanent -- a harrowing prospect for so united a family; but,
fortunately, Horace would be able to reassure them on this point.

Fakrash had always revoked his previous performances as soon as he could
be brought to understand their fatuity -- and Ventimore would take good
care that he revoked this.

Nevertheless, it was with a sinking heart and an unsteady hand that he
pulled the visitors' bell at the Futvoyes' house that afternoon, for he
neither knew in what state he should find that afflicted family, nor how
they would regard his intrusion at such a time
Jessie, the neat and pretty parlour-maid, opened the door with a smile
of welcome which Horace found reassuring. No girl, he thought, whose
master had suddenly been transformed into a mule could possibly smile
like that. The Professor, she told him, was not at home, which again was
comforting. For a _savant_, however careless about his personal
appearance, would scarcely venture to brave public opinion in the
semblance of a quadruped
he inquired, to make sure
said the maid
This was encouraging, too, since a mule could hardly engage in literary
labour of any kind. Evidently the Jinnee must either have overrated his
supernatural powers, or else have been deliberately amusing himself at
Horace's expense
he said
said the girl
He had not been in the drawing-room long before Mrs. Futvoye appeared,
and one glance at her face confirmed Ventimore's worst fears. Outwardly
she was calm enough, but it was only too obvious that her calmness was
the result of severe self-repression; her eyes, usually so shrewdly and
placidly observant, had a haggard and hunted look; her ears seemed on
the strain to catch some distant sound
she began, in a tone of
studied reserve
said Horace, looking into his hat
said the poor lady, with a really heroic effort to
appear surprised
she asked, with a flash of suspicion
said
Horace, with his eyes on the carpet
said Mrs. Futvoye, regaining her composure
said Horace, with reviving hope
cried Mrs. Futvoye, with an irrepressible start
she explained
replied the courageous woman
Horace had no difficulty in believing it
he pleaded
said Mrs. Futvoye
If any departure from strict truth can ever be excusable, this surely
was one; unfortunately, just then Sylvia herself burst into the room
she cried, without seeing Horace in her agitation
she broke off, as she saw who was in the
room
said Horace, going to her and taking both her hands
cried Sylvia, reproachfully
replied her mother
she
added, with a warning glance at her daughter
And she hurried out of the room.

Sylvia sat down and gazed silently into the fire
she remarked
presently
said Horace, sympathetically
continued Sylvia
said Horace gently
cried Sylvia
said Horace
she put in anxiously
said Horace, trying to put it as considerately as
possible
sobbed Sylvia, breaking down entirely
declared Horace, as he knelt by her chair
endeavouring to comfort her
said Sylvia,
tearfully
Horace mildly explained
She started up and looked at him, her eyes widened with dawning dread
and mistrust
she said
she replied
said Horace, fervently
he protested, still anxious, if possible, to keep the
worst from her
she said slowly
said Sylvia
said Sylvia frankly
he replied
And, as briefly as possible, he told her how he had
unsealed the brass bottle, and all that had come of it.

She bore it, on the whole, better than he had expected; perhaps, being a
woman, it was some consolation to her to remind him that she had
foretold something of this kind from the very first
she said
said Horace
inquired Sylvia, with a little curl of her upper lip
said Horace
said Sylvia
Horace answered confidently
he said, as
that lady re-entered the room
was the nervous reply
said Horace
put in Sylvia
Mrs. Futvoye sank helplessly down on a settee
she said
Privately, though naturally he could not say so, Horace thought a vet.
might be more appropriate, but eventually he persuaded Mrs. Futvoye to
conduct him to her husband's study
she said, as she knocked gently at the door
It seemed from the sounds of furious snorting and stamping within, that
the Professor resented this intrusion on his privacy
said his devoted wife, as she unlocked the door and turned the key on
the inside after admitting Horace
As for Ventimore, he was speechless -- so inexpressibly shocked was he by
the alteration in the Professor's appearance. He had never seen a mule
in sorrier condition or in so vicious a temper. Most of the lighter
furniture had been already reduced to matchwood; the glass doors of the
bookcase were starred or shivered; precious Egyptian pottery and glass
were strewn in fragments on the carpets, and even the mummy, though it
still smiled with the same enigmatic cheerfulness, seemed to have
suffered severely from the Professorial hoofs.

Horace instinctively felt that any words of conventional sympathy would
jar here; indeed, the Professor's attitude and expression reminded him
irresistibly of a certain "Blondin Donkey" he had seen enacted by
music-hall artists, at the point where it becomes sullen and defiant.
Only, he had laughed helplessly at the Blondin Donkey, and somehow he
felt no inclination to laugh now
he began
For, the mule, in a clumsy, shambling way which
betrayed the novice, was slowly revolving on his own axis so as to bring
his hind-quarters into action, while still keeping his only serviceable
eye upon his unwelcome visitor
said Horace, manoeuvring in his turn
The mule appeared impressed by this, and backed cumbrously into a
corner, from which he regarded Horace with a mistrustful, but attentive,
eye
continued Horace
The
mule's right ear rose with a sharp twitch
said Horace
At this the exasperated animal made a sudden run at him with his mouth
open, which obliged Horace to shelter himself behind a large leather
arm-chair
he remonstrated
The
Professor's tail instantly swept some rare Arabian glass lamps and vases
from a shelf at his rear, whereupon Mrs. Futvoye went out, and returned
presently with a bottle of champagne and a large china _jardiniere_, as
the best substitute she could find for a bucket.

When the mule had drained the flower-pot greedily and appeared
refreshed, Horace proceeded
he said
The Professor drooped his ears at this, and shook his head with a
doleful incredulity that made him look more like the Pantomime Donkey
than ever
said Horace
But the Professor turned his back in so pointed and ominous a manner
that Horace judged it better to withdraw without insisting further
he said to Mrs. Futvoye, after they had rejoined Sylvia in the
drawing-room
replied the lady, rather
tartly
said Horace
said Sylvia
cried Horace, cut to the quick
he said
He would have held her in his arms, but she kept him at a distance
she said
Horace recognised that no appeal would draw a more definite answer from
her just then; so he took his leave, with the feeling that, after all,
matters must improve before very long, and in the meantime he must bear
the suspense with patience.

He got through dinner as well as he could in his own rooms, for he did
not like to go to his club lest the Jinnee should suddenly return during
his absence
he reflected
He sat up late, in the hope that Fakrash would appear; but the Jinnee
made no sign, and Horace began to get uneasy
he thought
It was maddening to think of the unhappy Professor still fretting away
hour after hour in the uncongenial form of a mule, waiting impatiently
for the relief that never came. If it lingered much longer, he might
actually starve, unless his family thought of getting in some oats for
him, and he could be prevailed upon to touch them. And how much longer
could they succeed in concealing the nature of his affliction? How long
before all Kensington, and the whole civilised world, would know that
one of the leading Orientalists in Europe was restlessly prancing on
four legs around his study in Cottesmore Gardens?

Racked by speculations such as these, Ventimore lay awake till well into
the small hours, when he dropped off into troubled dreams that, wild as
they were, could not be more grotesquely fantastic than the realities to
which they were the alternative
Not even his morning tub could brace Ventimore's spirits to their usual
cheerfulness. After sending away his breakfast almost untasted he stood
at his window, looking drearily out over the crude green turf of Vincent
Square at the indigo masses of the Abbey and the Victoria Tower and the
huge gasometers to the right which loomed faintly through a dun-coloured
haze.

He felt a positive loathing for his office, to which he had gone with
such high hopes and enthusiasm of late. There was no work for him to do
there any longer, and the sight of his drawing-table and materials
would, he knew, be intolerable in their mute mockery.

Nor could he with any decency present himself again at Cottesmore
Gardens while the situation still remained unchanged, as it must do
until he had seen Fakrash.

When would the Jinnee return, or -- horrible suspicion!-- did he never
intend to return at all
he groaned aloud
said a well-known voice behind him, and he turned to
see the Jinnee standing smiling on the hearthrug -- and at this
accomplishment of his dearest desire all his indignation surged back
he said irritably
was the bland reply
retorted Horace
answered the Jinnee, who, like many highly
estimable persons, was almost impervious to irony
said Horace, fuming
replied the Jinnee
said Horace
Horace broke out
said the Jinnee,
complacently running his fingers through the thin strands of his beard
was the sententious
answer
cried Horace, hardly believing his ears
said Fakrash, coldly
repeated Horace, feeling a cold clutch at his heart
said the Jinnee, sullenly
retorted Horace
he urged,
descending to flattery
said Fakrash, though he was obviously
pleased by this tribute to his talent
insinuated Horace
said Horace
answered the Jinnee, after a pause
cried Horace
said the Jinnee
the Jinnee admitted reluctantly
said Fakrash, in a tone not altogether free
from a kind of sombre complacency
said Horace, who had a private
impression that the Jinnee's "past" would probably turn out to be
chiefly made up of peccadilloes
said Fakrash
said Horace
said the Jinnee, in visible alarm
said Horace
inquired Fakrash
said Horace, seeing his advantage, and pushing it
unscrupulously
said the Jinnee
said Horace
said
Horace
said the Jinnee
agreed Horace
inquired the Jinnee, as his green turban and
flowing robes suddenly resolved themselves into the conventional
chimney-pot hat, frock-coat, and trousers of modern civilisation.

He bore a painful resemblance in them to the kind of elderly gentleman
who comes on in the harlequinade to be bonneted by the clown; but Horace
was in no mood to be critical just then
he said encouragingly
he added, as
he led the way to the hall and put on his own hat and overcoat
said the Jinnee,
seizing him by the arm above the elbow; and Horace found himself
suddenly carried up into the air and set down, gasping with surprise and
want of breath, on the pavement opposite the Futvoyes' door
he said, as soon as he could speak
said Fakrash
said Horace
he added
answered the Jinnee, and suddenly sank, or
seemed to sink, through a chink in the pavement.

Horace, after ringing at the Futvoyes' door, was admitted and shown into
the drawing-room, where Sylvia presently came to him, looking as lovely
as ever, in spite of the pallor due to sleeplessness and anxiety
she said, with the unnatural calm of
suppressed hysteria
she broke out, unexpectedly
said Horace
cried Sylvia
exclaimed Sylvia, recoiling
said Horace
said Sylvia, with a shudder
Horace went to the window and gave the signal, though there was no one
in sight. However, it was evidently seen, for the next moment there was
a resounding blow at the front door, and a little later Jessie, the
parlour-maid, announced
and the Jinnee stalked gravely in, with his tall hat on his head
said Horace
The Jinnee removed
his hat with both hands, and stood silent and impassive
Ventimore continued
There was a momentary gleam in Fakrash's odd, slanting eyes as they
lighted on Sylvia's shrinking figure, but he made no acknowledgment of
the introduction
he remarked to Horace
said Ventimore,
sharply
said Sylvia, almost in a whisper
said Fakrash to Horace,
still ignoring Sylvia
said Horace
said the Jinnee, with a cunning
assumption of indifference
cried Horace, utterly unprepared for this conclusion
said Horace
said the Jinnee, addressing Sylvia for the first time
cried Sylvia
said Fakrash
said Horace
said the Jinnee
cried Sylvia
groaned Ventimore
he added
said the Jinnee, in the most obliging manner in the
world, and vanished instantly
began Horace, after he had gone
said poor Sylvia
said Horace
And he told her the story of the mushroom
palace and Mr. Wackerbath's withdrawal
he
concluded
said Sylvia
he replied, ruefully enough
she cried
said Horace
she said
He had a dismal conviction that she was right
he said drearily
she said
asked the Jinnee, suddenly re-appearing
Horace answered for her
said Fakrash
Outside they met Mrs. Futvoye on her way from the study
she exclaimed
said Horace
exclaimed the distressed lady, who was
by this time far beyond either surprise or resentment
and she led the way to her husband's
room.

As soon as the door was opened the Professor seemed to recognise his
tormentor in spite of his changed raiment, and was so powerfully
agitated that he actually reeled on his four legs, and "stood over" in
a lamentable fashion
began the Jinnee
The Professor spoke; and the effect of articulate speech proceeding from
the mouth of what was to all outward seeming an ordinary mule was
strange beyond description
he said
sullenly
said Fakrash
said the mule, savagely
The Jinnee unlocked the drawer, and took out the metal cap, which he
placed in the breast pocket of his incongruous frock-coat
he said
said the mule, laying back his
ears viciously
said the Jinnee
The mule rolled his one eye, and showed all his teeth in a vicious
snarl
he said
Fakrash found the paper, which he rubbed into invisibility between his
palms, as any ordinary conjurer might do
he said
which oath the
Professor, in the vilest of tempers, took, clumsily enough
said the Jinnee, with a grim smile
Sylvia went out, and came back with a cup of water
she
said anxiously
said Fakrash
remonstrated Mrs. Futvoye
snapped the ungrateful mule
They left accordingly; whereupon Fakrash took the cup -- an ordinary
breakfast cup with a Greek key-border pattern in pale blue round the
top -- and, drenching the mule with the contents, exclaimed
For a dreadful moment or two it seemed as if no effect was to be
produced; the animal simply stood and shivered, and Ventimore began to
feel an agonising suspicion that the Jinnee really had, as he had first
asserted, forgotten how to perform this particular incantation.

All at once the mule reared, and began to beat the air frantically with
his fore-hoofs; after which he fell heavily backward into the nearest
armchair (which was, fortunately, a solid and capacious piece of
furniture) with his fore-legs hanging limply at his side, in a
semi-human fashion. There was a brief convulsion, and then, by some
gradual process unspeakably impressive to witness, the man seemed to
break through the mule, the mule became merged in the man -- and Professor
Futvoye, restored to his own natural form and habit, sat gasping and
trembling in the chair before them
As soon as the Professor seemed to have regained his faculties, Horace
opened the door and called in Sylvia and her mother, who were, as was
only to be expected, overcome with joy on seeing the head of the family
released from his ignoble condition of a singularly ill-favoured
quadruped
said the Professor, as he submitted to their embraces
and incoherent congratulations
he added, with an unreasonable
outburst of ill-temper
said Sylvia,
tactfully ignoring the fact that there was scarcely an undamaged article
in the room
said her father
exclaimed Fakrash
said the Professor
he added, turning to
Horace
said Sylvia, tremulously
explained Fakrash, suavely
This frankness was rather too much for the Professor, whose temper had
not been improved by his recent trials
he snapped
remarked the imperturbable Jinnee
the Professor hastened to
observe
Horace could not help throwing in, though in so discreet
an undertone that it was inaudible
replied Fakrash
cried Sylvia, justly incensed
said the unhappy Horace
he added, in a
whisper
said Sylvia, biting her lip
he replied
he
added
said Horace,
while Sylvia gave a little low cry
counselled the Jinnee
said Horace, savagely
said Fakrash
The awful vagueness of this threat completely crushed Horace; he could
not think, he did not even dare to imagine, what consequences he might
bring upon his beloved Sylvia and her helpless parents by persisting in
his refusal
he said heavily
said the Professor, with acidulous politeness
said Horace, between his teeth
answered the Jinnee, and, to Mrs.
Futvoye's and Sylvia's alarm, disappeared through one of the bookcases
said Horace, gloomily
said the Professor
he added pointedly
said Horace, still lingering
she said
he cried
she replied
he said
she said
groaned the exasperated Horace
was all Sylvia could be
induced to say
said Horace
said the Professor, stiffly
said Mrs. Futvoye, more kindly
said the Professor
If the Professor could say that truthfully amidst the general wreck in
which he sat, like another Marius, he had little to learn in the gentle
art of self-deception; but there was nothing to gain by contradicting
him then
said Horace, and held out his hand
she said, without offering to take it or look at him -- and,
after a miserable pause, he left the study. But before he had reached
the front door he heard a swish and swirl of drapery behind him, and
felt her light hand on his arm
she said, clinging to him
he said, as he held her close to his heart
and kissed her pathetically drawn mouth and flushed cheeks
entreated Sylvia, at
the end of her altruism
he replied
These were brave words -- but, as they both felt, the situation had little
enough to warrant them, and, after one last long embrace, they parted,
and he was no sooner on the steps than he felt himself caught up as
before and borne through the air with breathless speed, till he was set
down, he could not have well said how, in a chair in his own
sitting-room at Vincent Square
he said, looking at the Jinnee, who was standing opposite with a
smile of intolerable complacency
said Fakrash
interrupted Horace
he went on,
with a strong effort to keep himself in hand
answered
the Jinnee
said the Jinnee
said Horace
said Horace, blankly
recited the Jinnee, with enthusiasm
said Horace, by no means impressed by this
catalogue of charms
continued Fakrash, as though
he had not been interrupted
said Horace
said the Jinnee, in half-scornful rebuke
said Horace
said Fakrash
said Horace
said the Jinnee
said Horace
answered the Jinnee,
simply
said Horace
said Horace
said the
Jinnee
said
Horace, who had a strong conviction that anything in which the Jinnee
was concerned would be bungled somehow
He was not without hopes that Fakrash might act on this suggestion, and
that so he would be relieved of him in the simplest and most
satisfactory way; but any such hopes were as usual doomed to
disappointment
said the Jinnee
said Horace, feeling that this line of defence must be
abandoned
admitted Horace
said Fakrash
said Ventimore
he continued, with a sudden dryness in his
throat
he broke off, as he observed the
Jinnee's eyes beginning to film over in the disagreeable manner
characteristic of certain birds
said Fakrash, unskinning his eyes for a second
stammered Horace, inconsequently enough
said the
Jinnee, resenting this imputation in quite a human way
explained Horace
remarked the Jinnee
said Horace
said
Fakrash, to whom this was evidently a new point of view
repeated Horace
inquired Fakrash, falling into the
trap more readily than Horace had ventured to hope
said Fakrash, thoughtfully
said Horace
To his surprise and gratification the Jinnee took this seriously
he said
he added
said Horace, brusquely
But Fakrash was already gone. In spite of all he had gone through and
the unknown difficulties before him, Ventimore was seized with what
Uncle Remus calls
at the thought of the
probable replies that the Jinnee would meet with in the course of his
inquiries
he thought
Arabian Nights
And after dinner he went to his shelves and took down Lane's
three-volume edition of
which he set himself to
study with a new interest. It was long since he had looked into these
wondrous tales, old beyond all human calculation, and fresher, even now,
than the most modern of successful romances. After all, he was tempted
to think, they might possess quite as much historical value as many
works with graver pretentions to accuracy.

He found a full account of the combat with the Efreet in
in the first volume, and was unpleasantly
surprised to discover that the Efreet's name was actually given as
evidently the same
person to whom Fakrash had referred as his bitterest foe. He was
described as
and had, it seemed, not only carried
off the daughter of the Lord of the Ebony Island on her wedding night,
but, on discovering her in the society of the Royal Mendicant, had
revenged himself by striking off her hands, her feet, and her head, and
transforming his human rival into an ape
he reflected ruefully, at this point
He read on till he reached the memorable encounter between the King's
daughter and Jarjarees, who presented himself
which was calculated to unnerve the stoutest novice.
The Efreet began by transforming himself from a lion to a scorpion, upon
which the Princess became a serpent; then he changed to an eagle, and
she to a vulture; he to a black cat, and she to a cock; he to a fish,
and she to a larger fish still
Ventimore told himself
But, after reading a few more lines, he cheered up. For the
Efreet finished as a flame, and the Princess as a
continued the narrator
said Horace to himself
But, as he saw on reflection, it was not so very odd, after all, as the
incident had probably happened after the Jinnee had been consigned to
his brass bottle, where intelligence of any kind would be most unlikely
to reach him.

He worked steadily through the whole of the second volume and part of
the third; but, although he picked up a certain amount of information
upon Oriental habits and modes of thought and speech which might come in
useful later, it was not until he arrived at the 24th Chapter of the
third volume that his interest really revived.

For the 24th Chapter contained
and it was only natural that he should be anxious to
know all that there was to know concerning the antecedents of one who
might be his _fiancee_ before long. He read eagerly.

Bedeea, it appeared, was the lovely daughter of Shahyal, one of the
Kings of the Believing Jann; her father -- not Fakrash himself, as the
Jinnee had incorrectly represented -- had offered her in marriage to no
less a personage than King Solomon himself, who, however, had preferred
the Queen of Sheba. Seyf, the son of the King of Egypt, afterwards fell
desperately in love with Bedeea, but she and her grandmother both
declared that between mankind and the Jann there could be no agreement
commented Horace
His heart grew lighter still as he came to the end, for he learnt that,
after many adventures which need not be mentioned here, the devoted Seyf
did actually succeed in gaining the proud Bedeea as his wife
he thought
To his relief, however, the conclusion ran thus
he reasoned
So, with renewed hope and in vastly improved spirits, he went to bed and
was soon sound asleep
It was rather late the next morning when Ventimore opened his eyes, to
discover the Jinnee standing by the foot of his bed
he said sleepily
said Fakrash, guardedly
said Horace
said
the Jinnee
said Fakrash
said Horace
answered the Jinnee, with such childlike
confidence, that Horace felt almost ashamed of so easy a victory
and with
this he flung on the bed the magnificent raiment which Ventimore had
last worn on the night of his disastrous entertainment
said Horace, sitting up in bed
said Fakrash
It seemed to Horace that it was as well to humour him, and he got up
accordingly, washed and shaved, and, putting on his dazzling robe of
cloth-of-gold thickly sewn with gems, he joined Fakrash -- who, by the
way, was similarly, if less gorgeously, arrayed -- in the sitting-room, in
a state of some mystification
commanded the Jinnee
And
Horace, after hastily disposing of a cold poached egg and a cup of
coffee, happened to go to the windows
he cried
He might well ask. On the opposite side of the road, by the railings of
the square, a large crowd had collected, all staring at the house in
eager expectation. As they caught sight of him they raised a cheer,
which caused him to retreat in confusion, but not before he had seen a
great golden chariot with six magnificent coal-black horses, and a suite
of swarthy attendants in barbaric liveries, standing by the pavement
below
he asked
said the Jinnee
said Horace
declared Fakrash
said Horace, irritably
replied Fakrash
And so, amidst the shouts of the spectators, Ventimore climbed up into
the strange-looking vehicle, while the Jinnee took his seat by his side.
Horace had a parting glimpse of Mr. and Mrs. Rapkin's respective noses
flattened against the basement window, and then two dusky slaves mounted
to a seat at the back of the chariot, and the horses started off at a
stately trot in the direction of Rochester Row
he said
said the
Jinnee.

Horace said no more, though he could not but think that this parade
would be thrown away.

But as they turned into Victoria Street and seemed to be heading
straight for the Abbey, a horrible thought occurred to him. After all,
his only authority for the marriage and decease of Bedeea was the
which was not unimpeachable evidence. What if she were
alive and waiting for the arrival of the bridegroom? No one but Fakrash
would have conceived such an idea as marrying him to a Jinneeyeh in
Westminster Abbey; but he was capable of any extravagance, and there
were apparently no limits to his power
he said hoarsely
said the Jinnee
As he spoke, the chariot left the Abbey on the right and turned down the
Embankment. The relief was so intense that Horace's spirits rose
irrepressibly. It was absurd to suppose that even Fakrash could have
arranged the ceremony in so short a time. He was merely being taken for
a drive, and fortunately his best friends could not recognise him in his
Oriental disguise. And it was a glorious morning, with a touch of frost
in the air and a sky of streaky turquoise and pale golden clouds; the
broad river glittered in the sunshine; the pavements were lined with
admiring crowds, and the carriage rolled on amidst frantic enthusiasm,
like some triumphal car
said Horace
inquired Fakrash
said Horace
said Horace, rather
lazily
He
was vainly trying to recollect whether such matters as sky-signs,
telephones, and telegraphs in the City were within the Lord Mayor's
jurisdiction or the County Council's.

Fakrash remained silent just as they were driving underneath Charing
Cross Railway Bridge, when he started perceptibly at the thunder of the
trains overhead and the piercing whistles of the engines
he
said, clutching Horace by the arm
said Horace
said the Jinnee
said Horace, anxious to let the Jinnee see that he had not the
monopoly of miracles
Considering what a very large majority of civilised persons would be as
powerless to construct the most elementary machine as to create the
humblest kind of horse, it is not a little odd how complacently we
credit ourselves with all the latest achievements of our generation.
Most of us accept the amazement of the simple-minded barbarian on his
first introduction to modern inventions as a gratifying personal
tribute: we feel a certain superiority, even if we magnanimously refrain
from boastfulness. And yet our own particular share in these discoveries
is limited to making use of them under expert guidance, which any
barbarian, after overcoming his first terror, is quite as competent to
do as we are.

It is a harmless vanity enough, and especially pardonable in Ventimore's
case, when it was so desirable to correct any tendency to "uppishness"
on the part of the Jinnee
inquired
Fakrash, on whom Ventimore's explanation had evidently produced some
impression
said Horace
The Jinnee seemed engrossed in his own thoughts, for he said no more
just then.

They were now nearing St. Paul's Cathedral, and Horace's first suspicion
returned with double force
he said
said the Jinnee, enigmatically, and indeed it proved to be
another false alarm, for they turned down Cannon Street and towards the
Mansion House
asked Ventimore. For the throng
was denser than ever; the people surged and swayed in serried ranks
behind the City police, and gazed with a wonder and awe that for once
seemed to have entirely silenced the Cockney instinct of _persiflage_
answered Fakrash
said Horace
said the Jinnee
Horace glanced up at the hastily improvised decorations; on one large
strip of bunting which spanned the street he read
he thought; and
then another legend caught his eye
And an
enthusiastic householder next door had burst into poetry and displayed
the couplet
he exclaimed
It struck him that the Jinnee was slightly embarrassed
he replied
said the Jinnee, but he did not
attempt to meet Horace's eye
said Horace, in a white rage
By this time the chariot had crossed Cheapside and was entering King
Street
urged Horace
replied the Jinnee, in some confusion
As he spoke they drove through some temporary wooden gates into the
courtyard, where the Honourable Artillery Company presented arms to
them, and the carriage drew up before a large marquee decorated with
shields and clustered banners
said Horace, with suppressed fury, as he alighted
said the Jinnee, as he accompanied his _protege_
into the marquee, which was brilliant with pretty women in smart frocks,
officers in scarlet tunics and plumed hats, and servants in State
liveries.

Their entrance was greeted by a politely-subdued buzz of applause and
admiration, and an official, who introduced himself as the Prime Warden
of the Candlestick-makers' Company, advanced to meet them
he said
Horace followed him mechanically
he thought
As they came into the noble Library of the Guildhall a fine string band
struck up, and Horace, with the Jinnee in his rear, made his way through
a lane of distinguished spectators towards a dais, on the steps of
which, in his gold-trimmed robes and black-feather hat, stood the Lord
Mayor, with his sword and mace-bearers on either hand, and behind him a
row of beaming sheriffs.

A truly stately and imposing figure did the Chief Magistrate for that
particular year present: tall, dignified, with a lofty forehead whose
polished temples reflected the light, an aquiline nose, and piercing
black eyes under heavy white eyebrows, a frosty pink in his wrinkled
cheeks, and a flowing silver beard with a touch of gold still lingering
under the lower lip: he seemed, as he stood there, a worthy
representative of the greatest and richest city in the world.

Horace approached the steps with an unpleasant sensation of weakness at
the knees, and no sort of idea what he was expected to do or say when he
arrived.

And, in his perplexity, he turned for support and guidance to his
self-constituted mentor -- only to discover that the Jinnee, whose
short-sightedness and ignorance had planted him in this present false
position, had mysteriously and perfidiously disappeared, and left him to
grapple with the situation single-handed
Fortunately for Ventimore, the momentary dismay he had felt on
finding himself deserted by his unfathomable Jinnee at the very
outset of the ceremony passed unnoticed, as the Prime Warden of the
Candlestick-makers' Company immediately came to his rescue by briefly
introducing him to the Lord Mayor, who, with dignified courtesy, had
descended to the lowest step of the dais to receive him
said the Chief Magistrate, cordially, as he pressed
Horace's hand
said Horace, with absolute sincerity
replied the Lord Mayor, in a paternally rallying tone
The Sheriffs appeared highly delighted. Horace shook hands with both of
them; indeed, in the flurry of the moment he very nearly offered to do
so with the Sword and Mace bearers as well, but their hands were, as it
happened, otherwise engaged
said the Lord Mayor
said Horace, with a sinking
heart -- for he had begun to hope that the worst was over
said his host
Horace was not hungry, but it occurred to him that he might get through
the ceremony with more credit after a glass of champagne; so he accepted
the invitation, and was conducted to an extemporised buffet at one end
of the Library, where he fortified himself for the impending ordeal with
a _caviare_ sandwich and a bumper of the driest champagne in the
Corporation cellars
said the Lord Mayor, as he took an anchovy
on toast
Horace agreed, remembering a link with a far more ancient past with
which he devoutly wished he had refrained from tinkering
the Lord Mayor continued, with an odd
blend of pride and apology
Horace, feeling absolutely idiotic, murmured that he felt sure it would
do that
said Horace, guiltily, and not a little concerned on the
official's account
said the Lord Mayor
he added, as he finished a _pate de foie gras_ sandwich
said Horace, with a sudden consciousness of his
incongruously Oriental attire
said the Lord Mayor
The band struck up the March of the Priests from _Athalie_, and Horace,
his head in a whirl, walked with his host, followed by the City Lands
Committee, the Sheriffs, and other dignitaries, through the Art Gallery
and into the Great Hall, where their entrance was heralded by a flourish
of trumpets.

The Hall was crowded, and Ventimore found himself the object of a
popular demonstration which would have filled him with joy and pride if
he could only have felt that he had done anything whatever to justify
it, for it was ridiculous to suppose that he had rendered himself a
public benefactor by restoring a convicted Jinnee to freedom and society
generally.

His only consolation was that the English are a race not given to
effusiveness without very good reason, and that before the ceremony was
over he would be enabled to gather what were the particular services
which had excited such unbounded enthusiasm.

Meanwhile he stood there on the crimson-draped and flower-bedecked dais,
bowing repeatedly, and trusting that he did not look so forlornly
foolish as he felt. A long shaft of sunlight struck down between the
Gothic rafters, and dappled the brown stone walls with patches of gold;
the electric lights in the big hooped chandeliers showed pale and feeble
against the subdued glow of the stained glass; the air was heavy with
the scent of flowers and essences. Then there was a rustle of
expectation in the audience, and a pause, in which it seemed to Horace
that everybody on the dais was almost as nervous and at a loss what to
do next as he was himself. He wished with all his soul that they would
hurry the ceremony through, anyhow, and let him go.

At length the proceedings began by a sort of solemn affectation of
having merely met there for the ordinary business of the day, which to
Horace just then seemed childish in the extreme; it was resolved that
which brought them
to item 5.

Item 5 was a resolution, read by the Town Clerk, that
which last Horace was not aware of being, but
supposed vaguely that it had been somehow managed while he was at the
buffet in the Library
the resolution
ran, and Horace listened with all his ears
It was most unfortunate -- but at this precise point the
official was seized with an attack of coughing, in which all was lost
but the conclusion of the sentence
Then the six compurgators came forward and vouched for Ventimore's
fitness to receive the freedom. He had painful doubts whether they
altogether understood what a responsibility they were undertaking -- but
it was too late to warn them and he could only trust that they knew more
of their business than he did.

After this the City Chamberlain read him an address, to which Horace
listened in resigned bewilderment. The Chamberlain referred to the
unanimity and enthusiasm with which the resolution had been carried, and
said that it was his pleasing and honourable duty, as the mouthpiece of
that ancient City, to address what he described with some inadequacy as
"a few words" to one by adding whose name to their roll of freemen the
Corporation honoured rather themselves than the recipient of their
homage.

It was flattering, but to Horace's ear the phrases sounded excessive,
almost fulsome -- though, of course, that depended very much on what he
had done, which he had still to ascertain. The orator proceeded to read
him the
a recital which
made Horace shiver with apprehension. For what names they were! What
glorious deeds they had performed! How was it possible that he -- plain
Horace Ventimore, a struggling architect who had missed his one great
chance -- could have achieved (especially without even being aware of it)
anything that would not seem ludicrously insignificant by comparison?

He had a morbid fancy that the marble goddesses, or whoever they were,
at the base of Nelson's monument opposite, were regarding him with stony
disdain and indignation; that the statue of Wellington knew him for an
arrant impostor, and averted his head with cold contempt; and that the
effigy of Lord Mayor Beckford on the right of the dais would come to
life and denounce him in another moment
he suddenly heard the
City Chamberlain resuming
Horace was greatly relieved to hear it, for it struck him as a most
sensible and, in his own particular case, essential formality
proceeded the speaker
At this
he was interrupted by deafening and long-continued applause, at the end
of which he continued
As he shook hands he presented Horace with a copy of the Oath of
Allegiance, intimating that he was to read it aloud. Naturally,
Ventimore had not the least objection to swear to be good and true to
our Sovereign Lady Queen Victoria, or to be obedient to the Lord Mayor,
and warn him of any conspiracies against the Queen's peace which might
chance to come under his observation; so he took the oath cheerfully
enough, and hoped that this was really the end of the ceremony.

However, to his great chagrin and apprehension, the Lord Mayor rose with
the evident intention of making a speech. He said that the conclusion of
the City to bestow the highest honour in their gift upon Mr. Horace
Ventimore had been -- here he hesitated -- somewhat hastily arrived at.
Personally, he would have liked a longer time to prepare, to make the
display less inadequate to, and worthier of, this exceptional occasion.
He thought that was the general feeling. (It evidently was, judging from
the loud and unanimous cheering). However, for reasons which -- for
reasons with which they were as well acquainted as himself, the notice
had been short. The Corporation had yielded (as they always did, as it
would always be their pride and pleasure to yield) to popular pressure
which was practically irresistible, and had done the best they could in
the limited -- he might almost say the unprecedentedly limited -- period
allowed them. The proudest leaf in Mr. Ventimore's chaplet of laurels
to-day was, he would venture to assert, the sight of the extraordinary
enthusiasm and assemblage, not only in that noble hall, but in the
thoroughfares of this mighty Metropolis. Under the circumstances, this
was a marvellous tribute to the admiration and affection which Mr.
Ventimore had succeeded in inspiring in the great heart of the people,
rich and poor, high and low. He would not detain his hearers any longer;
all that remained for him to do was to ask Mr. Ventimore's acceptance of
a golden casket containing the roll of freedom, and he felt sure that
their distinguished guest, before proceeding to inscribe his name on the
register, would oblige them all by some account from his own lips of -- of
the events in which he had figured so prominently and so creditably.

Horace received the casket mechanically; there was a universal cry of
from the audience, to which he replied by shaking his head in
helpless deprecation -- but in vain; he found himself irresistibly pressed
towards the rail in front of the dais, and the roar of applause which
greeted him saved him from all necessity of attempting to speak for
nearly two minutes.

During that interval he had time to clear his brain and think what he
had better do or say in his present unenviable dilemma. For some time
past a suspicion had been growing in his mind, until it had now almost
swollen into certainty. He felt that, before he compromised himself, or
allowed his too generous entertainers to compromise themselves
irretrievably, it was absolutely necessary to ascertain his real
position, and, to do that, he must make some sort of speech. With this
resolve, all his nervousness and embarrassment and indecision melted
away; he faced the assembly coolly and gallantly, convinced that his
best alternative now lay in perfect candour
he began, in a clear
voice which penetrated to the farthest gallery and commanded instant
attention
There was a general outcry of
at this, and a fervid murmur of
protest
said Horace
Again there were murmurs, this time with a certain under-current of
irritation; and he could hear the Lord Mayor behind him remarking to the
City Chamberlain that this was not at all the kind of speech for the
occasion
said Horace
At this there was a
fresh outburst of applause
said Horace, calmly
There was a dead silence, in which every one looked at his or her
neighbour and smiled feebly
continued Horace
The Lord Mayor rose
he announced with
dignity
persisted Horace
There was a breathless hush upon this; the silence grew so intense that
to borrow a slightly involved metaphor from a distinguished friend of
the writer's, you might have picked up a pin in it! Horace leaned
sideways against the rail in an easy attitude, so as to face the Lord
Mayor, as well as a portion of his audience
he said
The reporters' table was instantly in a stir of anger, and many of the
guests expressed some dissatisfaction
said the Lord
Mayor, rising, flushed with annoyance
said Horace, when the chorus of approval had subsided
An uproar followed here, under cover of which the Lord Mayor contrived
to give orders to have the doors fastened till further directions
said Horace, as soon as he could obtain a hearing again
Upon this a fresh uproar arose, and prevented him from continuing for
some time
he pleaded
They calmed down at this appeal, and he was able to proceed
he said
For some inexplicable reason his last words roused the audience to
absolute frenzy; they would not hear anything about the brass bottle.
Every time he attempted to mention it they howled him down, they hissed,
they groaned, they shook their fists; the din was positively deafening.

Nor was the demonstration confined to the male portion of the assembly.
One lady, indeed, who is a prominent leader in society, but whose name
shall not be divulged here, was so carried away by her feelings as to
hurl a heavy cut-glass bottle of smelling-salts at Horace's offending
head. Fortunately for him, it missed him and only caught one of the
officials (Horace was not in a mood to notice details very accurately,
but he had a notion that it was the City Remembrancer) somewhere about
the region of the watch-pocket
Ventimore shouted
He got no farther -- for, as the words left his lips, he felt himself
seized by the collar of his robe and lifted off his feet by an agency he
was powerless to resist.

Up and up he was carried, past the great chandeliers, between the carved
and gilded rafters, pursued by a universal shriek of dismay and horror.
Down below he could see the throng of pale, upturned faces, and hear the
wild screams and laughter of several ladies of great distinction in
violent hysterics. And the next moment he was in the glass lantern, and
the latticed panes gave way like tissue paper as he broke through into
the open air, causing the pigeons on the roof to whirr up in a flutter
of alarm.

Of course, he knew that it was the Jinnee who was abducting him in this
sensational manner, and he was rather relieved than alarmed by Fakrash's
summary proceeding, for he seemed, for once, to have hit upon the best
way out of a situation that was rapidly becoming impossible
Once outside in the open air, the Jinnee "towered" like a pheasant shot
through the breast, and Horace closed his eyes with a combined
swing-switchback-and-Channel-passage sensation during a flight which
apparently continued for hours, although in reality it probably did not
occupy more than a very few seconds. His uneasiness was still further
increased by his inability to guess where he was being taken to -- for he
felt instinctively that they were not travelling in the direction of
home.

At last he felt himself set down on some hard, firm surface, and
ventured to open his eyes once more. When he realised where he actually
was, his knees gave way under him, and he was seized with a sudden
giddiness that very nearly made him lose his balance. For he found
himself standing on a sort of narrow ledge or cornice immediately under
the ball at the top of St. Paul's.

Many feet beneath him spread the dull, leaden summit of the dome, its
raised ridges stretching, like huge serpents over the curve, beyond
which was a glimpse of the green roof of the nave and the two west
towers, with their grey columns and urn-topped buttresses and gilded
pineapples, which shone ruddily in the sun.

He had an impression of Ludgate Hill and Fleet Street as a deep, winding
ravine, steeped in partial shadow; of long sierras of roofs and
chimney-pots, showing their sharp outlines above mouse-coloured
smoke-wreaths; of the broad, pearl-tinted river, with oily ripples and a
golden glitter where the sunlight touched it; of the gleaming slope of
mud under the wharves and warehouses on the Surrey side; of barges and
steamers moored in black clusters; of a small tug fussing noisily down
the river, leaving a broadening arrow-head in its wake.

Cautiously he moved round towards the east, where the houses formed a
blurred mosaic of cream, slate, indigo, and dull reds and browns, above
which slender rose-flushed spires and towers pierced the haze, stained
in countless places by pillars of black, grey, and amber smoke, and
lightened by plumes and jets of silvery steam, till all blended by
imperceptible gradations into a sky of tenderest gold slashed with
translucent blue.

It was a magnificent view, and none the less so because the
indistinctness of all beyond a limited radius made the huge City seem
not only mystical, but absolutely boundless in extent. But although
Ventimore was distinctly conscious of all this, he was scarcely in a
state to appreciate its grandeur just then. He was much too concerned
with wondering why Fakrash had chosen to plant him up there in so
insecure a position, and how he was ever to be rescued from it, since
the Jinnee had apparently disappeared.

He was not far off, however, for presently Horace saw him stalk round
the narrow cornice with an air of being perfectly at home on it
said Ventimore
replied the
Jinnee
said Horace
Horace lowered himself carefully to a sitting position, so that his legs
dangled in space, and Fakrash took a seat by his side
he began, in an aggrieved tone
retorted Horace
said Horace
answered the Jinnee
said Ventimore
he cried, in his
indignation
said Fakrash,
sullenly
said Horace
declared Fakrash
said Horace
said Fakrash
said Horace
explained Horace
cried the Jinnee
said Horace
He pointed to the steep
roof of the Guildhall, with its dormers and fretted pinnacles, and the
slender lantern through which he had so lately made his inglorious exit
observed the Jinnee
said Horace
Fakrash shifted his seat on the cornice
he said
Horace perceived that the Jinnee was not altogether at ease, and pushed
his advantage accordingly
he said
continued Horace, piling it on as he proceeded
said Fakrash, with a
gleam of unwonted shrewdness
conceded Horace
said the Jinnee, in troubled accents
said Horace
said Horace
said Horace
said Fakrash, springing to his feet, and turning his
face towards Cheapside. Horace shuffled himself along the ledge in a
seated position after the Jinnee, and, looking down between his feet,
could just see the tops of the thin and rusty trees in the churchyard,
the black and serried swarms of foreshortened people in the street, and
the scarlet-rimmed mouths of chimney-pots on the tiled roofs below
said the Jinnee
And,
stretching forth his right hand towards the east, he muttered some kind
of command or invocation.

Horace almost fell off the cornice with apprehension of what might
follow. Would it be a thunderbolt, a plague, some frightful convulsion
of Nature? He felt sure that Fakrash would hesitate at no means, however
violent, of burying all traces of his blunder in oblivion, and very
little hope that, whatever he did, it would prove anything but some
worse indiscretion than his previous performances.

Happily none of these extreme measures seemed to have occurred to the
Jinnee, though what followed was strange and striking enough.

For presently, as if in obedience to the Jinnee's weird gesticulations,
a lurid belt of fog came rolling up from the direction of the Royal
Exchange, swallowing up building after building in its rapid course; one
by one the Guildhall, Bow Church, Cheapside itself, and the churchyard
disappeared, and Horace, turning his head to the left, saw the murky
tide sweeping on westward, blotting out Ludgate Hill, the Strand,
Charing Cross, and Westminster -- till at last he and Fakrash were alone
above a limitless plain of bituminous cloud, the only living beings
left, as it seemed, in a blank and silent universe
said Fakrash, and Horace, looking eastward, saw the spire
of Bow Church, rosy once more, the Guildhall standing clear and intact,
and the streets and house-tops gradually reappearing. Only the flags,
with their unrestful shiver and ripple of colour, had disappeared, and,
with them, the waiting crowds and the mounted constables. The ordinary
traffic of vans, omnibuses, and cabs was proceeding as though it had
never been interrupted -- the clank and jingle of harness chains, the
cries and whip-crackings of drivers, rose with curious distinctness
above the incessant trampling roar which is the ground-swell of the
human ocean
said Fakrash
It was not often that Horace could honestly commend any performance of
the Jinnee's, but at this he could not restrain his admiration
he said
said the Jinnee
There was a most unpleasant green glow in his eyes and a bristle in his
thin beard as he spoke, which suddenly made Horace feel uncomfortable.
He did not like the look of the Jinnee at all
he said
replied the Jinnee
And he laid a long, lean hand on
Horace's shoulder
thought Ventimore
he said aloud
said Horace
explained the Jinnee
Horace turned faint and dizzy for a moment. Then, by a strong effort of
will, he pulled himself together
he said
returned Fakrash
Ventimore could not repress a shudder. Hitherto he had never been able
to take Fakrash quite seriously, in spite of all his supernatural
powers; he had treated him with a half-kindly, half-contemptuous
tolerance, as a well-meaning, but hopelessly incompetent, old foozle.
That the Jinnee should ever become malevolent towards him had never
entered his head till now -- and yet he undoubtedly had. How was he to
cajole and disarm this formidable being? He must keep cool and act
promptly, or he would never see Sylvia again.

As he sat there on the narrow ledge, with a faint and not unpleasant
smell of hops saluting his nostrils from some distant brewery, he tried
hard to collect his thoughts, but could not. He found himself, instead,
idly watching the busy, jostling crowd below, who were all unconscious
of the impending drama so high above them. Just over the rim of the dome
he could see the opaque white top of a lamp on a shelter, where a pigmy
constable stood, directing the traffic.

Would he look up if Horace called for help? Even if he could, what help
could he render? All he could do would be to keep the crowd back and
send for a covered stretcher. No, he would _not_ dwell on these horrors;
he _must_ fix his mind on some way of circumventing Fakrash.

How did the people in "The Arabian Nights" manage? The fisherman, for
instance? He persuaded _his_ Jinnee to return to the bottle by
pretending to doubt whether he had ever really been inside it.

But Fakrash, though simple enough in some respects, was not quite such a
fool as that. Sometimes the Jinn could be mollified and induced to grant
a reprieve by being told stories, one inside the other, like a nest of
Oriental boxes. Unfortunately Fakrash did not seem in the humour for
listening to apologues, and, even if he were, Horace could not think of
or improvise any just then
he thought
Still, he
remembered that it was generally possible to draw an Arabian Efreet into
discussion: they all loved argument, and had a rough conception of
justice
he said
replied the Jinnee
said Horace, affably
retorted Fakrash, making a stride towards
him
said Horace
said Horace
It was a desperate shot -- but it took effect. The Jinnee quailed visibly
he said
Horace determined to make one last appeal to Fakrash's sense of
gratitude, since it had always seemed the dominant trait in his
character
he said
replied the Jinnee
was all Horace could find to say at this most unlooked-for answer.
His sheet anchor, in which he had trusted implicitly, had suddenly
dragged -- and he was drifting fast to destruction
inquired the
Jinnee, with grim indulgence
Horace was determined not to give in just yet; he had a very bad hand,
but he might as well play the game out and trust to luck to gain a stray
trick
he said
said the Jinnee, in an
inflexible tone; and Ventimore realised that his fate would depend upon
what he said next
said the Jinnee, impatiently.
He was standing with folded arms looking down on Horace, who was still
seated on the narrow cornice, not daring to glance below again, lest he
should lose his head altogether
said Ventimore
said the Jinnee, solemnly
For the life of him, in spite of his desperate plight, Horace could not
help laughing
he said, as soon as he
could speak
said Fakrash, furiously
reflected Ventimore
he said
said the Jinnee
said Horace
said Fakrash
said Horace, on the verge of despair
replied the Jinnee
said Horace
He was bluffing, of course, for he knew perfectly well that, even if any
extradition treaty could be put in force, the arrest of a Jinnee would
be no easy matter
inquired Fakrash
said
Horace
said the Jinnee
cried Horace, hardly daring to believe his
ears
continued the
Jinnee
said Horace, sympathetically
said the Jinnee
cried Horace
said the Jinnee
Once more Horace gave himself up for lost; which was doubly bitter, just
when he had begun to consider that the danger was past. But even then,
he was determined to fight to the last
he said
cried the Jinnee
said Horace
If he can, he thought
began the Jinnee, with his usual confidence
he corrected himself
said Ventimore
exclaimed the Jinnee
said Horace, with all the urbanity he could command
said Horace, at a venture
said the Jinnee, impatiently
persisted Horace
said Fakrash, frowning
said the Jinnee, undecidedly
said Horace, with well-assumed indifference
said the Jinnee, hastily, without suspecting
that Ventimore had no serious intention of carrying out his threat
said Horace
replied the Jinnee
said Horace, pausing on the brink
of the ledge
replied Fakrash
Even then Horace had his misgivings; but as there was no other way of
getting off that cornice, he decided to take the risk. And, as it
proved, he acted judiciously, for the Jinnee flew to Vincent Square with
honourable precision, and dropped him neatly into the armchair in which
he had little hoped ever to find himself again
said Fakrash
Horace was about to assure him once more that no one could be more
anxious than himself to see him safely back in his bottle, when he
recollected that it was impolitic to appear too eager
he said
thundered the Jinnee
said Horace quietly
said the Jinnee, sullenly
He pointed his grey forefinger at Ventimore, whose turban
and jewelled robes instantly shrivelled into cobwebs and tinder, and
fluttered to the carpet in filmy shreds, leaving him in nothing but his
underclothing
said Horace, blandly
He slipped on some clothes hurriedly and re-entered the sitting-room
he said
said the Jinnee
cried Fakrash, peevishly
Fakrash admitted
said Fakrash
said Horace
said the Jinnee, suiting the action to
his words
his voice continued
said Mrs. Rapkin, as she entered
said Horace, impatiently
said Horace
said Horace
said the Jinnee, after she
had gone, as he reappeared to view
said Horace
And he prepared to go
cried Fakrash
said Horace, angrily
said the Jinnee
said Horace, feeling that this
would allow him ample margin, and thankful that it did not occur to
Fakrash to go in person.

He put on his hat, and hurried off in the gathering dusk. He had some
little trouble in finding Mr. Dilger's establishment, which was a dirty,
dusty little place in a back street, with a few deplorable old chairs,
rickety washstands, and rusty fenders outside, and the interior almost
completely blocked by piles of dingy mattresses, empty clock-cases,
tarnished and cracked mirrors, broken lamps, damaged picture-frames, and
everything else which one would imagine could have no possible value
for any human being. But in all this collection of worthless curios the
brass bottle was nowhere to be seen.

Ventimore went in and found a youth of about thirteen straining his eyes
in the fading light over one of those halfpenny humorous journals which,
thanks to an improved system of education, at least eighty per cent. of
our juvenile population are now enabled to appreciate
he began
said the youth
said the boy, and buried himself once more in his copy
of
said Horace, and began to poke about with a
sinking heart, and a horrid dread that he might have come to the wrong
shop, for the big pot-bellied vessel certainly did not seem to be there.
At last, to his unspeakable joy, he discovered it under a piece of
tattered drugget
he said,
feeling in his pocket and discovering that he had exactly a sovereign
said the boy
said Horace, who did not wish to appear
too keen at first
was the reply
insisted Horace
replied the candid youth
said Horace
said the boy,
with sudden suspicion
said Horace
said Horace
and the provoking youth returned to
his
said Horace
said Horace
Horace had a mad impulse to snatch up the precious bottle then and there
and make off with it, and might have yielded to the temptation, with
disastrous consequences, had not an elderly man entered the shop at that
moment. He was bent, and wore rather more fluff and flue upon his person
than most well-dressed people would consider necessary, but he came in
with a certain air of authority, nevertheless
piped the youth
said Mr. Dilger, cocking a watery but sharp old
eye at Horace
said Horace
he declared impressively, if rather
ambiguously
said Horace
said Mr. Dilger, without
exhibiting the least confusion
said Horace, completely losing his temper
said Mr. Dilger, affectionately
said Horace
said the worthy man
said Horace, and walked out of the shop; rather to
bring Mr. Dilger to terms than because he really meant to abandon the
bottle, for he dared not go back without it, and he had nothing about
him just then on which he could raise the extra ten shillings, supposing
the dealer refused to trust him for the balance -- and the time was
growing dangerously short.

Fortunately the well-worn ruse succeeded, for Mr. Dilger ran out after
him and laid an unwashed claw upon his coat-sleeve
he said
Horace handed over the coin, which left him with a few pence
he said suddenly
said Horace
he
said, as he recollected that the seal was in Fakrash's possession
It was almost dark when he got back to his rooms, where he found the
Jinnee shaking with mingled rage and apprehension
he cried
returned
Ventimore
shrieked the Jinnee
said Horace
howled Fakrash, shaking out his flowing
draperies
retorted Horace
declared the Jinnee
said Horace, feeling extremely uneasy, for it was
evidently a much simpler thing to let a Jinnee out of a bottle than to
get him in again
said Fakrash, and as he spoke his outer robes
modernised into a frock-coat
said Horace
said the Jinnee, looking relieved but not a little foolish
as he extracted the object
said
Horace
cried Fakrash, re-assuming
his green robe and turban
said Horace
objected the Jinnee
said Horace
Fakrash swept his right hand round in a half circle
he said
said Horace
said the Jinnee, trembling with impatience
Horace had triumphed. It had been a long and desperate duel with this
singular being, who was at once so crafty and so childlike, so credulous
and so suspicious, so benevolent and so malign. Again and again he had
despaired of victory, but he had won at last. In another minute or so
this formidable Jinnee would be safely bottled once more, and powerless
to intermeddle and plague him for the future.

And yet, in the very moment of triumph, quixotic as such scruples may
seem to some, Ventimore's conscience smote him. He could not help a
certain pity for the old creature, who was shaking there convulsively
prepared to re-enter his bottle-prison rather than incur a wholly
imaginary doom. Fakrash had aged visibly within the last hour; now he
looked even older than his three thousand and odd years. True, he had
led Horace a fearful life of late, but at first, at least, his
intentions had been good. His gratitude, if mistaken in its form, was
the sign of a generous disposition. Not every Jinnee, surely, would
have endeavoured to press untold millions and honours and dignities of
all kinds upon him, in return for a service which most mortals would
have considered amply repaid by a brace of birds and an invitation to an
evening party.

And how was Horace treating _him_? He was taking what, in his heart, he
felt to be a rather mean advantage of the Jinnee's ignorance of modern
life to cajole him into returning to his captivity. Why not suffer him
to live out the brief remainder of his years (for he could hardly last
more than another century or two at most) in freedom? Fakrash had learnt
his lesson: he was not likely to interfere again in human affairs; he
might find his way back to the Palace of the Mountain of the Clouds and
end his days there, in peaceful enjoyment of the society of such of the
Jinn as might still survive unbottled.

So, obeying -- against his own interests -- some kindlier impulse, Horace
made an effort to deter the Jinnee, who was already hovering in air
above the neck of the bottle in a swirl of revolving draperies, like
some blundering old bee vainly endeavouring to hit the opening into his
hive
he cried
But the Jinnee, who had now swelled to gigantic proportions, and whose
form and features were only dimly recognisable through the wreaths of
black vapour in which he was involved, answered him from his pillar of
smoke in a terrible voice
he cried
persisted Horace
The whirling and roaring column,
in shape like an inverted cone, was being fast sucked down into the
vessel, till only a semi-materialised but highly infuriated head was
left above the neck of the bottle
it cried
And, with these words, the head sank into the bottle with a loud clap
resembling thunder.

Horace hesitated no longer. The Jinnee himself had absolved him from all
further scruples; to imperil Sylvia and her parents -- not to mention all
London -- out of consideration for one obstinate and obnoxious old demon,
would clearly be carrying sentiment much too far.

Accordingly, he made a rush for the jar and slipped the metal cover over
the mouth of the neck, which was so hot that it blistered his fingers,
and, seizing the poker, he hammered down the secret catch until the lid
fitted as closely as Suleyman himself could have required.

Then he stuffed the bottle into a kit-bag, adding a few coals to give it
extra weight, and toiled off with it to the nearest steamboat pier,
where he spent his remaining pence in purchasing a ticket to the Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next day the following paragraph appeared in one of the evening papers,
which probably had more space than usual at its disposal
On a certain evening in May Horace Ventimore dined in a private room at
the Savoy, as one of the guests of Mr. Samuel Wackerbath. In fact, he
might almost be said to be the guest of the evening, as the dinner was
given by way of celebrating the completion of the host's new country
house at Lipsfield, of which Horace was the architect, and also to
congratulate him on his approaching marriage (which was fixed to take
place early in the following month) with Miss Sylvia Futvoye
said Mr. Wackerbath, looking round
on his numerous sons and daughters, as he greeted Horace in the
reception-room
he added, with a roll of reflected importance
in his voice
As the year before last was the year in which Horace had paid his
involuntary visit to the Guildhall, he was able to reply with truth that
he _did_ remember Sir Lawrence.

He was not altogether comfortable when the ex-Lord-Mayor was announced,
for it would have been more than awkward if Sir Lawrence had chanced to
remember _him_. Fortunately, he gave no sign that he did so, though his
manner was graciousness itself
he
said pressing Horace's hand almost as warmly as he had done that October
day of the dais
declared Mr. Wackerbath, as Horace modestly
disclaimed Sir Lawrence's compliment
said Horace, wondering how far these reminiscences
would go
continued Mr. Wackerbath, patting Horace on the shoulder
Ventimore assented, though it struck him that a happier expression
might, and would, have been employed if his client had remembered one
particular interview in which he had not figured to advantage.

They went in to dinner, in a room sumptuously decorated with panels of
grey-green brocade and softly shaded lamps, and screens of gilded
leather; through the centre of the table rose a tall palm, its boughs
hung with small electric globes like magic fruits
said the Professor, who was in high good humour
said his wife
Ventimore heard her remark to Sir Lawrence
said
Sir Lawrence, in his most florid manner
he
added, raising his voice to address Sylvia
she said
she added, in a lower voice, turning to Horace
he asked, with a start
she said
There was only tender mockery in her eyes; absolutely no recollection of
the sinister purchase he had made at that sale, or how nearly it had
separated them for ever. So he hastened to admit that perhaps he had
_not_ been particularly successful at the auction in question.

Sir Lawrence next addressed him across the table
he said
said Horace, very much on his guard
said the ex-Lord Mayor
said Ventimore
put in Lady Pountney, who had only caught a word or two
of her husband's remarks
the Professor put in
said Lady Pountney
added his wife
said the Professor
he informed Lady Pountney, who seemed
still incredulous
Horace had to set his teeth hard for a moment, lest he should disgrace
himself by a peal of untimely mirth -- but by a strong effort of will he
managed to command his muscles
he said
said
the Professor
Horace said
pleaded one of the Miss Wackerbaths, and all
the ladies joined in the entreaty until Horace found himself under the
necessity of improvising a story, which, it must be confessed, fell
exceedingly flat.

This final ordeal past, he grew silent and thoughtful, as he sat there
by Sylvia's side, looking out through the glazed gallery outside upon
the spring foliage along the Embankment, the opaline river, and the shot
towers and buildings on the opposite bank glowing warm brown against an
evening sky of silvery blue.

Not for the first time did it seem strange, incredible almost, to him
that all these people should be so utterly without any recollection of
events which surely might have been expected to leave some trace upon
the least retentive memory -- and yet it only proved once more how
thoroughly and honourably the old Jinnee, now slumbering placidly in his
bottle deep down in unfathomable mud, opposite the very spot where they
were dining, had fulfilled his last undertaking.

Fakrash, the brass bottle, and all the fantastic and embarrassing
performances were indeed as totally forgotten as though they had never
been.

       *       *       *       *       *

And it is but too probable that even this modest and veracious account
of them will prove to have been included in the general act of
oblivion -- though the author will trust as long as possible that
Fakrash-el-Aamash may have neglected to provide for this particular
case, and that the history of the Brass Bottle may thus be permitted to
linger awhile in the memories of some at least of its readers
</text>
