<text>
BEE-HUNTING
It was in the year 1794, that an English family went out to settle in
Canada. This province had been surrendered to us by the French, who
first colonized it, more than thirty years previous to the year I have
mentioned. It must, however, be recollected, that to emigrate and settle
in Canada was, at that time, a very different affair to what it is now.
The difficulty of transport, and the dangers incurred, were much
greater, for there were no steamboats to stem the currents and the
rapids of the rivers; the Indians were still residing in Upper and many
portions of Lower Canada, and the country was infested with wild animals
of every description -- some useful, but many dangerous: moreover, the
Europeans were fewer in number, and the major portion of them were
French, who were not pleased at the country having been conquered by the
English. It is true that a great many English settlers had arrived, and
had settled upon different farms; but as the French settlers had already
possession of all the best land in Lower Canada, these new settlers were
obliged to go into or toward Upper Canada, where, although the land was
better, the distance from Quebec and Montreal, and other populous parts,
was much greater, and they were left almost wholly to their own
resources, and almost without protection. I mention all this, because
things are so very different at present: and now I shall state the cause
which induced this family to leave their home, and run the risk and
dangers which they did.

Mr. Campbell was of a good parentage, but, being the son of one of the
younger branches of the family, his father was not rich, and Mr.
Campbell was, of course, brought up to a profession. Mr. Campbell chose
that of a surgeon; and after having walked the hospitals (as it is
termed), he set up in business and in a few years was considered as a
very able man in his profession. His practice increased very fast; and
before he was thirty years of age he married.

Mr. Campbell had an only sister, who resided with him, for their father
and mother were both dead. But about five years after his own marriage,
a young gentleman paid his addresses to her; and although not rich, as
his character was unexceptionable, and his prospects good, he was
accepted. Miss Campbell changed her name to Percival, and left her
brother's house to follow her husband.

Time passed quickly; and, at the end of ten years, Mr. Campbell found
himself with a flourishing business, and at the same time with a family
to support, his wife having presented him with four boys, of whom the
youngest was but a few months old.

But, although prosperous in his own affairs, one heavy misfortune fell
upon Mr. Campbell, which was the loss of his sister, Mrs. Percival, to
whom he was most sincerely attached. Her loss was attended with
circumstances which rendered it more painful, as, previous to her
decease, the house of business in which Mr. Percival was a partner
failed; and the incessant toil and anxiety which Mr. Percival underwent
brought on a violent fever, which ended in his death. In this state of
distress, left a widow with one child of two years old -- a little
girl -- and with the expectation of being shortly again confined, Mrs.
Percival was brought to her brother's house, who, with his wife, did all
he could to soften down her grief; but she had suffered so much by the
loss of her husband, that when the period arrived, her strength was
gone, and she died in giving birth to a second daughter. Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell, of course, took charge of these two little orphan girls, and
brought them up with their own children.

Such was the state of affairs about ten or eleven years after Mr.
Campbell's marriage, when a circumstance occurred as unexpected as it
was welcome.

Mr. Campbell had returned from his round of professional visits; dinner
was over, and he was sitting at the table with his wife and elder
children (for it was the Christmas holidays, and they were all at home),
and the bell had just rung for the nurse to bring down the two little
girls and the youngest boy, when the postman rapped at the door, and the
parlor-maid brought in a letter with a large black seal. Mr. Campbell
opened it, and read as follows:--

     Sir -- We have great pleasure in making known to you, that upon the
     demise of Mr. Sholto Campbell, of Wexton Hall, Cumberland, which
     took place on the 19th ultimo, the entailed estates, in default of
     more direct issue, have fallen to you, as nearest of kin; the
     presumptive heir having perished at sea, or in the East Indies, and
     not having been heard of for twenty-five years. We beg to be the
     first to congratulate you upon your accession to real property
     amounting to &pound;14,000 per annum. No will has been found, and it has
     been ascertained that none was ever made by the late Mr. Sholto
     Campbell. We have, therefore, put seals upon the personal property,
     and shall wait your pleasure. We can only add, that if in want of
     professional advice, and not being already engaged, you may command
     the services of
                                            Your most obedient,
                                   HARVEY, PAXTON, THORPE, &amp; Co
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell, who had
perceived most unusual agitation in her husband's countenance.

Mr. Campbell made no reply, but handed the letter to his wife.

Mrs. Campbell read it, and laid it down on the table
exclaimed Mr. Campbell, joyfully, and starting up from
his chair
observed Mrs. Campbell, thoughtfully and
slowly
replied Mr. Campbell, sitting down again
said Mrs. Campbell, rising
up, and embracing him
I must not dwell too long upon this portion of my narrative. I shall
therefore observe that Mr. Campbell took possession of Wexton Hall, and
lived in a style corresponding to his increased fortune; but, at the
same time, he never let pass an opportunity of doing good, and in this
task he was ably assisted by his wife. They had not resided there three
or four years before they were considered as a blessing to all around
them -- encouraging industry, assisting the unfortunate, relieving the
indigent, building almshouses and schools, and doing all in their power
to promote the welfare and add to the happiness of those within many
miles of the Hall. At the time that Mr. Campbell took possession, the
estate had been neglected, and required large sums to be laid out upon
it, which would much increase its value.

Thus all the large income of Mr. Campbell was usefully and
advantageously employed. The change in Mr. Campbell's fortune had also
much changed the prospects of his children. Henry, the eldest, who had
been intended for his father's profession, was first sent to a private
tutor, and afterward to college. Alfred, the second boy, had chosen the
navy for his profession, and had embarked on board a fine frigate. The
other two boys, one named Percival, who was more than two years old at
the time that they took possession of the property, and the other, John,
who had been born only a few months, remained at home, receiving tuition
from a young curate, who lived near the Hall; while a governess had been
procured for Mary and Emma Percival, who were growing up very handsome
and intelligent girls.

Such was the state of affairs at the time when Mr. Campbell had been
about ten years in possession of the Wexton estate, when one day he was
called upon by Mr. Harvey, the head of the firm which had announced to
him his succession to the property.

Mr. Harvey came to inform him that a claimant had appeared, and given
notice of his intent to file a bill in Chancery to recover the estate,
being, as he asserted, the son of the person who had been considered as
the presumptive heir, and who had perished so many years back. Mr.
Harvey observed, that although he thought it his duty to make the
circumstance known to Mr. Campbell, he considered it as a matter of no
consequence, and in all probability would turn out to be a fraud got up
by some petty attorney, with a view to a compromise. He requested Mr.
Campbell not to allow the circumstance to give him any annoyance,
stating that if more was heard of it, Mr. Campbell should be immediately
informed. Satisfied with the opinion of Mr. Harvey, Mr. Campbell
dismissed the circumstance from his mind, and did not even mention it to
his wife.

But three months had not passed away before Mr. Campbell received a
letter from his solicitor, in which he informed him that the claim to
the estate was carrying on with great vigor, and he was sorry to add,
wore (to use his own term) a very ugly appearance; and that the opposite
parties would, at all events, put Mr. Campbell to a very considerable
expense. The solicitor requested Mr. Campbell's instructions, again
asserting, that although it was artfully got up, he considered that it
was a fraudulent attempt. Mr. Campbell returned an answer, in which he
authorized his solicitor to take every needful precaution, and to incur
all necessary expense. On reflection, Mr. Campbell, although much
annoyed, determined not to make Mrs. Campbell acquainted with what was
going on; it could only distress her, he thought, and he therefore
resolved for the present to leave her in ignorance
After a delay of some months, Mr. Harvey called upon Mr. Campbell, and
stated to him that the claim of the opposite party, so far from being
fraudulent as he had supposed, was so clear, that he feared the worst
results.

It appeared that the heir to the estates, who had remained between Mr.
Campbell's title, had married in India, and had subsequently, as it had
been supposed, died; but there was full and satisfactory proof that the
marriage was valid, and that the party who claimed was his son. It was
true, Mr. Harvey observed, that Mr. Campbell might delay for some time
the restoration of the property, but that eventually it must be
surrendered.

As soon as Mr. Campbell received this letter, he went to his wife and
acquainted her with all that had been going on for some months, and with
the reasons which induced him to say nothing to her until the receipt of
Mr. Harvey's letter, which he now put into her hands, requesting her
opinion on the subject. Mrs. Campbell, after having read the letter,
replied
replied Mr. Campbell
replied his wife, embracing him
Mr. Campbell sat down and wrote the letter of instructions to his
solicitor, sealed it, and sent a groom with it to the post.

As soon as the servant had closed the door of the room, Mr. Campbell
covered his face with his hands
said Mrs. Campbell, taking the hand of
her husband
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell, in a cheering tone
observed Mr. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
Two days after this conversation, a letter was received from Mr. Harvey,
informing them that he had made known Mr. Campbell's determination to
resign the property without further litigation; that the reply of the
other party was highly honorable, stating that it was not his intention
to make any claim for the back rents, and requesting that Mr. Campbell
and family would consider Wexton Hall at their disposal for three
months, to enable them to make arrangements, and dispose of their
furniture, etc.

The contents of this letter were a great relief to the mind of Mr.
Campbell, as he was now able to ascertain what his future means might
be, and was grateful for the handsome behavior of the new proprietor in
not making any claim for back rents, which would have reduced him at
once to penury. He wrote immediately to Mr. Harvey requesting him to
send in his account of legal expenses, that it might be liquidated as
soon as possible. In three days it arrived, and a letter with it, in
which Mr. Harvey acquainted him, that it was in consequence of his
having so handsomely surrendered the property as soon as the claim was
substantiated, together with the knowledge how much the estate had been
improved during the ten years in which it had been in his possession,
which induced the new proprietor to behave in so liberal a manner. This
was very gratifying to Mr. Campbell, but the legal expenses proved
enormous, amounting to many thousand pounds.

Mr. Campbell read the sum total, and threw the heap of papers down on
the table in despair
said he mournfully
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
This judicious advice was approved of by Mr. Campbell. Miss Paterson was
greatly distressed when the news was communicated to her by Mrs.
Campbell. Mary and Emma Percival felt deeply for their kind
benefactors, but thought nothing of themselves. As Mrs. Campbell had
truly observed, they had been too well brought up. As soon as they were
informed of what had happened, they both ran to Mr. Campbell's room, and
hung upon his neck, declaring they would do all they could to make him
happy, and work for him, if necessary, from morning till night.

The next day the whole household were summoned into the dining-room, and
made acquainted by Mr. Campbell with what had taken place, and the
necessity of their immediate removal. Their wages had been calculated,
and were paid them before they quitted the room, which they all did with
many expressions of regret. Miss Paterson requested leave to remain with
them as a friend for a few days longer, and as she was deservedly a
favorite, her request was acceded to
said Mr. Campbell, after all the household
had been dismissed
said Emma Percival, entering the
room
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Mr.
Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
said Emma, the tears starting in her eyes,
as she quitted the room
said the footman,
as he came in
replied Mr. Campbell.

Mr. Bates, the auctioneer, came in, and presented a letter to Mr.
Campbell, who requested him to take a chair while he read it. It was
from Mr. Douglas Campbell, the new proprietor of the estate, requesting
Mr. Bates would ascertain if Mr. Campbell was willing that the
furniture, etc., should be disposed of by valuation, and if so,
requesting Mr. Bates to put a liberal value on it, and draw upon him for
the amount
observed Mrs.
Campbell
replied Mr. Bates, who then rose and took his
leave.

As soon as the valuation was finished, Mr. Campbell was enabled to make
an estimate of what remained to them out of the property, and found that
the whole sum amounted to between seventeen and eighteen hundred pounds
It may appear strange that, after having been in possession of the
estate for ten years, and considering that he had younger children to
provide for, Mr. Campbell had not laid up a larger sum; but this can be
fully explained. As I before said, the estate was in very bad order when
Mr. Campbell came into possession, and he devoted a large portion of the
income to improving it; and, secondly, he had expended a considerable
sum in building almshouses and schools, works which he would not delay,
as he considered them as religious obligations. The consequence was,
that it was not until a year before the claim was made to the estate,
that he had commenced laying by for his younger children; and as the
estate was then worth &pound;2,000 per annum more than it was at the time
that he came into possession of it, he had resolved to put by &pound;5,000 per
annum, and had done so for twelve months. The enormous legal expenses
had, however, swallowed up this sum, and more, as we have already
stated; and thus he was left a poorer man by some hundreds than he was
when the property fell to him. The day after the valuation, the eldest
son, Henry, made his appearance; he seemed much dejected, more so than
his parents, and those who knew him, would have supposed. It was,
however, ascribed to his feeling for his father and mother, rather than
for himself.

Many were the consultations held by Mr. and Mrs. Campbell as to their
future plans; but nothing at all feasible, or likely to prove
advantageous, suggested itself to them. With only sixteen or seventeen
hundred pounds, they scarcely knew where to go, or how to act. Return to
his profession Mr. Campbell knew that he could not, with any chance of
supporting his family. His eldest son, Henry, might obtain a situation,
but he was really fit for nothing but the bar or holy orders; and how
were they to support him till he could support himself? Alfred, who was
now a master's mate, could, it is true, support himself, but it would be
with difficulty, and there was little chance of his promotion. Then
there were the two other boys, and the two girls growing up fast; in
short, a family of eight people. To put so small a sum in the funds
would be useless, as they could not live upon the interest which it
would give, and how to employ it they knew not. They canvassed the
matter over and over, but without success, and each night they laid
their heads upon the pillow more and more disheartened. They were all
ready to leave the Hall, but knew not where to direct their steps when
they left it; and thus they continued wavering for a week, until they
were embraced by their son Alfred, who had made all speed to join them,
as soon as the ship had been paid off. After the first joy of meeting
between those who had been separated so long was over, Mr. Campbell
said
said Alfred,
kissing his mother again, and then hastening out of the room
observed Mrs. Campbell
Alfred soon fell in with his brother and his cousins, Mary and Emma, and
after the huggings and kissings, as he termed them, were over, he made
inquiries into the real state of his father's affairs. After a short
conversation, Henry, who was very much depressed in his spirits, said
observed Alfred, after his
cousins had left them
replied Alfred
replied Alfred
Alfred's high spirits did certainly do much to cheer them all up; and
after tea, Mr. Campbell, who had previously consulted his wife, as soon
as the servant had quitted the room, entered on a full explanation of
the means which were left to them; and stated, that he wished in his
difficulty to put the question before the whole family, and ascertain
whether any project might come into their heads upon which they might
decide and act. Henry, who had recovered his spirits since the
assistance he had received from Alfred, was desired to speak first. He
replied
replied his father
replied Alfred
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Mary Percival
said Emma
replied Alfred, laughing
observed Mrs. Campbell
said Mary
added Emma, looking archly at Alfred
said Alfred
replied Emma.

Shortly afterward Mr. Campbell rang the bell for the servants; family
prayers were read, and all retired in good spirits.

The next morning they all met at an early hour; and after Mr. Campbell
had, as was his invariable rule, read a portion of the Bible, and a
prayer of thankfulness, they sat down to breakfast. After breakfast was
over, Mr. Campbell said
replied Henry
said Mr. Campbell
replied Mary
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell embraced their nieces, for they were much affected
by Mary's reply.

After a pause, Mrs. Campbell said
said
Mr. Campbell
replied Henry, coloring up a little
said Alfred
A few hours after this conversation, Henry and Alfred left the Hall
upon their several destinations. Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and the two girls
had plenty of employment for three or four days in packing up. It was
soon spread through the neighborhood that they were going to emigrate to
Canada; and the tenants who had held their farms under Mr. Campbell, all
came forward and proffered their wagons and horses to transport the
effects to Liverpool, without his being put to any expense.

In the meantime a letter had been received from Alfred, who had not been
idle. He had made acquaintance with some merchants who traded to Canada,
and by them had been introduced to two or three persons who had settled
there a few years before, and who were able to give him every
information. They informed him what was most advisable to take out; how
they were to proceed upon their landing; and, what was of more
importance, the merchants gave him letters of introduction to English
merchants at Quebec, who would afford them every assistance in the
selecting and purchasing of land, and in their transport up the country.
Alfred had also examined a fine timber-ship, which was to sail in three
weeks; and had bargained for the price of their passage, in case they
could get ready in time to go by her. He wrote all these particulars to
his father, waiting for his reply to act upon his wishes.

Henry returned from Oxford, having settled his accounts, and with the
produce of the sale of his classics and other books in his pocket. He
was full of spirits, and of the greatest assistance to his father and
mother.

Alfred had shown so much judgment in all he had undertaken, that his
father wrote to him stating that they would be ready for the ship which
he named, and that he might engage the cabins, and also at once procure
the various articles which they were advised to take out with them, and
draw upon him for the amount, if the people would not wait for the
money. In a fortnight they were all ready; the wagons had left with
their effects some days before. Mr. Campbell wrote a letter to Mr.
Douglas Campbell, thanking him for his kindness and consideration to
them, and informing him that they would leave Wexton Hall on the
following day. He only begged, as a favor, that the schoolmaster and
schoolmistress of the village school should be continued on, as it was
of great importance that the instruction of the poor should not be
neglected; and added, that perceiving by the newspapers that Mr. Douglas
Campbell had lately married, Mrs. Campbell and he wished him and his
wife every happiness, etc., etc.

Having dispatched this letter, there was nothing more to be done,
previous to their departure from the Hall, except to pay and dismiss the
few servants who were with them; for Mrs. Campbell had resolved upon
taking none out with her. That afternoon they walked round the
plantation and park for the last time. Mrs. Campbell and the girls went
round the rooms of the Hall to ascertain that every thing was left tidy,
neat, and clean. The poor girls sighed as they passed by the harp and
piano in the drawing-room, for they were old friends
said Emma
The following morning, the coach, of which they had secured the whole of
the inside, drove up to the Hall door, and they all got in, the tenants
and poor people standing round them, all with their hats in their hands
out of respect, and wishing them every success as they drove away
through the avenue to the park gates. The Hall and the park itself had
been long out of sight before a word was exchanged. They checked their
tears, but their hearts were too full for them to venture to speak.

The day afterward they arrived at Liverpool, where Alfred had provided
lodgings. Every thing had been sent on board, and the ship had hauled
out in the stream. As they had nothing to detain them on the shore, and
the captain wished to take advantage of the first fair wind, they all
embarked four days after their arrival at Liverpool; and I shall now
leave them on board of the London Merchant, which was the name of the
vessel, making all their little arrangements previous to their sailing,
under the superintendence of Alfred, while I give some little more
insight into the characters, ages, and dispositions of the family
Mr. Campbell was a person of many amiable qualities. He was a religious,
good man, very fond of his wife, to whose opinions he yielded in
preference to his own, and very partial to his children, to whom he was
inclined to be over indulgent. He was not a person of much energy of
character, but he was sensible and well-informed. His goodness of heart
rendered him liable to be imposed upon, for he never suspected any
deceit, notwithstanding that he was continually deceived. His character
was therefore that of a simple, good, honest man.

Mrs. Campbell was well matched with him as a wife, as she had all that
energy and decision of character which was sometimes wanting in her
husband. Still there was nothing masculine in her manners and
appearance; on the contrary, she was delicate in her form, and very soft
in her manners. She had great firmness and self-possession, and had
brought up all her children admirably. Obedience to their parents was
the principle instilled into them after their duty to God; for she knew
too well that a disobedient child can never prosper. If ever there was a
woman fitted to meet the difficulty and danger which threatened them, it
was Mrs. Campbell, for she had courage and presence of mind, joined to
activity and cleverness.

Henry, the eldest son, was now nearly twenty years of age. He possessed
much of the character of his father, was without vice, but rather
inclined to inaction than otherwise. Much was to be ascribed to his
education and college life, and more to his natural disposition.

Alfred, the sailor, was, on the contrary, full of energy and active in
every thing, patient and laborious, if required, and never taking any
thing in hand without finishing it, if possible. He was rough, but not
rude, both in his speech and his manners, very kind-hearted, at the same
time very confident in himself and afraid of nothing.

Mary Percival was a very amiable, reflective girl, quiet without being
sad, not often indulging in conversation, except when alone with her
sister Emma. She was devotedly attached to her uncle and aunt, and was
capable of more than she had any idea of herself, for she was of a
modest disposition, and thought humbly of herself. Her disposition was
sweet, and was portrayed in her countenance. She was now seventeen years
old, and very much admired.

Her sister Emma, who was but fifteen, was of a very different
disposition, naturally gay, and inclined to find amusement in every
thing -- cheerful as the lark, and singing from morning to night. Her
disposition, owing to Mrs. Campbell's care and attention, was equally
amiable as her sister's, and her high spirits seldom betrayed her into
indiscretion. She was the life of the family when Alfred was away: he
only was her equal in high spirits.

Percival, the third boy, was now twelve years old; he was a quiet,
clever lad, very obedient and very attentive to what was told him, very
fond of obtaining information, being naturally very inquisitive.

John, the fourth boy, was ten years old -- a sturdy, John Bull sort of a
boy, not very fond of learning, but a well-disposed boy in most things.
He preferred any thing to his book; at the same time, he was obedient,
and tried to keep up his attention as well as he could, which was all
that could be expected from a boy of his age. He was very slow in every
thing, very quiet, and seldom spoke unless first spoken to. He was not
silly, although many people would have thought him so, but he certainly
was a very strange boy, and it was difficult to say what he would turn
out.

I have now described the family as they appeared at the time that they
embarked on board of the London Merchant; and have only to add, that on
the third day after their embarkation, they made sail with a fair wind,
and ran down the Irish Channel.

The London Merchant sailed for Cork, where the North American convoy
were to assemble. At the time we speak of, the war had recommenced
between this country and the French, who were suffering all the horrors
of the Revolution. On their arrival at Cork, our party recovered a
little from the sea-sickness to which all are subject on their first
embarkation. They found themselves at anchor with more than a hundred
merchant vessels, among which were to be perceived the lofty masts and
spars of a large fifty-gun ship, and two small frigates, which were
appointed to convoy them to their destination.

The rest of the party, still suffering, soon went down below again, but
Alfred remained on deck leaning against the bulwarks of the vessel, his
eyes and his thoughts intently fixed upon the streaming pennants of the
men-of-war, and a tear rolled down his cheek, as he was reminded that he
no longer could follow up his favorite profession. The sacrifice he had
made to his family was indeed great. He had talked lightly of it before
them, not wishing them to believe it was so. He had not told his father
that he had passed his examination for lieutenant before he had been
paid off at Portsmouth; and that his captain, who was very partial to
him, had promised that he should soon be advanced in the service. He had
not told them that all his wishes, all his daily hopes, the most anxious
desire of his existence, which was to become a post-captain, and in
command of a fine frigate, were blighted by this sacrifice he had made
for them and their comfort. He had concealed all this, and assumed a
mirth which he did not feel; but now that he was alone, and the pennant
was once more presented to his view, his regrets could not be
controlled. He sighed deeply, and turning away with his arms folded,
said to himself
said Alfred, after a
while, to a man in a boat
replied the Irishman
cried
Alfred
Alfred ran down to the cabin, and requested the captain of the
transport, whose name was Wilson, to allow him the small boat to go on
board the man-of-war. His request was granted, and Alfred was soon up
the side of the Portsmouth. There were some of his old messmates on the
quarter-deck, who welcomed him heartily, for he was a great favorite.
Shortly afterward, he sent down a message by the steward, requesting
that Captain Lumley would see him, and was immediately afterward ordered
to go into the cabin
said Captain Lumley
replied Alfred
Alfred then detailed to Captain Lumley all that had occurred, the
resolution which his father and mother had taken, and their being then
on board the timber-ship, and about to proceed to their new destination.

Captain Lumley heard Alfred's story without interruption, and then,
after a pause, said
Alfred left the cabin, much flattered by the kindness of Captain Lumley,
and went down to his former messmates, with whom he remained until the
boatswain piped away the crew of the captain's barge. He then went on
deck, and as soon as the captain came up, he went into the boat. The
captain followed, and they were soon on board of the London Merchant.
Alfred introduced Captain Lumley to his father and mother; and in the
course of half an hour, being mutually pleased with each other, an
intimacy was formed, when Captain Lumley observed
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Captain Lumley
Captain Lumley shook hands with Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, bowed to the rest
of the cabin party, and quitted the ship. As he went over the side, he
observed to Alfred
Although the idea of Alfred leaving them during the passage out was not
pleasant, Mr. and Mrs. Campbell were most happy at the chance which had
offered itself for their son's advantage, and seemed in good spirits
when he took leave of them on the following morning
observed Alfred, as he was taking leave
replied Captain Wilson
laughing
Alfred shoved off in the boat, and was soon on board of the Portsmouth.
The following day they sailed with a fair wind and moderate weather; the
convoy now increased to 120 vessels.

We must leave Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and family on board the London
Merchant, and follow Alfred in the Portsmouth, during the passage to
Quebec.

For several days the weather was moderate, although the wind was not
always fair, and the convoy was kept together, and in good order. The
London Merchant was never far away from the Portsmouth, and Alfred
employed a large portion of his time, when he was not keeping his watch,
in keeping his spy-glass upon the vessel, and watching the motions of
his cousins and the rest of the family. On board of the London Merchant
they were similarly occupied, and very often a handkerchief was waved by
way of salute and recognition. At last they arrived off the banks of
Newfoundland, and were shrouded in a heavy fog, the men-of-war
constantly firing guns, to inform the merchant-ships in what direction
they were to steer, and the merchant-vessels of the convoy ringing their
bells, to warn each other, that they might not be run foul of.

The fog lasted two days, and was still continuing when the party on
board the London Merchant, just as they were sitting down to dinner in
the cabin, heard a noise and bustle on deck. Captain Wilson ran hastily
up and found that his vessel had been boarded by a French boat's crew,
who had beaten down the men and taken possession. As there was no help,
all he could do was to go down to the cabin, and inform his passengers
that they were prisoners. The shock of this intelligence was very great,
as may be supposed, but still there was no useless lamentation or
weeping. One thing is certain, that this news quite spoiled their
appetite for their dinner, which, however, was soon dispatched by the
French officer and his men, after the boat had left, and the vessel's
head had been put in an opposite direction.

Captain Wilson, who had returned on deck, came down in about a quarter
of an hour, and informed the party, who were silently brooding over this
sudden change in their prospects, that the wind was very light, and that
he thought the fog was clearing off a little, and that if it did so
before it was dark, he was in great hopes that they should be
recaptured. This intelligence appeared to revive the hopes of Mr. and
Mrs. Campbell, and they were still more encouraged when they heard the
sounds of guns at no very great distance. In a few minutes afterward the
cannonading became very furious, and the Frenchmen who were on board
began to show strong signs of uneasiness.

The fact was, that a French squadron, of one sixty-gun ship and two
corvettes, had been on the look-out for the convoy, and had come in
among them during the fog. They had captured and taken possession of
several vessels before they were discovered, but the sixty-gun ship at
last ran very near to the Portsmouth, and Alfred, who had the watch, and
was on a sharp look-out, soon perceived through the looming fog, that
she was not one of the convoy. He ran down to acquaint the captain, and
the men were immediately ordered to their quarters, without beating the
drum, or making any noise that might let the enemy know they were so
near. The yards were then braced in, to check the way of the Portsmouth,
so that the strange vessel might come up with her. Silence was kept fore
and aft, not a whisper was to be heard; and as the Frenchmen neared
them, they perceived a boat putting off from her to board another vessel
close to them, and also heard the orders given to the men in the French
language. This was sufficient for Captain Lumley: he put the helm down,
and poured a raking broadside into the enemy, who was by no means
prepared for such a sudden salute, although her guns were cast loose,
ready for action, in case of accident. The answer to the broadside was a
cry of
and, in a few seconds, both ships were
hotly engaged -- the Portsmouth having the advantage of lying upon the bow
of her antagonist.

As is often the case, the heavy cannonading brought on a dead calm, and
the two ships remained in their respective positions, except that the
Portsmouth's was more favorable, having drawn ahead of the French
vessel, so that her broadside was poured into her opponent, without her
being able to return the fire from more than four or five of her guns.
The fog became more opaque than ever; the two ships had neared each
other considerably, or it would have been impossible to distinguish. All
that they could see from the deck of the Portsmouth was the jib-boom and
cap of the bowsprit of the Frenchman, the rest of her bowsprit, and her
whole hull, were lost in the impenetrable gloom; but that was sufficient
for the men to direct their guns, and the fire from the Portsmouth was
most rapid, although the extent of its execution was unknown. After half
an hour of incessant broadsides, the two vessels had approached each
other so close, that the jib-boom of the Frenchman was pointed between
the fore and main rigging of the Portsmouth. Captain Lumley immediately
gave orders to lash the Frenchman's bowsprit to his mainmast, and this
was accomplished by the first lieutenant, Alfred, and the seamen,
without any serious loss, for the fog was still so thick, that the
Frenchman on their forecastle could not perceive what was doing at their
bowsprit's cap
said Captain Lumley to the first lieutenant
replied Captain Lumley
repeated Captain Lumley to
the first lieutenant
said the master
replied Captain Lumley
A white silvery line appeared on the horizon, to the northward;
gradually it increased, and as it rose up, became broader, till at last
the curtain was lifted up, and a few feet were to be seen above the
clear blue water. As it continued to approach, the light became more
vivid, the space below increased, and the water was ruffled with the
coming wind, till at last the fog rolled off as if it had been gradually
furled, and sweeping away in a heavy bank to leeward, exposed the state
and position of the whole convoy, and the contending vessels. The
English seamen on board of the Portsmouth cheered the return of
daylight, as it might truly be termed. Captain Lumley found that they
had been contending in the very center of the convoy, which was still
lying around them, with the exception of about fifteen vessels, which
were a few miles apart, with their heads in an opposite direction. These
were evidently those which had been captured. The two frigates, which
had been stationed in the rear of the convoy, were still two or three
miles distant, but making all sail to come up and assist the Portsmouth.
Many of the convoy, which had been in the direction of the fire,
appeared to have suffered in their masts and sails; but whether any
injury had been received in their hulls it was not possible to say. The
French line-of-battle ship had suffered dreadfully from the fire of the
Portsmouth. Her mainmast and mizzen-mast were over the side, her forward
ports were many of them almost beat into one, and every thing on board
appeared to be in the greatest confusion
observed Captain Lumley
observed the first
lieutenant
Alfred ran aft to obey the orders. The flags had just flown out at the
mast-head, when he received a bullet through his arm: for the French,
unable to use the major portion of their guns, had, when the fog cleared
up, poured in incessant volleys of musketry upon the decks of the
Portsmouth. Alfred desired the quarter-master to untie his neck
handkerchief for him, and bind up his arm. Having so done, he continued
to do his duty. A bold attempt was now made by the French to clear their
vessel by cutting the fastening of her bowsprit, but the marines of the
Portsmouth were prepared for them, and after about twenty gallant
fellows had dropped down on the booms and gangways of the Portsmouth,
the attempt was given up, and four minutes afterward the French colors
were hauled down. She was boarded from her bowsprit by the first
lieutenant and a party of seamen. The lashings were cast off, and the
vessels cleared of each other, and then the English seamen gave three
cheers in honor of the victory
The French sixty-gun ship proved to be the Leonidas; she had been sent
out with two large frigates on purpose to intercept the convoy, but she
had parted with her consorts in a gale of wind. Her loss of men was very
great; that on board of the Portsmouth was trifling. In a couple of
hours the Portsmouth and her prize in tow were ready to proceed with the
convoy, but they still remained hove to, to wait for the frigates which
were in chase of the captured vessels. All of these were speedily come
up with except the London Merchant, which sailed so remarkably well. At
last, to the great joy of Alfred (who as soon as the bullet had been
extracted and his arm dressed, had held his telescope fixed upon the
chase), she hove to, and was taken possession of. Before night, the
convoy were again collected together, and were steering for their
destination. The next morning was clear, and the breeze moderate. Mrs.
Campbell, who, as well as all the rest, was very anxious about Alfred,
requested Captain Wilson to run down to the Portsmouth, that they might
ascertain if he was safe. Captain Wilson did as she requested, and
writing in chalk "all well" in large letters upon the log-board, held it
over the side as he passed close to the Portsmouth. Alfred was not on
deck -- fever had compelled him to remain in his hammock -- but Captain
Lumley made the same reply on the log-board of the Portsmouth, and Mr.
and Mrs. Campbell were satisfied
said Mrs. Campbell
observed Captain Wilson
replied Mr. Campbell
said Emma
said Mary Percival
replied Mrs. Campbell
The Portsmouth cast off the French line-of-battle ship, as soon as they
had jury-masts up and could make sail on them, and the convoy proceeded
to the mouth of the St. Lawrence
said Percival, whose eyes were fixed on the water
replied Captain
Wilson
Captain Wilson then, at Percival's request, gave him an account of how
the whales were caught, for he had been several voyages himself in the
northern whale fishery.

Percival was never tired of asking questions, and Captain Wilson was
very kind to him, and always answered him. John, generally speaking,
stood by when Captain Wilson was talking, looking very solemn and very
attentive, but not saying a word
said Emma to him after the conversation had been ended
replied John, walking past her
replied John, walking away
observed Captain Wilson, laughing
replied Emma, taking
the offered arm of Captain Wilson, who, at her request, immediately
resumed the subject.

In three weeks from the day of the action they had anchored off the town
of Quebec.

As soon as they had anchored, Alfred obtained leave to go on board of
the London Merchant, and then, for the first time, his family knew that
he had been wounded. His arm was still in a sling, but was healing fast.

I shall pass over the numerous inquiries on his part, relative to their
capture and recapture, and on theirs, as to the action with the French
ship.

While they were in conversation, Captain Lumley was reported to be
coming on board in his boat. They went on the deck of the vessel to
receive him
said Captain Lumley after the first salutations
were over
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Captain Lumley
Captain Lumley then took a cordial leave of the whole party, telling
Alfred that he might consider himself as discharged from the ship, and
might rejoin his family
said Mrs. Campbell, as she watched the boat pulling away
Shortly afterward Mrs. Campbell and Henry went on shore with Captain
Wilson to look out for lodgings, and present the letters of introduction
which he had received for some Quebec merchants. As they were looking
for lodgings in company with a Mr. Farquhar, who had kindly volunteered
to assist them, they met Captain Lumley on his return from the
Governor
said Captain Lumley
said Mr. Farquhar.

Mrs. Campbell expressed her acknowledgments to Captain Lumley, and
returned on board with this pleasing intelligence
said Mrs.
Campbell
The next day the family disembarked and took possession of the Admiralty
House. Mr. Farquhar procured them a female servant, who, with a man and
his wife left in charge of the house, supplied all the attendance they
required. Mrs. Campbell settled with Captain Wilson, who very generously
refused to take any money for Alfred's passage, as he had not remained
on board of the London Merchant: promising, however, to accept their
invitation to come to them whenever he could find leisure, he took leave
of them for the present, and they were left alone in their new
residence.

In a few days the Campbells found themselves comfortably settled in the
Admiralty House, but they had no intention of remaining there longer
than was necessary; as, notwithstanding the accommodation, their
residence at Quebec was attended with expense, and Mr. Campbell was
aware that he had no money to throw away.

On the fourth day after their landing Captain Lumley called to take
leave; but the day previous he had introduced them to the Governor, who
returned Mr. Campbell's call, and appeared to be much interested in
their welfare, owing of course to the representations of Captain Lumley.
It was not, therefore, surprising that they should part with regret from
one who had proved himself such a kind friend; and many were the
expressions of gratitude which were made by the whole party. Captain
Lumley shook hands with them all; and, assuring Alfred that he would not
lose sight of his interests, wished them every success, and left the
house. An hour afterward the Portsmouth was under weigh, and running out
with a fine breeze.

On the following day the Governor requested Mr. Campbell would call upon
him; and when they met, he pointed out to him that he would have great
difficulties, and, he was fearful, great hardships, to encounter in
following up his plan of settling in Upper Canada. He did not dissuade
him from so doing, as he had nothing more promising to offer which might
induce him to change his mind, but he thought it right to forewarn him
of trials, that he might be well prepared
A long conversation then took place between the Governor and Mr.
Campbell, during which the latter received much valuable information: it
was interrupted, however, by the arrival of the Surveyor-General, and
the topic was resumed
observed the
Surveyor-General, after a time
The Surveyor-General pointed to a part of the map, near to Presqu' Ile
de Quinte, as he made this observation to the Governor.

"I agree with you," replied the Governor, "and I observe that there is
already a settler on the other side of the stream."

"Yes, sir," replied the Surveyor; "that allotment was granted before it
was decided that the rest should be a Government reserve; and if proof
were required of the goodness of the land, it would be found in the
person who took it. It was taken four years ago by the old hunter,
Malachi Bone; he has been over every part of it, of course, and knows
what it is. You recollect the man, don't you, sir? He was a guide to the
English army before the surrender of Quebec; General Wolfe had a high
opinion of him, and his services were so good that he was allowed that
tract of 150 acres."

"I now remember him," replied the Governor, "but as I have not seen him
for so many years, he had escaped my recollection."

"It will be a great advantage to you, Mr. Campbell, having this man as a
neighbor."

"Now," continued the Governor, addressing the Surveyor-General, "do you
know of any person who would be willing to serve Mr. Campbell, and who
can be depended upon; of course one who understands the country, and who
would be really useful?"

"Yes, Governor, I do know a very good man, and you know him also; but
you know the worst part of him, for he is generally in trouble when you
see him."

"Who is that?"

"Martin Super, the trapper."

"Why, that is the young fellow who breeds such disturbances, and who, if
I recollect right, is now in prison for a riot."

"The very same, sir; but Martin Super, although a troublesome fellow at
Quebec, is worth his weight in gold when he is out of the town. You may
think it strange, Mr. Campbell, that I should recommend a man who
appears to be so unruly a character; but the fact is that the trappers,
who go in pursuit of the game for their skins, after having been out for
months, undergoing every privation that can be imagined, return home
with their packages of skins, which they dispose of to the merchants of
this town; and as soon as they have their money, they never cease their
revelry of every description until their earnings are all gone, and then
they set off again on their wild and venturous pursuit. Now Martin
Super, like all the rest, must have his fun when he comes back, and
being a very wild fellow, he is often in scrapes when he has drunk too
much, so that he is occasionally put into prison for being riotous; but
I know him well, he has been with me surveying for months, and when he
is on service, a more steady, active, and brave man I do not know."

"I believe you are right in recommending him," observed the Governor,
"he will not be sorry to get out of the gaol, and I have no doubt but
that he will conduct himself well if he once agrees to take your
service, Mr. Campbell, for one or two years. As for the Canadians, they
are very harmless, but at the same time very useful. There are
exceptions, no doubt; but their general character is any thing but that
of activity and courage. As I said before, you will require stout
hearts, and Martin Super is one, that is certain. Perhaps you can
arrange this for Mr. Campbell?"

The Surveyor-General promised to do so; shortly after which, Mr.
Campbell, with many thanks, took his leave of the Governor.

Mr. Campbell, who had gained every possible information relative to what
would be most necessary for him to take with him, was actively employed
for a fortnight in making his purchases. During this time much attention
was shown to them both by the English and French residents at Quebec.
Alfred, whose wound was now nearly healed, was as active as usual, and
Henry was of great assistance to his father in taking inventories and
making out lists, etc. Nor were Mrs. Campbell and the two girls
unemployed; they had purchased the coarse manufactures of the country,
and were very busy making dresses for themselves and for the children.
Mr. Campbell had been one morning at Mr. Farquhar's, the merchant's, to
make inquiries about a conveyance up to his new purchase (for he had
concluded his arrangements with the Surveyor-General), when the Governor
sent a message by one of his aides-de-camp, to say that it was his
intention in the course of ten days to send a detachment of soldiers up
to Fort Frontignac -- news having been received that the garrison was
weakened by a fever which had broken out; and that if Mr. Campbell would
like to avail himself of the opportunity, he and his family, and all his
luggage, should go under the escort of the officer and troops. The offer
was of course joyfully accepted, and on Mr. Campbell's calling upon the
Governor to return his thanks, the latter told him that there would be
plenty of room in the _bateaux_ and canoes for them and all their
luggage, and that he need not give himself further trouble, or incur any
further expense
The next day the Surveyor-General called, bringing with him Martin
Super, the trapper
said the Surveyor
Martin Super was rather tall, very straight-limbed, showing both
activity and strength. His head was smaller than usually is the case,
which gave him the appearance of great lightness and agility. His
countenance was very pleasing, being expressive of continual good humor,
which was indeed but corresponding to his real character. He was dressed
in a sort of hunting-coat of deer-skin, blue cloth leggings, a cap of
raccoon's skin, with a broad belt round his waist, in which he wore his
knife
The Surveyor-General read the agreement, and Martin nodded his head in
acquiescence
Mr. Campbell signed his name, and handed the pen to Martin Super, who
then for the first time spoke
replied Martin, who then made under Mr. Campbell's name,
a figure like &lsqb;Illustration of a panther&rsqb; saying
replied the Surveyor-General
The Surveyor-General then took his leave, and Martin Super remained.
Mrs. Campbell was the first who spoke
said she
cried the girls
said Emma
replied Martin, laughing, and showing a row of teeth as white
as ivory
inquired Mrs. Campbell
exclaimed Mary
Mr. Farquhar then came in, and the question was referred to him; he
laughed and told them that painters were a species of panther, not
spotted but tawny-colored, and at times very dangerous
said Henry
to Super
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mrs.
Campbell
After an hour's conversation, Martin Super was dismissed; the whole of
the family (except Alfred, who was not at home) very much pleased with
what they had seen of him.

A few days after this, Martin Super, who had now entered upon service,
and was very busy with Alfred, with whom he had already become a
favorite, was sent for by Mr. Campbell, who read over to him the
inventory of the articles which they had, and inquired of him if there
was any thing else which might be necessary or advisable to take with
them
replied Martin
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
pointing to John
said Mr. Campbell
observed Mrs. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
When Super had quitted the room, which he did soon afterward, Mr.
Campbell observed
replied his wife
said Mary Percival
followed up Emma, laughing
At last all the purchases were completed, and every thing was packed up
and ready for embarkation. Another message from the Governor was
received, stating that in three days the troops would be embarked, and
also informing Mr. Campbell that if he had not purchased any cows or
horses, the officer at Fort Frontignac had more cattle than were
requisite, and could supply him; which, perhaps, would be preferable to
carrying them up so far. Mr. Campbell had spoken about, but not finally
settled for, the cows, and therefore was glad to accept the Governor's
offer. This message was accompanied with a note of invitation to Mr.
Campbell, the ladies, and Henry and Alfred, to take a farewell dinner at
Government House the day before their departure. The invitation was
accepted, and Mr. Campbell was introduced to the officer commanding the
detachment which was about to proceed to Fort Frontignac, and received
from him every assurance of his doing all he could to make them
comfortable. The kindness of the Governor did not end here: he desired
the officer to take two large tents for the use of Mr. Campbell, to be
returned to the fort when the house had been built, and they were
completely settled. He even proposed that Mrs. Campbell and the Misses
Percival should remain at Government House until Mr. Campbell had made
every preparation to receive them; but this Mrs. Campbell would not
consent to, and, with many thanks, she declined the offer
Although it was now the middle of May, it was but a few days before
their departure that there was the least sign of verdure, or the trees
had burst into leaf; but in the course of the three days before they
quitted Quebec, so rapid was the vegetation, that it appeared as if
summer had come upon them all at once. The heat was also very great,
although, when they had landed, the weather was piercing cold; but in
Canada, as well as in Northern America, the transitions from heat to
cold, and from cold to heat, are very rapid.

My readers will be surprised to hear that when the winter sets in at
Quebec, all the animals required for the winter's consumption are at
once killed. If the troops are numerous, perhaps three or four hundred
bullocks are slaughtered and hung up. Every family kill their cattle,
their sheep, pigs, turkeys, fowls, etc., and all are put up in the
garrets, where the carcasses immediately freeze hard, and remain quite
good and sweet during the six or seven months of severe winter which
occur in that climate. When any portion of meat is to be cooked, it is
gradually thawed in lukewarm water, and after that is put to the fire.
If put at once to the fire in its frozen state it spoils. There is
another strange circumstance which occurs in these cold latitudes; a
small fish, called the snow-fish, is caught during the winter by making
holes in the thick ice, and these fish coming to the holes in thousands
to breathe, are thrown out with hand-nets upon the ice, where they
become in a few minutes frozen quite hard, so that, if you wish it, you
may break them in half like a rotten stick. The cattle are fed upon
these fish during the winter months. But it has been proved, which is
very strange, that if, after they have been frozen for twenty-four hours
or more, you put these fish into water and gradually thaw them as you do
the meat, they will recover and swim about again as well as ever. To
proceed however, with our history,--

Mr. Campbell found that, after all his expenses, he had still three
hundred pounds left, and this money he left in the Quebec Bank, to use
as he might find necessary. His expenditure had been very great. First,
there was the removal of so large a family, and the passage out; then he
had procured at Liverpool a large quantity of cutlery and tools,
furniture, etc., all of which articles were cheaper there than at
Quebec. At Quebec he had also much to purchase: all the most expensive
portion of his house; such as windows ready glazed, stoves, boarding for
floors, cupboards, and partitions; salt provisions, crockery of every
description, two small wagons ready to be put together, several casks of
nails, and a variety of things which it would be too tedious to mention.
Procuring these, with the expenses of living, had taken away all his
money, except the three hundred pounds I have mentioned.

It was on the 13th of May that the embarkation took place, and it was
not until the afternoon that all was prepared, and Mrs. Campbell and her
nieces were conducted down to the _bateaux_, which lay at the wharf,
with the troops all ready on board of them. The Governor and his
aides-de-camp, besides many other influential people of Quebec, escorted
them down, and as soon as they had paid their adieus, the word was
given, the soldiers in the _bateaux_ gave three cheers and away they
went from the wharf into the stream. For a short time there was waving
of handkerchiefs and other tokens of good-will on the part of those who
were on the wharf; but that was soon left behind them, and the family
found themselves separated from their acquaintances and silently
listening to the measured sound of the oars, as they dropped into the
water.

And it is not to be wondered at that they were silent, for all were
occupied with their own thoughts. They called to mind the beautiful
park at Wexton, which they had quitted, after having resided there so
long and so happily; the hall, with all its splendor and all its
comfort, rose up in their remembrance; each room with its furniture,
each window with its view, was recalled to their memories; they had
crossed the Atlantic, and were now about to leave civilization and
comfort behind them -- to isolate themselves in the Canadian woods -- to
trust to their own resources, their own society, and their own
exertions. It was, indeed, the commencement of a new life, and for which
they felt themselves little adapted, after the luxuries they had enjoyed
in their former condition; but if their thoughts and reminiscences made
them grave and silent, they did not make them despairing or repining;
they trusted to that Power who alone could protect -- who gives and who
takes away, and doeth with us as He judges best; and if hope was not
buoyant in all of them, still there was confidence, resolution, and
resignation. Gradually they were roused from their reveries by the
beauty of the scenery and the novelty of what met their sight; the
songs, also, of the Canadian boatmen were musical and cheering, and by
degrees, they had all recovered their usual good spirits.

Alfred was the first to shake off his melancholy feelings and to attempt
to remove them from others; nor was he unsuccessful. The officer who
commanded the detachment of troops, and who was in the same _bateau_
with the family, had respected their silence upon their departure from
the wharf -- perhaps he felt much as they did. His name was Sinclair, and
his rank that of senior captain in the regiment -- a handsome, florid
young man, tall and well made, very gentleman-like, and very gentle in
his manners
said Alfred,
first breaking the silence
replied Mrs. Campbell
said Emma
rejoined Alfred
replied Emma
answered Alfred
retorted the young lady
answered Alfred
replied
Alfred, laughing
said Mary Percival
replied
Captain Sinclair
said Mr. Campbell
All the party were now standing up in the sternsheets of the _bateau_ to
look at the people on the raft, who amounted to about fifty or sixty
men -- now running over the top to one side, and dragging at the sweeps,
which required the joint power of seven or eight men to each of
them -- now passing again over to the opposite sweeps, as directed by the
steersmen. The _bateau_ kept well in to the shore, out of the way, and
the raft passed them very quickly. As soon as it was clear of the point,
as their course to Quebec was now straight, and there was a slight
breeze down the river, the people on board of the raft hoisted ten or
fifteen sails upon different masts, to assist them in their descent; and
this again excited the admiration of the party.

The conversation now became general, until the _bateaux_ were made fast
to the shores of the river, while the men took their dinners, which had
been prepared for them before they left Quebec. After a repose of two
hours, they again started, and at nightfall arrived at St. Anne's, where
they found every thing ready for their reception. Although their beds
were composed of the leaves of the maize or Indian corn, they were so
tired that they found them very comfortable, and at daylight arose quite
refreshed, and anxious to continue their route. Martin Super, who, with
the two youngest boys, had been placed in a separate boat, had been very
attentive to the comforts of the ladies after their embarkation; and it
appeared that he had quite won the hearts of the two boys by his amusing
anecdotes during the day.

Soon after their embarkation, the name of Pontiac being again mentioned
by Captain Sinclair, Mrs. Campbell observed
said Alfred
observed Mrs. Campbell
observed Mrs. Campbell
said Emma
continued Mary
said Henry Campbell
observed Alfred
replied Mr.
Campbell
The _bateaux_ were now on shore, and the party landed to pass the night
at the small stockaded village of Trois Rivieres
Captain Sinclair having stated that they would have a longer journey on
the following day, and that it would be advisable to start as soon as
possible, they rose at daylight, and in half an hour had breakfasted and
were again in the boats. Soon after they had pushed into the stream and
hoisted the sails, for the wind was fair, Mr. Campbell inquired how far
they had to go on that day
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Mrs. Campbell
After some further conversation, Mary Percival observed to Captain
Sinclair
exclaimed Alfred
replied Captain Sinclair
inquired Mrs. Campbell
said Mary Percival
remarked Mrs.
Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
It was two hours before sunset when they arrived at the spot at which
they intended passing the night; they landed, and some of the soldiers
were employed in setting up the tent on a dry hillock, while others
collected logs of wood for the fire. Martin Super brought on shore the
bedding, and, assisted by Alfred and Henry, placed it in the tent.
Captain Sinclair's canteen provided sufficient articles to enable them
to make tea, and in less than half an hour the kettle was on the fire.
As soon as they had partaken of these refreshments and the contents of a
basket of provisions procured at Trois Rivieres, the ladies retired for
the night. Captain Sinclair stationed sentinels at different posts as a
security from any intruders, and then the remainder of the troops with
the other males composing the party lay down with their feet toward a
large fire, composed of two or three trunks of trees, which blazed for
many yards in height. In a short time all was quiet, and all were in
repose except the sentinels, the sergeant and corporal, and Captain
Sinclair, who relieved each other.

The night passed without any disturbance, and the next morning they
re-embarked and pursued their course. Before sunset they arrived at the
town of Montreal, where it was arranged that they should wait a day. Mr.
Campbell had a few purchases to make here, which he completed. It had
been his intention also, to procure two of the small Canadian horses,
but by the advice of Captain Sinclair he abandoned the idea. Captain
Sinclair pointed out to him, that having no forage or means of
subsistence for the animals, they would be a great expense to him during
the first year without being of much use; and further, that in all
probability, when the garrison was relieved at Fort Frontignac on the
following year, the officers would be too glad to part with their horses
at a lower price than what they could be purchased for at Montreal.
Having a letter of introduction to the Governor, they received every
attention. The society was almost wholly French; and many of the
inhabitants called out of politeness, or to gratify their curiosity. The
French ladies shrugged up their shoulders, and exclaimed
when they heard that the Campbells were about to proceed to
such a distant spot and settle upon it. The French gentlemen told the
Miss Campbells that it was a great sacrifice to bury so much beauty in
the wilderness; but what they said had little effect upon any of the
party. Captain Sinclair offered to remain another day if Mr. Campbell
wished it; but, on the contrary, he was anxious to arrive as soon as
possible at his destination; and the following morning they again
embarked, having now about three hundred and sixty miles to ascend
against the current and the occasional rapids. It would take too much
space if I were to narrate all that took place during their difficult
ascent; how they were sometimes obliged to land and carry the cargoes of
the boats; how one or two _bateaux_ were upset and some of their stores
lost; and how their privations increased on each following day of their
journey. I have too much to relate to enter into this portion of the
narrative, although there might be much interest in the detail; it will
be sufficient to say that, after sixteen days of some peril and much
fatigue, and of considerable suffering from the clouds of musquitoes
which assailed them during the night, they were landed safely at Fort
Frontignac, and treated with every attention by the commandant, who had
received letters from the Governor of Quebec, desiring him to do all
that he possibly could to serve them. The commandant, Colonel Forster,
had shown Mr. Campbell and his party the rooms which had been provided
for them, and now, for the first time after many days, they found
themselves all together and alone.

After a short conversation, in which they canvassed and commented upon
the kindness which they had received, and the difficulties which they
had, in consequence, surmounted, during their long and tedious journey
to Quebec, Mr. Campbell observed
Mr. Campbell kneeled down, surrounded by his family, and,
in a fervent and feeling address poured forth his thanksgiving for past
mercies and humble solicitation for further assistance. So powerful and
so eloquent were his words, that the tears coursed down the cheeks of
his wife and nieces; and when he had finished, all their hearts were so
full, that they retired to their beds without further exchange of words
than receiving his blessing, and wishing each other good-night
The party were so refreshed by once more sleeping upon good beds, that
they were up and dressed very early, and shortly after seven o'clock
were all collected upon the rampart of the fort, surveying the
landscape, which was indeed very picturesque and beautiful. Before them,
to their left, the lake was spread, an inland sea, lost in the horizon,
now quite calm, and near to the shores studded with small islands
covered with verdant foliage, and appearing as if they floated upon the
transparent water. To the westward, and in front of them, were the
clearings belonging to the fort, backed with the distant woods: a herd
of cattle were grazing on a portion of the cleared land; the other was
divided off by a snake fence, as it is termed, and was under
cultivation. Here and there a log-building was raised as a shelter for
the animals during the winter, and at half a mile's distance was a small
fort, surrounded with high palisades, intended as a place of retreat and
security for those who might be in charge of the cattle, in case of
danger or surprise. Close to the fort, a rapid stream, now from the
freshets overflowing its banks, poured down its waters into the lake,
running its course through a variety of shrubs and larches and
occasional elms which lined its banks. The sun shone bright -- the
woodpeckers flew from tree to tree, or clung to the rails of the
fences -- the belted kingfisher darted up and down over the running
stream -- and the chirping and wild notes of various birds were heard on
every side of them
said Mrs. Campbell
said Colonel Forster, who
had joined the party as Mrs. Campbell made the observation
interrupted Mrs. Campbell
replied Colonel Forster
replied Mr. Campbell
replied the commandant
said Captain Sinclair, who had been in conversation with Mary
Percival, and who now addressed Mr. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
replied Mr. Campbell
observed Colonel Forster
replied Mr. Campbell
A summons to breakfast broke up the conversation. During the day, Henry
and Alfred, assisted by Captain Sinclair and Martin Super, were very
busy in loading the two _bateaux_ with the stores, tents, and various
trunks of linen and other necessaries which they had brought with them.
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, with the girls, were equally busy in selecting
and putting on one side articles for immediate use on their arrival at
the allotment. As they were very tired, they went to bed early, that
they might be ready for the next day's re-embarkation; and after
breakfast, having taken leave of the kind commandant and the other
officers, they went down to the shore of the lake, and embarked with
Captain Sinclair in the commandant's boat, which had been prepared for
them. Martin Super, Alfred and Henry, with the five dogs, went on board
of the two _bateaux_, which were manned by the corporal and twelve
soldiers, lent by the commandant to Mr. Campbell. The weather was
beautifully fine, and they set off in high spirits. The distance by
water was not more three miles, although by land it was nearly five, and
in half an hour they entered the cove adjoining to which the allotment
lay
said Captain Sinclair, pointing with his hand
said Emma Percival, laughing
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Emma
The commandant's boat had pulled much faster, and was a long way ahead
of the _bateaux_. In a few minutes afterward they had all disembarked
and were standing on the knoll, surveying their new property. A portion
of about thirty acres, running along the shore of the lake, was what is
termed natural prairie, or meadow of short fine grass; the land
immediately behind the meadow was covered with brushwood for about three
hundred yards, and then rose a dark and impervious front of high timber
which completely confined the landscape. The allotment belonging to the
old hunter, on the opposite side of the brook, contained about the same
portion of natural meadow, and was in other respects but a continuation
of the portion belonging to Mr. Campbell
said Martin Super, as soon as he had come up to the party on the
knoll, for the _bateaux_ had now arrived
said Mr. Campbell
In a quarter of an hour all were in motion. Henry and Alfred took their
axes, and followed Martin Super and half of the soldiers, the others
were busy landing the stores and pitching the tents, while Captain
Sinclair and Mr. Campbell were surveying the ground, that they might
choose a spot for the erection of the house. Mrs. Campbell remained
sitting on the knoll, watching the debarkation of the packages; and
Percival, by her directions, brought her those articles which were for
immediate use. Mary and Emma Percival, accompanied by John, as they had
no task allotted to them, walked up the side of the stream toward the
wood
said John, who had been watching the running
water
said Mary
replied John
said Emma
replied John, walking on before them.

Mary and Emma followed him, now and then stopping to pick a flower
unknown to them: when they overtook John, he was standing immovable,
pointing to a figure on the other side of the stream, as fixed and
motionless as himself.

The girls started back as they beheld a tall, gaunt man, dressed in deer
hides, who stood leaning upon a long gun with his eyes fixed upon them.
His face was browned and weather-beaten -- indeed so dark that it was
difficult to say if he were of the Indian race or not
said Mary Percival
replied Emma
replied Mary. They did wait for a minute or
more, but the man neither spoke nor shifted his position
said Emma at last
replied the hunter in a deep voice
MALACHI
said Emma in a low tone to
her sister
replied the hunter, who without any
more ceremony threw his gun into the hollow of his arm, turned round,
and walked away in the direction of his own hut
observed Emma, after a pause of a few seconds, during
which they watched the receding form of the hunter
replied Mary.

They soon gained the spot where the men were felling the trees, and made
known to Alfred and Martin what had taken place
observed Martin
replied Mary Percival
said Alfred, laughing
replied Emma
The men selected by the commandant of the fort were well used to handle
the ax; before dusk, many trees had been felled, and were ready for
sawing into lengths. The tents had all been pitched: those for the
Campbells on the knoll we have spoken of; Captain Sinclair's and that
for the soldiers about a hundred yards distant; the fires were lighted,
and as the dinner had been cold, a hot supper was prepared by Martin and
Mrs. Campbell, assisted by the girls and the younger boys. After supper
they all retired to an early bed; Captain Sinclair having put a man as
sentry, and the dogs having been tied at different places, that they
might give the alarm if there was any danger; which, however, was not
anticipated, as the Indians had for some time been very quiet in the
neighborhood of Fort Frontignac
The next morning, when they assembled at breakfast, after Mr. Campbell
had read the prayers, Mary Percival said
said Alfred
continued Mary
said Captain Sinclair
After breakfast, Martin (we shall for the future leave out his surname)
informed Mr. Campbell that he had seen Malachi Bone, the hunter, who had
expressed great dissatisfaction at their arrival, and his determination
to quit the place if they remained
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Martin
observed Mrs. Campbell
observed
Captain Sinclair
replied Mr. Campbell
replied Martin.

The second day was passed as was the first, in making preparations for
erecting the house, which, now that they had obtained such unexpected
help, was, by the advice of Captain Sinclair, considerably enlarged
beyond the size originally intended. As Mr. Campbell paid the soldiers
employed a certain sum per day for their labor, he had less scruple in
employing them longer. Two of them were good carpenters, and a sawpit
had been dug, that they might prepare the doors and the frames for the
window-sashes which Mr. Campbell had taken the precaution to bring with
him. On the third day, a boat arrived from the fort bringing the men's
rations and a present of two fine bucks from the commandant. Captain
Sinclair went in the boat to procure some articles which he required,
and returned in the evening. The weather continued fine, and in the
course of a week, a great deal of timber was cut and squared. During
this time, Martin had several meetings with the old hunter, and it was
agreed that he should sell his property to Mr. Campbell. Money he
appeared to care little about -- indeed it was useless to him; gunpowder,
lead, flints, blankets, and tobacco, were the principal articles
requested in the barter; the amount, however, was not precisely settled.
An intimacy had been struck up between the old hunter and John; in what
manner it was difficult to imagine, as they both were very sparing of
their words; but this was certain, that John had contrived to get
across the stream somehow or another, and was now seldom at home to his
meals. Martin reported that he was in the lodge of the old hunter, and
that he could come to no harm; so Mrs. Campbell was satisfied
said Mrs. Campbell, as they were
clearing away the table after supper
observed Mary
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mary
interrupted Martin
cried Percival
said Mary
said Emma
replied Mary, laughing
continued Emma
replied
Alfred, laughing
observed Captain Sinclair
replied Emma
As she said this, old Malachi Bone came up, and seated himself, without
speaking, placing his rifle between his knees
said Mr. Campbell
said Bone, looking round him
replied Alfred
replied the hunter
said Martin
said Emma
said Alfred
retorted
Emma
said Malachi
Bone
said Mr. Campbell
Malachi Bone pointed to the westward
said the old hunter, after a pause
continued Malachi, putting his hand on John's head
replied Mr. Campbell
The old man then rose up, and walked away, John following him, without
exchanging a word with any of the party
said his wife
replied Mr. Campbell
said Martin
inquired Henry
observed Captain Sinclair
observed
Henry
said Martin
replied Mr. Campbell
We must pass over six weeks, during which the labor was continued
without intermission, and the house was raised, of logs, squared and
well fitted; the windows and doors were also put in, and the roof well
covered in with large squares of birch-bark, firmly fixed on the
rafters. The house consisted of one large room, as a dining-room, and
the kitchen, with a floor of well-beaten clay, a smaller room, as a
sitting-room, and three bedrooms, all of which were floored; one of the
largest of them fitted all round with bed-places against the walls, in
the same way as on board of packets; this room was for the four boys,
and had two spare bed-places in it. The others, which were for the two
girls and Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, were much smaller. But before the house
was half built, a large outhouse adjoining to it had been raised to hold
the stores which Mr. Campbell had brought with him, with a rough granary
made above the store-room. The interior of the house was not yet fitted
up, although the furniture had been put in, and the family slept in it,
rough as it was, in preference to the tents, as they were very much
annoyed with musquitoes. The stores were now safe from the weather, and
they had a roof over their heads, which was the grand object that was to
be obtained. The carpenters were still very busy fitting up the interior
of the house, and the other men were splitting rails for a snake-fence
and also selecting small timber for raising a high palisade round the
premises. Martin had not been idle. The site of the house was just where
the brushwood joined to the prairie, and Martin had been clearing it
away and stacking it, and also collecting wood for winter fuel. It had
been decided that the four cows, which had been driven round from the
fort, should be housed during the winter in the small building on the
other side of the stream, which had belonged to Malachi Bone, as it was
surrounded with a high snake-fence, and sufficiently large to hold them
and even more. The commandant had very kindly selected the most quiet
cows to milk, and Mary and Emma Percival had already entered upon their
duties: the milk had been put into the store-house until a dairy could
be built up. A very neat bridge had been thrown across the stream, and
every morning the two girls, generally attended by Henry, Alfred, or
Captain Sinclair, crossed over, and soon became expert in their new
vocation as dairy-maids. Altogether, things began to wear a promising
appearance. Henry and Mr. Campbell had dug up as fast as Martin and
Alfred cleared away the brushwood, and the garden had already been
cropped with such few articles as could be put in at the season. The
commandant had some pigs ready for the settlers as soon as they were
ready to receive them, and had more than once come up in the boats to
ascertain their progress and to offer any advice that he might consider
useful.

We must not, however, forget Malachi Bone. The day after Bone had come
to Mr. Campbell, Emma perceived him going away into the woods, with his
rifle, followed by her cousin John, and being very curious to see his
Indian wife, she persuaded Alfred and Captain Sinclair to accompany her
and Mary to the other side of the stream. The great point was to know
where to cross it, but as John had found out the means of so doing, it
was to be presumed that there was a passage, and they set off to look
for it. They found that, about half a mile up the stream, which there
ran through the wood, a large tree had been blown down and laid across
it, and with the assistance of the young men, Mary and Emma passed it
without much difficulty; they then turned back by the side of the stream
until they approached the lodge of old Malachi. As they walked toward
it, they could not perceive any one stirring; but at last a dog of the
Indian breed began to bark; still nobody came out, and they arrived at
the door of the lodge where the dog stood; when, sitting on the floor,
they perceived the Indian girl whom they were in search of. She was very
busy sewing a pair of moccasins out of deer leather. She appeared
startled when she first saw Alfred; but when she perceived that the
young ladies were with him, her confidence returned. She slightly bowed
her head, and continued her work
said Emma
replied Captain Sinclair
said
Mary
observed
Alfred
said Captain Sinclair
said
Captain Sinclair.

Captain Sinclair addressed her in the Indian language, and the Indian
girl replied in a very soft voice
MALACHI AND HIS WIFE.&rsqb;

Captain Sinclair again addressed her, and received her answer
said Emma
Captain Sinclair gave the message and the ornament to the Indian girl,
who replied, as she looked up and smiled at Emma
observed Mary
Mary did so; the Indian girl examined it, and smiled and nodded her
head
Captain Sinclair reported her answer, which was
As Captain Sinclair interpreted, the Indian girl pronounced after him
the names of Mary and Emma very distinctly
They then nodded farewell to the young Indian, and returned home. On the
second evening after their visit, as they were at supper, the
conversation turned upon the hunter and his young Indian wife, when
John, who had, as usual, been silent, suddenly broke out with
said Mr. Campbell
replied John.

John was correct in his statement. Early the next morning, Malachi Bone,
with his rifle on his shoulder and an ax in his hand, was seen crossing
the prairie belonging to Mr. Campbell, followed by his wife, who was
bent double under her burden, which was composed of all the property
which the old hunter possessed, tied up in blankets. He had left word
the night before with Martin that he would come back in a few days, as
soon as he had squatted, to settle the bargain for his allotment of land
made over to Mr. Campbell. This was just before they had sat down to
breakfast, and then they observed that John was missing
said Mrs. Campbell
said Martin
Martin was right. Two days afterward, John made his appearance again,
and remained very quietly at home during the whole week, catching fish
in the stream or practicing with a bow and some arrows, which he had
obtained from Malachi Bone; but the boy appeared to be more taciturn and
more fond of being alone than even he was before; still he was obedient
and kind toward his mother and cousins, and was fond of Percival's
company when he went to take trout from the stream.

It was of course after the departure of the old hunter, that his log hut
was taken possession of and the cows put into the meadow in front of it.

As the work became more advanced, Martin went out every day, accompanied
either by Alfred or Henry, in pursuit of game. Mr. Campbell had procured
an ample supply of ammunition, as well as the rifles, at Quebec. These
had been unpacked, and the young men were becoming daily more expert. Up
to the present, the supply of game from the fort, and occasional fresh
beef, had not rendered it necessary for Mr. Campbell to have much
recourse to his barrels of salt-pork, but still it was necessary that a
supply should be procured as often as possible, that they might husband
their stores. Martin was a certain shot if within distance, and they
seldom returned without a deer slung between them. The garden had been
cleared away and the pig-sties were finished, but there was still the
most arduous portion of the work to commence, which was the felling of
the trees to clear the land for the growing of corn. In this they could
expect no assistance from the garrison; indeed, from the indulgence of
the commandant, they had already obtained more than they could have
expected. It was in the last days of August, and the men lent from the
garrison were about to be recalled; the houses were completed, the
palisade had been raised round the house and store-house, and the men
were now required at the fort. Captain Sinclair received several hints
from the commandant that he must use all convenient dispatch, and limit
his absence to a few days more, which he trusted would be sufficient.
Captain Sinclair, who would willingly have remained in society which he
so much valued, and who had now become almost one of the family, found
that he could make no more excuses. He reported that he would be ready
to return on the 1st of September, and on the morning of that day the
_bateaux_ arrived to take back the soldiers, and bring the pigs and
fowls which had been promised. Mr. Campbell settled his account with
Captain Sinclair, by a draft upon his banker at Quebec, for the pay of
the soldiers, the cows, and the pigs. The Captain then took leave of his
friends with mutual regret, and many kind adieus, and, accompanied by
the whole of the family to the beach, embarked with all his men and
pulled away for the fort
The Campbells remained for some time on the shore of the lake watching
the receding _bateaux_ until they turned round the point and were hidden
from their sight, and then they walked back to the house. But few words
were exchanged as they returned, for they felt a sensation of loneliness
from having parted with so many of their own countrymen; not that they
were, with the exception of Captain Sinclair, companions, but that,
accustomed to the sight of the soldiers at their labor, the spot now
appeared depopulated by their departure. Martin, too, and John, were
both absent; the latter had been two days away, and Martin, who had not
yet found time to ascertain where old Malachi Bone had fixed his new
abode, had gone out in search of it, and to mention to him Mr.
Campbell's wishes as to John's visits to him, which were becoming more
frequent and more lengthened than Mr. Campbell wished them to be.

When they entered the house, they all sat down, and Mr. Campbell then
first spoke
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Mr. Campbell
observed Emma, after a pause, as if to give a more lively turn
to the conversation
continued Mary
said
Alfred
said
Alfred
replied Henry
replied Alfred
cried Emma
said Mrs.
Campbell
replied Martin, who had entered
continued Martin, throwing the
dead animal on the floor
said Henry
said Emma
said John
said Alfred
said Mr. Campbell
John made no answer
replied John
replied John
said Henry in a low voice
replied Mr. Campbell, aside
replied John
said Percival
said Emma
said Alfred
replied Mrs. Campbell
said Alfred
said Mr. Campbell
said Martin
said John with disdain
replied Martin
cried Percival
The next morning, Mary and Emma set off to milk the cows -- not, as usual,
attended by some of the young men, for Henry and Alfred were busy, and
Captain Sinclair was gone. As they crossed the bridge, Mary observed to
her sister
replied Emma
observed
Mary
replied Emma
replied Mary, gravely
said Mary, with a smile
replied Mary
replied Emma, laughing
On their return home, they found the old hunter with a fine buck lying
before him. Mr. Campbell was out with the boys and Martin, who wished
his opinion as to the size of the punt
said Mary
said Mary
said old Malachi, pulling from out of his
vest a small parcel, wrapped up in thin bark, and handing it to her
Mary opened the bark, and found inside of it a pair of moccasins, very
prettily worked in stained porcupines' quills
Mr. Campbell and those who were with him soon returned.

Malachi Bone then stated that he had brought the buck killed by John;
and that, if it suited, he would carry back with him a keg of gunpowder
and some lead; that he wished Mr. Campbell to calculate what he
considered due to him for the property, and let him take it out in
goods, as he required them
said Mr. Campbell
replied the old hunter, putting his hand upon
John's head
said Mr. Campbell
observed Martin
said Alfred
said John
said
Mrs. Campbell
Old Malachi stared at the conclusion of this speech; Alfred observed his
surprise, and burst into a fit of laughter. He then said
replied Bone
replied Mrs. Campbell
John bade farewell to the whole party with all due decorum, and then
trotted off after his schoolmaster
In the course of a week or two, things found their places, and the
family began to feel more comfortable; there was also a degree of
regularity and order established, which could not be effected during the
time that the soldiers were employed. Mrs. Campbell and Percival took
upon them all the work inside and round the house during the morning;
the latter attending to the pigs and fowls, bringing water from the
stream, etc. Mary and Emma milked the cows, and then assisted their
mother during the day in washing, etc. Mr. Campbell instructed Percival,
worked in the garden, and assisted as much as he could, where he might
be found most useful; but he was too advanced in years to be capable of
much hard work. Alfred, Henry and Martin Super were employed during the
whole day, clearing the ground and felling the timber; but every other
day, one or the other went out with Martin into the woods to procure
food, bringing home with them deer, wild turkeys, or other game, which
with an occasional piece of salt-pork, and the fish caught, were
sufficient for the family consumption. Percival was now permitted to
accompany the hunting-parties, and became somewhat expert with his
rifle. He required only a little more practice to be a good shot.

They rose at half-past five,-- were all assembled to prayers at half-past
seven, previous to going to breakfast. They dined at one, and had a
combined tea and supper at seven o'clock. At nine o'clock they went to
bed. Before two months had passed away, every thing went on like
clock-work. One day passed away so like another, that the time flew
imperceptibly, and they wondered that the Sundays came round so quick.
They had now time to unpack every thing, and the books which Mrs.
Campbell had selected and brought with her had been arranged on shelves
in the parlor; but they had not as yet much time to read, and were
generally too tired before the day was over not to long for their beds.
Indeed, the only interval of leisure during the whole day was between
supper and bedtime, when they would all assemble in the kitchen and talk
over the little matters which had occurred either during the chase or at
home. But they were now in the middle of October, the winter was fast
approaching, and they looked forward to it with some degree of anxiety.

John had kept his word very sacredly. He was occasionally absent for
three or four days, but if so, he invariably came to the house and
remained a day or two at home. Alfred and Martin had long finished the
fishing-punt, and as it was light and easily handled, Henry and Percival
went out in it together, and when he was at home, John with Percival
would pull half a mile out into the lake, and soon return with a supply
of large fish. Mrs. Campbell, therefore, had salted down sufficient to
fill a barrel for the winter's use.

One day they were agreeably surprised by Captain Sinclair making his
appearance. He had walked from the fort, to communicate to them that the
hay had been gathered in, and would be sent round in a day or two, and
also to inform Mr. Campbell that the commandant could spare them a young
bullock, if he would wish to have it for winter provision. This offer
was gladly accepted, and, having partaken of their dinner, Captain
Sinclair was obliged to return to the fort, he being that night on duty.
Previous, however, to his return, he had some conversation with Martin
Super, unobserved by the rest of the party. Afterward he invited Alfred
to walk back to the fort with him and return on the following morning.
Alfred agreed to do so; and two hours before it was dark they set off,
and as soon as they were on the opposite side of the brook they were
joined by Martin Super
said
Captain Sinclair to Alfred
observed Martin
said Alfred
replied Sinclair
said Martin
Captain Sinclair and Alfred continued on their way to the fort. They had
contracted a strong friendship, and were unreserved in their
communication with each other
said Captain Sinclair
replied Alfred
replied Alfred,
laughing
continued he
replied Captain
Sinclair
replied Alfred
The conversation was then changed, and in half an hour more they arrived
at the fort.

Alfred was welcomed at the fort by Colonel Forster, with whom he was a
great favorite. The Colonel could not refrain from expressing his
opinion, that Mr. Campbell and his family were in a position of some
danger, and lamenting that the female portion of the family, who had
been brought up with such very different prospects, should be so
situated. He even ventured to hint that if Mrs. Campbell and the two
Misses Percival would pass the winter in the fort he would make
arrangements to accommodate them. But Alfred at once replied, that he
was convinced no inducement would persuade his mother or cousins to
leave his father; they had shared his prosperity, and they would cling
to him in adversity; that they all were aware of what they would have to
risk before they came out, and his father preferred a life of honorable
independence attended with danger, to seeking the assistance of others
replied Alfred
replied Alfred
continued Alfred, laughing
replied the Colonel
replied Alfred
The following morning the sky was clear and the day brilliant. The sun
shone upon the dark, scarlet-tinged foliage of the oaks, and through the
transparent yellow leaves of the maple. A slight frost had appeared for
two or three mornings about a month back, and now they were enjoying
what was termed the Indian summer, which is a return of fair and rather
warm weather for a short time previous to the winter setting in.

The soldiers were busy carrying the hay down to the _bateaux_, and,
before noon, Alfred bade farewell to Colonel Forster and the other
officers of the fort, and, accompanied by Captain Sinclair, went down to
embark. All was ready, and Alfred stepped into the boat; Captain
Sinclair being on duty and not able to accompany him back
said Captain Sinclair
replied Alfred, as the boats pulled from the shore
After Alfred's return from the fort, a few days passed away without any
incident: Martin had paid a visit to Malachi Bone, who had promised that
he would be on the look-out and would give immediate information and
assistance in case of any hostile measures on the part of the Indians.
He told Martin, that in a few days he would discover what had taken
place and what might be looked forward to. When Martin returned with his
communication, Alfred was satisfied, and did not acquaint any body
except his brother Henry with the information which he had received from
Captain Sinclair.

The monotony of their life was, however, broken in upon by the arrival
of a corporal from the fort, who was the bearer of the first dispatches
which they had received since their arrival at the settlement. Letters,
yes letters, not only from Quebec but from England, were announced. The
whole house was in confusion, all crowding round Mr. Campbell while he
unsealed the large packet. First a bundle of English newspapers from the
Governor of Quebec -- these were laid aside; a letter from Mr. Campbell's
agent at Quebec -- this was on business and could wait his leisure; then
the letters from England -- two long, well-filled double letters from Miss
Paterson to Mary and Emma; another from Mr. Campbell's agent in England,
and a large one on foolscap with
directed to
Mr. Alfred Campbell. Each party seized upon their letters, and hastened
on one side with them. Mrs. Campbell being the only one who had no
correspondent, anxiously watched the countenance of Alfred, who, after a
hasty glance, cried out
Alfred received
the congratulations of the whole party, handed the official letter to
his mother, and then commenced the perusal of the one from Captain
Lumley. After a short silence, during which they were all occupied with
their correspondence, Mr. Campbell said
Alfred had read the letter from Captain Lumley, which made
him very thoughtful. The fact was, his promotion and the observations in
Captain Lumley's letter had brought back all his former regret at having
quitted the service, and he was very melancholy in consequence; but as
his cousins read their letters aloud, he gradually recovered his
spirits.

At last, all the letters were read, and then the newspapers were
distributed. No more work was done that day, and in the evening they all
sat round the kitchen fire and talked over the intelligence they had
received until long after their usual time of retiring to bed
said Mr. Campbell, the next
morning before they quitted their sleeping-room
replied Mr. Campbell
In the meantime, Mary and Emma had gone out as usual to milk the cows.
It was a beautiful clear day, but there was a bracing air which cheered
the spirits, and the sunshine was pleasantly warm in situations
sheltered from the winds; one of the few fine days just before the
rushing in of winter. They had milked their cows, and had just turned
them out again, when they both sat down with their pails before them on
a log, which was in front of Malachi's lodge, now used as a cow-house
said Emma, after a pause
replied Emma
replied Emma, laughing,
and rising from her seat
Emma's calling Juno to follow her, reminds me that I have not yet
introduced the dogs to my little readers, and as they will have to play
their parts in our history, I may as well do so at once. Captain
Sinclair, it may be remembered, had procured five dogs for Mr. Campbell
from the officers of the fort,-- two terriers, which were named Trim and
Snob; Trim was a small dog and kept in the house, but Snob was a very
powerful bull-terrier, and very savage; a fox-hound bitch, the one which
Emma had just called Juno; Bully, a very fine young bull-dog, and
Sancho, an old pointer. At night, these dogs were tied up: Juno in the
store-house; Bully and Snob at the door of the house within the
palisade; Trim in doors, and old Sancho at the lodge of Malachi Bone,
where the cows were put in at night. Mr. Campbell found it rather
expensive at first feeding these dogs, but as soon as Martin and his
companions brought home game, there was always plenty for them all. They
were all very sharp and high-couraged dogs, for they had been born in
the fort and had been brought up to hunting every kind of game
indiscriminately; and I need hardly add that they were excellent
watch-dogs, and considered by Mr. Campbell as a great protection. For
the next two days, the family remained rather unsettled; there was so
much news in the newspapers; so many recollections brought up by their
perusal; so much to talk about and discuss, that very little work was
done. The weather, however, was now becoming much colder, and, for the
last two days the sun had not shone. The sky was of one uniform, murky,
solemn gray; and every thing announced that the winter was close at
hand. Martin, who had been hunting, when he came home bid them prepare
for an immediate change in the weather, and his prediction was speedily
verified
It was on the Saturday evening, when they had all assembled round the
fire, for it was more cold than it had hitherto been, that the moaning
of the wind among the trees of the forest announced a gale of wind from
the northward
observed Martin
replied Alfred
said
Martin
said Henry
said Mrs. Campbell
inquired Mary Percival
said John, who was cleaning his rifle
replied
Martin
observed Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr. Campbell
During that night the gale increased to almost a hurricane; the trees of
the forest clashed and crackled, groaned and sawed their long arms
against each other, creating an unusual and almost appalling noise; the
wind howled round the palisades and fluttered the strips of bark on the
roof, and as they all lay in bed, they could not sleep from the noise
outside, and the increased feeling of cold. It was also the first trial
of this new house in severe weather, and some of the wakeful party were
anxiously watching the result. Toward the morning the storm abated, and
every thing was again quiet. In consequence of the restless night which
they had passed they were not so early as usual. Emma and Mary, when
they came out of their room, found Martin and Alfred up and very busy
with shovels; and, to their astonishment, they perceived that the snow
was at least three feet deep on the ground, and in some places had been
drifted up higher than their heads
cried Emma
observed Mary
observed Martin
said Emma
Martin and Alfred had only time to clear a path to the store-house. Mr.
Campbell and Henry returned with more shovels, and as soon as breakfast
was over, they commenced work. As for Mary and Emma going to milk the
cows, that was impossible. Martin undertook that task until they had
cleared a pathway to the hunter's lodge, in which the animals were shut
up every night.

By the advice of Martin, the snow next the palisades was piled up
against the palings like a wall, as high as they could reach or throw
it, by which means they got rid of the snow about the house, and at the
same time formed a barrier against the freezing winds which they had to
expect. All worked hard; Percival and John were of great use, and even
Mrs. Campbell and the girls assisted collecting the remainder of the
snow, and clearing it off the window-sills and other parts. By noon the
snow left off falling, the sky cleared up, and the sun shone bright,
although it gave out but little warmth.

After dinner they renewed their labors, and commenced clearing away a
path to the lodge, where the cows were locked in, and before nightfall
they had accomplished their task as far as the bridge over the stream,
which was about half-way. It had been a day of great fatigue, and they
were glad to retire to rest. Mrs. Campbell and the girls had put an
additional supply of blankets and skins upon the beds, for the cold was
now intense, and the thermometer stood far below the freezing point.

The following morning they resumed their task; the sky was still
unclouded, and the sun shone out clear and bright. By dinner-time the
path to the cow house had been completed; and the men then employed
themselves in carrying as much fire-wood as they could, before it was
dark, within the palisades
observed Alfred
observed Martin
replied John
said Martin
observed Mrs. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
replied John.

All the game in the larder having been consumed, they sat down to salt
pork and some of the fish which had been cured. The latter was
pronounced to be excellent
replied Martin
replied Mr. Campbell
said Henry, as they were sitting round
the kitchen fire, as usual in the evening
replied Martin
said Mr. Campbell
said Alfred, laughing
replied
Mrs. Campbell
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell,
as a melancholy howl was heard without
said Martin
inquired Mary Percival
The howl was repeated, when one or two of the dogs which had been
admitted into the house and were stretched before the fire, roused up
and growled
said Emma
said Alfred, going to her
replied Emma, shuddering as the howl
was repeated
said she, rallying her spirits
observed Mrs. Campbell
said
Mary Percival, in her usual quiet way.

&lsqb;LADY-MILKMAIDS
said Emma
said Mr. Campbell
said John
said Alfred
replied Alfred
They did retire to rest, but all
parties did not sleep very sound; the howling of one wolf was answered
by another; Emma and Mary embraced each other, and shuddered as they
heard the sounds, and it was long before they forgot their alarm and
were asleep
The next morning was bright and clear, and when Emma and Mary went out,
attended by Alfred, to go and milk the cows, although the cold was
intense, every thing looked so brilliant and sparkling in the sunshine
that they regained their spirits. The lake was still unfrozen, and its
waters, which were of an azure blue, contrasted with the whole of the
country covered with snow, and the spruce firs with their branches
loaded presented an alternate layer of pure white and of the darkest
green. Birds there were none to be seen or heard. All was quiet, so
quiet that as they stepped along the path which had been cleared away to
the cow-house, they almost started at the sound of their own voices,
which the atmosphere rendered more peculiarly sonorous and ringing.
Alfred had his rifle on his shoulder, and walked in front of his
cousins
said Alfred
replied Emma
They arrived at the cow-house without any adventure, let loose Sancho,
who had been tied up, as it was decided that the dog should remain at
home with the others, and proceded to milk the cows. Having finished
that task and supplied them with fodder, Mary Percival observed, as they
were retracing their steps
replied Alfred
replied Emma,
laughing
The remainder of the week was passed away in practicing upon the
snow-shoes by the males of the party, the women scarcely ever venturing
out of doors, as the cold was very severe. Mary and Emma were
accompanied by Alfred for the first three or four days; and after that,
notwithstanding that the howling of the wolves was heard every night,
they took courage when they found that the animals never made their
appearance by daylight, and went as before to milk the cows by
themselves. On the Saturday, they were in the hopes of seeing old
Malachi Bone, but he did not make his appearance, and John, who could
now get on very well in his snow-shoes, became very impatient. Alfred
and Martin were also very anxious to see the old man, that they might
ascertain if he had made any discoveries relative to the Indians.
Sunday, as usual, was a day of rest from labor; the services were read
by Mr. Campbell, and the evening passed in serious conversation. Mr.
Campbell, although usually in good spirits, was certainly not so on that
evening: whether it was that the severity of the winter which had set in
and the known long duration of it which they had to encounter had an
effect upon his spirits, he was melancholy as well as serious. He more
than once referred to the former residence when in England, which was a
very unusual thing for him to do, and by degrees the conversation was
turned in that direction, and, although no one said so, they all felt
what a change there was in their present position from that which they
had been forced to leave. Mrs. Campbell, who perceived that a gloom was
gathering over the whole party, made several remarks tending to
reconcile them to their present lot, and, after a time Mr. Campbell
observed
said Percival
replied Mr. Campbell
Mr. Campbell ceased speaking, and there was a pause for a minute or two
in the conversation, when Mary Percival said
said his wife
Mr. Campbell opened the Bible which lay before
him and read
After a short silence, Mrs. Campbell observed
continued Mr. Campbell
This conversation had a very strong effect upon the party, and when they
retired to rest, which they did shortly after, they laid their heads
upon their pillows not only with resignation, but with thankfulness for
the mercies which had been vouchsafed to them, and felt that in the
wilderness they were under the eye of a watchful and gracious
Providence
On the Monday morning Alfred and Martin went to the cow-house, and
slaughtered the bullock which they had obtained from the commandant of
the fort. When it was skinned it was cut up, and carried to the
storehouse, where it was hung up for their winter consumption.

As the party were sitting down to dinner, they were greeted by Captain
Sinclair and a young lieutenant of the garrison. It hardly need be said
that the whole family were delighted to see them. They had come overland
on their snow-shoes, and brought some partridges, or grouse, as they are
sometimes called, which they had shot on their way. Captain Sinclair had
obtained leave from the commandant to come over and see how the
Campbells were getting on. He had no news of any importance, as they had
had no recent communications with Quebec or Montreal; all was well at
the fort, and Colonel Forster had sent his compliments, and begged, if
he could be useful, that they would let him know. Captain Sinclair and
his friend sat down to dinner, and talked more than they ate, asking
questions about every thing
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Emma
replied
Captain Sinclair
said Mr. Campbell
said Emma, somewhat archly
cried Mary Percival
replied Alfred
said Mr. Campbell
During the day Captain Sinclair took Alfred aside to know if the old
hunter had obtained any information relative to the Indians. Alfred
replied that they expected him every day, but as yet had not received
any communication from him. Captain Sinclair stated that they were
equally ignorant at the fort as to what had been finally arranged, and
that Colonel Forster was in hopes that the hunter would by this time
have obtained some intelligence
replied Alfred
replied Captain Sinclair
The accession to their party made them all very lively, and the evening
passed away very agreeably. At night, Captain Sinclair and Mr. Gwynne
were ushered into the large bedroom, where all the younger male portion
of the family slept, and which, as we before stated, had two spare
bed-places.

The next morning, Captain Sinclair would have accompanied the Miss
Percivals on their milking expedition, but as his services were required
to haul up the fishing punt, he was obliged to go down, with all the
rest of the men, to assist; Percival and John were the only ones left at
home with Mrs. Campbell. John, after a time, having, as usual, rubbed
down his rifle, threw it on his shoulder, and, calling the dogs which
lay about, sallied forth for a walk, followed by the whole pack except
old Sancho, who invariably accompanied the girls to the cow-house.

Mary and Emma tripped over the new-beaten snow-path to the cow-house,
merry and cheerful, with their pails in their hands, Emma laughing at
Captain Sinclair's disappointment at not being permitted to accompany
them. They had just arrived at the cow-house, when old Sancho barked
furiously, and sprang to the side of the building behind them, and in a
moment afterward rolled down the snowheap which he had sprung over,
holding on and held fast by a large black wolf. The struggle was not
very long, and during the time that it lasted the girls were so
panic-struck, that they remained like statues within two yards of the
animals. Gradually the old dog was overpowered by the repeated snapping
bites of the wolf, yet he fought nobly to the last, when he dropped
under the feet of the wolf, his tongue hanging out, and bleeding
profusely and lifeless. As soon as his adversary was overpowered, the
enraged animal, with his feet upon the body of the dog, bristling his
hair and showing his powerful teeth, was evidently about to attack the
young women. Emma threw her arm around Mary's waist, advancing her body
so as to save her sister. Mary attempted the same, and then they
remained waiting in horror for the expected spring of the animal, when
of a sudden the other dogs came rushing forward, cheered on by John, and
flew upon the animal. Their united strength soon tore him down to the
ground, and John coming up, as the wolf defended himself against his new
assailants, put the muzzle of his rifle to the animal's head, and shot
it dead.

The two sisters had held up during the whole of this alarming struggle;
but as soon as they perceived the wolf was dead and that they were safe,
Mary could stand no longer, and sank down on her knees, supporting her
sister, who had become insensible.

If John showed gallantry in shooting the wolf, he certainly showed very
little toward his cousins. He looked at Mary, nodded his head toward the
wolf's body, and saying
shouldered his rifle, turned round
and walked back to the house.

On his return he found that the party had just come back from hauling up
the punt, and were waiting the return of the Miss Percivals to go to
breakfast
said Martin
replied John
said Alfred
replied John
said Mr. Campbell
replied John
said his father
replied John
replied John, wiping his rifle very coolly
cried Mr. Campbell, as Mrs. Campbell turned pale; and
Alfred, Captain Sinclair, Martin, and Henry, seizing their rifles,
darted out from the house, and ran with all speed in the direction of
the cow-house
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell
said John
cried Mrs. Campbell
replied John.

In the meantime the other party had gained the cow-house; and, to their
horror, beheld the wolf and dog dead, and the two young women lying on
the snow, close to the two animals; for Mary had fainted away shortly
after John had walked off. They rushed toward the bodies of the two
girls, and soon discovered that they were not hurt. In a short time they
were recovered, and were supported by the young men to the house.

As soon as they arrived, Mrs. Campbell took them into their room, that
they might rally their spirits, and in a quarter of an hour returned to
the party outside, who eagerly inquired how they were
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Martin
replied Alfred
replied Mr. Campbell
replied Martin
continued Martin
replied Mr.
Campbell
replied John, rather sulkily
said Captain Sinclair
continued Captain Sinclair,
holding his hand about as high as John's shoulder
said John
said Martin
replied Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
said John
replied Captain Sinclair
replied John
replied John, who was going out of the door
said Mrs. Campbell
replied John, walking away
observed Martin
So saying, Martin followed John
observed Captain Sinclair
said Alfred
replied Captain Sinclair
inquired Mrs. Campbell
The Misses Percival now made their appearance. Emma was very merry, but
Mary rather grave. Captain Sinclair, having shaken hands with them both,
said
replied Emma
said Mary
Percival
replied
Emma, laughing
In a few minutes dinner was on the table, and they all sat down without
waiting for Martin and John, who were still busy skinning the wolf
said Mr. Campbell, after they had
been about a quarter of an hour at table.

But he was mistaken; instead of Martin and John, Malachi Bone made his
appearance, and, to their surprise, accompanied by his young squaw, the
Strawberry Plant.

Every one rose to welcome them, and the Misses Percival went to their
little female acquaintance, and would have made her sit down with them,
but she refused and took her seat on the floor near the fire
said old Bone
said Mrs. Campbell, with surprise
Captain Sinclair and Alfred, who perceived that the old hunter had said
too much, were quite at a loss what to say. They did not like to
frighten Mrs. Campbell and the girls about the Indians, especially as
they had just been so much alarmed with the accident of the morning. At
last Alfred replied
continued Malachi
Mrs. Campbell and the girls were evidently not a little fluttered at
this fresh intimation of danger. Captain Sinclair perceived it, and
said
continued Captain
Sinclair, laughing
Malachi Bone would have responded, but Alfred pinched his arm; the old
man understood what was meant, and held his tongue; at last he said
replied Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
replied
Captain Sinclair
observed Mr. Campbell
Captain Sinclair then stated what he had before mentioned to Alfred, and
having so done, and pointed out that there was no occasion for alarm, he
requested Malachi Bone would say if he had any further information
said Captain Sinclair
said Mr. Campbell
said Captain Sinclair
said
Henry
said Henry
replied Captain Sinclair
said Malachi, with a grim smile
said Mrs. Campbell
said Captain Sinclair
said Malachi
replied Malachi
replied Alfred
Mrs. Campbell shortly related to Malachi the adventure of the wolf. The
old hunter listened in silence, and then gave a nod of approbation
said he.

The party then rose just as Martin and John made their appearance.
Captain Sinclair conversed with the Misses Percival, while the old
hunter spoke to the Strawberry Plant in her own dialect; the others
either went out or were busy in clearing the table, till Captain
Sinclair took his departure with John and Martin, each armed with a
rifle
observed Mr. Campbell, a little
before they retired to bed
The next morning, a little after daybreak, Martin and John made their
appearance, leading the magnificent dog which Captain Sinclair had given
to John. Like most large dogs, Oscar appeared to be very good-tempered,
and treated the snarling and angry looks of the other dogs with perfect
contempt
said Mr. Campbell, patting its head
observed Malachi
said the old hunter to John,
leading the dog outside of the door
said Malachi
John made no reply, and the hunter continued
John nodded his head in assent, and then went in-doors
said John, going up to his mother and cousins
said Mary
John shouldered his rifle, made a sign to Strawberry Plant, who rose,
and looking kindly at Mrs. Campbell and the girls, without speaking,
followed John out of the hut. Malachi certainly was not very polite, for
he walked off, in company with John and the squaw, without taking the
trouble to say
It must, however, be observed that he was in
conversation with Martin, who accompanied them on the way.

The winter had now become very severe. The thermometer was twenty
degrees below the freezing point, and the cold was so intense, that
every precaution was taken against it. More than once Percival, whose
business it was to bring in the firewood, was frost bitten, but as Mrs.
Campbell was very watchful, the remedy of cold snow was always
successfully applied. The howling of the wolves continued every night,
but they were now used to it, and the only effect was, when one came
more than usually close to the house, to make Oscar raise his head,
growl, listen awhile, and then lie down to sleep again. Oscar became
very fond of the girls, and was their invariable companion whenever they
left the house. Alfred, Martin and Henry went out almost daily on
hunting excursions; indeed, as there were no crops in the barn, they had
little else to do. Mr. Campbell remained at home with his wife and
nieces; occasionally, but not very often, Percival accompanied the
hunters; of Malachi and John, they saw but little; John returned about
every ten days, but although he adhered to his promise, his anxiety to
go back to Malachi was so very apparent, and he was so restless, that
Mrs. Campbell rather wished him to be away, than remain at home so much
against his will.

Thus passed away the time till the year closed in; confined as they were
by the severity of the weather, and having little or nothing to do, the
winter appeared longer and more tedious than it would have done had they
been settled longer, and had the crops to occupy their attention; for it
is in the winter that the Canadian farmer gets through all his thrashing
and other work connected with the farm, preparatory for the coming
spring. This being their first winter, they had, of course, no crops
gathered in, and were, therefore, in want of employment. Mrs. Campbell
and her nieces worked and read, and employed themselves in every way
that they could, but constantly shut up within doors, they could not
help feeling the monotony and _ennui_ of their situation. The young men
found occupation and amusement in the chase; they brought a variety of
animals and skins, and the evenings were generally devoted to a
narration of what occurred in the day during their hunting excursions,
but even these histories of the chase were at last heard with
indifference. It was the same theme only with variations, over and over
again, and there was no longer much excitement in listening
observed Emma to her sister,
as they were sitting at work
replied Mary
continued Emma, yawning
To do Emma justice, it was seldom that she indulged herself in such
lamentations, but the tedium was more than her high flow of spirits
could well bear. Mrs. Campbell made a point of arranging the household,
which gave her occupation, and Mary from natural disposition did not
feel the confinement as much as Emma did; whenever, therefore, she did
show symptoms of restlessness or was tempted to utter a complaint, they
reasoned with and soothed, but never reproached her.

The day after this conversation, Emma, to amuse herself, took a rifle
and went out with Percival. She fired several shots at a mark, and by
degrees acquired some dexterity; gradually she became fond of the
exercise, and not a day passed that she and Percival did not practice
for an hour or two, until at last Emma could fire with great precision.
Practice and a knowledge of the perfect use of your weapon gives
confidence, and this Emma did at last acquire. She challenged Alfred and
Henry to fire at the bull's eye with her, and whether by their gallantry
or her superior dexterity, she was declared victor. Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell smiled when Emma came in and narrated her success, and felt
glad that she had found something which afforded her amusement.

It happened that one evening the hunters were very late; it was a clear
moonlight night, but at eight o'clock they had not made their
appearance; Percival had opened the door to go out for some firewood
which had been piled within the palisades, and as it was later than the
usual hour for locking the palisade gates, Mr. Campbell had directed him
so to do. Emma, attracted by the beauty of the night, was at the door of
the house, when the howl of a wolf was heard close to them; the dogs
accustomed to it merely sprang on their feet, but did not leave the
kitchen fire; Emma went out, and looked through the palisades to see if
she could perceive the animal, and little Trim, the terrier, followed
her. Now Trim was so small, that he could creep between the palisades,
and as soon as he was close to them, perceiving the wolf, the courageous
little animal squeezed through them and flew toward it, barking as loud
as he could. Emma immediately ran in, took down her rifle and went out
again, as she knew that poor Trim would soon be devoured. The
supposition was correct: the wolf, instead of retreating, closed with
the little dog and seized it. Emma, who could now plainly perceive the
animal, which was about forty yards from her, took aim and fired, just
as poor Trim gave a loud yelp. Her aim was good, and the wolf and dog
lay side by side. Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, and Mary, hearing the report of
the rifle, ran out, and found Percival and Emma at the palisades behind
the house
said Emma
said Percival
The hunters were soon at the palisade door and admitted; they had no
game with them. Emma jeered them for coming back empty handed
replied Alfred
replied Emma
They went to the spot, and found the wolf was dead, and poor Trim dead
also by his side. They took in the body of the little dog, and left the
wolf till the morning, when Martin said he would skin it for Miss Emma
said Emma
Martin said it would be useless to return for the venison, as the wolves
had no doubt eaten it already; so they locked the palisade gate, and
went into the house.

Emma's adventure was the topic of the evening, and Emma herself was much
pleased at having accomplished such a feat
said Martin
said Mrs. Campbell.

&lsqb;FACING A WOLF
exclaimed Mrs.
Campbell
replied Martin
replied Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr. Campbell. "A man
in whatever position in life, if he is content, is certain to be happy.
How true are the words of the poet:--

                   'Man wants but little here below,
                    Nor wants that little long!'

Malachi Bone is a happier man than hundreds in England who live in
luxury. Let us profit, my dear children, by his example, and learn to be
content with what Heaven has bestowed upon us. But it is time to retire.
The wind has risen, and we shall have a blustering night. Henry, fetch
me the book
Alfred and Martin brought in the wolf which Emma had killed, but it was
frozen so hard that they could not skin it. Poor little Trim was also
carried in, but the ground was too hard frozen for them to bury the
body, so they put it into the snow until the spring, when a thaw would
take place. As for the wolf, they said nothing about it, but they
remained up when the rest of the family retired, and after the wolf had
been some time before the fire, they were able to take off the skin.

On the following morning, when the hunters went out, they were
particularly desired to shoot a wild turkey if they could, as the next
day was Christmas-day
said Alfred
said Emma, after the hunting
party had left
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
replied Emma, with
tears in her eyes
said Mr.
Campbell
replied Emma
Emma went up to Mr. Campbell and kissed him, and Mr. Campbell said
The hunters did not return till late, and when they appeared in sight,
Percival, who had descried them, came in and said that they were very
well loaded, and were bringing in their game slung upon a pole.

Mary and Emma went out of the door to meet their cousins. That there was
a heavy load carried on a pole between Martin and Alfred was certain,
but they could not distinguish what it consisted of. As the party
arrived at the palisade gates, however, they discovered that it was not
game, but a human being, who was carried on a sort of litter made of
boughs
said Mary
said Alfred, as he reached the door
Henry then went with his cousins into the house, and explained to them
that as they were in pursuit of the wild turkeys, Oscar had stopped
suddenly and commenced baying; that they went up to the dog, and, in a
bush, they found a poor Indian woman nearly frozen to death, and with a
dislocation of the ankle, so severe that her leg was terribly swelled,
and she could not move. Martin had spoken to her in the Indian tongue,
and she was so exhausted with cold and hunger that she could just tell
him that she belonged to a small party of Indians who had been some days
out hunting, and a long way from where they had built their winter
lodges; that she had fallen with the weight which she had carried, and
that her leg was so bad, she could not go on with them; that they had
taken her burden, and left her to follow them when she could
continued Alfred
said Mr. Campbell
replied Henry
said Alfred
replied Emma
In the meantime, Martin and Henry brought in the poor Indian, and laid
her down on the floor at some distance from the fire, for though she was
nearly dead with the cold, too sudden an exposure to heat would have
been almost equally fatal. Mr. Campbell examined her ankle, and with a
little assistance reduced the dislocation. He then bound up her leg and
bathed it with warm vinegar, as a first application. Mrs. Campbell and
the two girls chafed the poor creature's limbs till the circulation was
a little restored, and then they gave her something warm to drink. It
was proposed by Mrs. Campbell that they should make up a bed for her on
the floor of the kitchen. This was done in a corner near the fire-place,
and in about an hour their patient fell into a sound sleep
said Martin
replied Mr. Campbell
observed
Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr.
Campbell
replied Martin
observed Mr. Campbell
observed Alfred
continued he, laughing, and taking his seat at table.

Notwithstanding Alfred's observation, he contrived to make a very hearty
supper, and Emma laughed at his appetite after his professing that he
had so little inclination to eat
replied Alfred, laughing
said Mr. Campbell
observed Mrs. Campbell
observed Mary
observed Mr. Campbell
Christmas-day was indeed a change, as Emma had observed, from their
former Christmas; but although the frost was more than usually severe,
and the snow filled the air with its white flakes, and the north-east
wind howled through the leafless trees as they rasped their long arms
against each other, and the lake was one sheet of thick ice with a
covering of snow which the wind had in different places blown up into
hillocks, still they had a good roof over their heads, and a warm,
blazing fire on the hearth: and they had no domestic miseries, the worst
miseries of all to contend against, for they were a united family,
loving and beloved; showing mutual acts of kindness and mutual acts of
forbearance; proving how much better was
Moreover they were all
piously disposed; they were sensible that they owed a large debt of
gratitude to Heaven for all its daily mercies in providing them with
food and raiment, for warding off from them sickness and sorrow, and
giving them humble and contented hearts; and on this day, they felt how
little were all worldly considerations, compared with the hopes which
were held out to them through the great sacrifice which the goodness and
mercy of God had made for them and all the world. It was, therefore,
with cheerful yet subdued looks that they greeted each other when they
met previous to the morning prayers.

Mr. Campbell had already visited his patient and readjusted the bandage:
her ankle was better, but still very much swelled; the poor creature
made no complaints, she looked grateful for what was done and for the
kindness shown to her. They were all arrayed in their best Sunday
dresses, and as soon as prayers were over had just wished each other the
congratulations so general, so appropriate, and yet too often so
thoughtlessly given upon the anniversary, when Malachi Bone, his little
squaw the Strawberry, and John, entered the door of the hut, laden with
the sports of the forest, which they laid down in the corner of the
kitchen, and then saluted the party
said Emma, who had taken
the hand of the Strawberry.

The Indian girl smiled, and nodded her head
continued Emma
said Martin to Emma and Mary
Percival, who was by Emma's side, shaking hands with the Strawberry.

Mary colored up a little, and Emma replied
replied Martin
said Captain Sinclair, who with Mr. Gwynne,
his former companion, had entered the door of the house without being
observed; for the rest of the party were in conversation with Malachi
Bone and John
cried Emma
continued Emma, as she held out a hand to each
observed Captain Sinclair to Mary
said Malachi
replied Captain Sinclair
observed Mr. Campbell. Mr. Campbell then
related to Malachi Bone what had occurred on the day before; how the
hunting party had brought home the woman, whom he pointed to in the
corner where she had remained unnoticed by the visitors.

Malachi and the Strawberry went up to her; the Strawberry spoke to her
in the Indian tongue in a low voice, and the woman replied in the same,
while Malachi stood over them and listened
inquired Henry
replied Malachi
replied Malachi
said Mrs. Campbell
said Percival
said Emma
replied the old man
said Mary
said Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
Malachi made no reply; he was in deep thought, resting his chin upon his
hands, which held his rifle before him. Mrs. Campbell and the girls were
obliged to leave to prepare the dinner. John had sat down with the
Strawberry and the Indian woman, and was listening to them, for he now
understood the Chippeway tongue. Alfred, Sinclair, and the other
gentlemen of the party, were in conversation near the fire, when they
were requested by Mrs. Campbell to retreat to the sitting-room, that the
culinary operations might not be interfered with. Malachi Bone still
continued sitting where he was, in deep thought. Martin, who remained,
said to the Miss Percivals in a low voice
continued he, looking toward the Strawberry
replied Mary Percival
As soon as the dinner was at the fire, and could be left to the care of
Martin, Mrs. Campbell and the Misses Percival went into the
sitting-room. Mr. Campbell then read the morning service of the day,
Henry officiating as clerk in the responses. Old Malachi had joined the
party, and was profoundly attentive. As soon as the service was over, he
said
After a pause, Mary Percival said
said Mr. Campbell
replied the old man
said Mary
observed Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Malachi
said Mary
Dinner was now announced, and they all sat down, a happy party. Mr.
Campbell on this occasion produced two or three bottles of his small
store of wine, which he kept rather in case of illness than for any
other reason, for they had all been so long without wine or spirits,
that they cared little about it. Their dinner consisted of white fish
(salted), roast venison, boiled salt beef, roast turkey, and a
plum-pudding, and they were all very merry, although they were in the
woods of Canada, and not at Wexton Hall
said Mr. Campbell, after dinner
When we left off our narrative, our Canadian settlers were enjoying
themselves on Christmas day. On the following morning, Malachi Bone, the
Strawberry, and John, set off for their abode to the westward, and
Captain Sinclair and his companion went back to the fort. The Indian
woman was better, and the family resumed their usual occupations. We
must now briefly narrate a few events which occurred during the
remainder of the long winter. Malachi and John made their appearance,
accompanied by the Strawberry, almost every Sunday, and the old hunter
appeared gradually to become more reconciled to the society of others,
and sometimes would remain for a day or two over the Sunday. The Indian
woman, in the course of three weeks, was quite recovered, and signified,
through the Strawberry, her wish to leave, and join her tribe. To this,
of course, no objection was raised; and having received a supply of
provisions, she took her leave at the latter end of the month of
January.

February,-- March followed, and the winter still continued, but the sun
became more powerful, and the weather was not so severe. It was not till
the middle of April that the lake was clear of ice and the thaw
commenced, and then it was so rapid, that the little stream became quite
an impetuous torrent, and a large portion of the prairie land was under
water. A few days, however, sufficed to change the scene; the snow,
which had covered the ground for so many months, had all disappeared;
the birds, which had been mute or had migrated during the winter, now
made their appearance, and chirped and twittered round the house; the
pleasant green of the prairie was once more presented to their view,
and nature began to smile again. Other ten days passed, and the trees
had thrown out their leaves, and after one or two storms, the weather
became warm and the sky serene.

Great was the delight of the whole party at this change; and now the
cows were put out to their pasture, and Emma and Mary went milking as
before, no longer afraid of meeting with the wolves. The boat was
launched, and Percival and John went out to procure fish. Alfred, Henry,
and Martin were very busy picking up the cleared ground, to sow the
first crop. Mr. Campbell worked all day in the garden; the poultry were
noisy and bustling, and soon furnished an abundant supply of eggs; and
as now the hunting season was over for a time, Malachi and the
Strawberry were continually coming to visit them
exclaimed Emma, as she stopped at the
bridge and looked on the wide blue lake
replied Mary
replied Mary
After breakfast, Emma expressed her surprise to Alfred at Captain
Sinclair's not having made his appearance, and her fear that he was not
well. Alfred, at her request, promised to walk to the fort in the
afternoon, and ascertain how matters were.

John, who had not forgotten the advice of Malachi, brought in a basket
of fine trout from the stream almost every day, and the supply of fish
and eggs proved very acceptable, for the beef had all been consumed, and
the family would otherwise have been reduced to salt-pork.

Alfred, as he had promised Emma, set off for the fort, accompanied by
Martin. He returned the next morning, full of news. Captain Sinclair
was, as Emma had imagined, unable to come, having had a severe fall, by
which he had injured his knee, and was laid up for a time; he was,
however, in very good spirits, and the medical officer had promised that
he should be well again in a fortnight; he sent his kind regards to all
the family. The commandant also sent his compliments to Mr. Campbell,
and desired to acquaint him that, in a week or ten days, it was his
intention to send a boat to Montreal, and if Mr. Campbell had any
purchases to make, or wished to send any one by the opportunity, he
might do so, and the boat would bring back the articles he required.
They had no further communication with Quebec, but expected a runner to
come every day with the letters from England and newspapers; and
further, that he hoped soon to be able to pay his respects in person.

Such was the information brought by Alfred; Emma made many inquiries
relative to Captain Sinclair as Mary stood by, and Alfred laughed at her
extreme inquisitiveness. The proposition of the commandant relative to
the trip to Montreal was then discussed. Old Malachi had several
packages of furs to dispose of. Martin had five, Alfred three, and Henry
two; for, although we made no mention of it, on their hunting
excursions, whoever killed the animal, was entitled to the skin. The
packages of Malachi were, however, of some value, as he had many beaver
and other skins, while those of Martin and the others consisted chiefly
of deer-skins. The question was, whom to send down with them. Malachi
was not inclined to go, Martin could not well be spared, and, moreover,
would very probably get into some scrape if he went to Montreal; whereas
Henry and Alfred did not know any thing about the value of skins;
otherwise, Mr. Campbell, who wished to purchase flour and pork, besides
several other articles, would have preferred sending one of them. But
the difficulty was soon removed by old Malachi, who observed, that he
had made a valuation of his skins, and that the others could be valued
also before they were packed up; and that if not sold for what they
ought to fetch, or nearly so, they had better be brought back. Mr.
Campbell was satisfied with this arrangement, and Henry was appointed to
undertake the journey. Mr. Campbell made out his inventory of articles;
Mrs. Campbell added her list, and all was ready as soon as they received
notice that the boat was to leave. Martin did not appear at all annoyed
at not being selected for the expedition; since Malachi Bone had
informed them that the Strawberry was not his wife, as they had
supposed, Martin was continually by her side. She began to speak a few
words of English, and had become a great favorite with every body.

Mr. Campbell, as soon as he perceived that Malachi no longer avoided
them, thought it but his duty to offer him his land back again, but
Malachi would not consent to accept it. He said he did not want the
land, although perhaps, he might raise his lodge a little nearer to them
than it was; at present, things had better remain as they were; after
which Mr. Campbell did not renew the subject. Malachi soon acted upon
his remark, that perhaps he might raise his lodge a little nearer, for,
a few days afterward, he made his appearance with the Strawberry and
John, all three loaded with his household utensils, and in a very short
time he had erected another wigwam within sight of the house at the
western end of Mr. Campbell's prairie. This gave great satisfaction to
Mrs. Campbell, because John was now always near them; indeed, he no
longer slept in the lodge, but at the house, in the room with his
brothers. The major part of the day he passed at the lodge, or in
company with the old hunter; but, by this new arrangement, they
gradually became, as it were, one family; not a day passed that the
Strawberry did not come to their house and make herself useful,
assisting in every thing that she could, and rapidly learning what she
did not know.

One or two evenings after the message from the fort, Mrs. Campbell asked
Malachi some questions relative to the habits of the beaver, as she had
heard much of the sagacity of that animal
said Malachi
said Martin
replied Malachi
said Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr.
Campbell
replied Martin
observed Mr. Campbell
replied Malachi
said Mary
said Henry
said Emma
said Martin
observed Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell, rising
cried Percival
For two or three days, Mr. Campbell was very busy making out an
inventory of the articles which he required. His funds at Quebec were
rather low, but the communication which his agent had made to him of Mr.
D. Campbell's intention of paying for the green-house and hot-house
plants, made him feel very easy on that score; and he now determined to
procure a small flock of sheep, and one or two of the Canadian ponies
or galloways, as they would soon be required for the farm, as well as
two carts or light wagons used in the country. In the meantime, Alfred,
Martin, and Henry were very busy putting the seed in between the stumps
of the felled timber, merely hoeing up the earth and raking it in, which
was all that was required. The quantity of land cleared was about twelve
acres, half of which was sowed with oats, and the other with wheat; the
piece cleared on the other side of the stream by Malachi Bone, and
railed in, was sown with maize, or Indian corn. As soon as the seed was
in, they all set to putting up a high fence round the cleared land,
which was done with split rails made from the white cedar, which grew in
a swamp about half a mile distant, and which, it may be remembered, had
in a great measure been provided by the soldiers who had been lent to
assist them on their arrival. The piece of prairie land, on the side of
the stream next to the house, was put apart for an early crop of hay,
and as soon as they could, they intended to turn the cows into the bush,
that is, to feed in the forest, that they might obtain hay from the
other side, which had belonged to Malachi; but the prairie required to
be fenced in, and this was the job that they took in hand as soon as the
seeds were sown
observed Martin to Alfred
replied Alfred
replied Alfred with a sigh;
for at the moment he was thinking of Captain Lumley and his nautical
profession.

In the evening of the day on which this conversation took place, Malachi
Bone was requested to resume his observations upon the beavers
observed Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
replied
Malachi
observed Martin
observed Mr.
Campbell
replied Martin
observed Alfred
replied Malachi
said Malachi
observed Mr. Campbell
said
Mrs. Campbell
replied Martin
said Percival
said Martin
cried Percival
replied Martin
said the hunter
replied
Martin
said Emma
replied Emma,
laughing
said Malachi
said Emma
A notice arrived that the departure of the boat to Montreal would take
place on the next morning. When the boat came up, it brought Captain
Sinclair, to the great delight of the whole party, who had felt very
anxious about one with whom they had so long been intimate and who had
shown them so much kindness. His knee was almost well, and as soon as
the first interrogations were over, he made known to them that he had
obtained six weeks' leave of absence, and was about to proceed to
Quebec
cried Emma
said Captain Sinclair
but here Emma stopped; she was going to
say how much she wished that she was going also, but her uncle and aunt
were present, and, recollecting that it might pain them and induce them
to think that she was discontented, she added
said Henry
exclaimed Emma, who felt that she must appear to be very
foolish, but could not get out of her scrape
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Emma
said Mr. Campbell
replied Captain Sinclair
inquired Mr. Campbell
observed Emma
continued she,
gravely
replied Captain Sinclair
observed Mr. Campbell
replied Captain Sinclair
observed Mr. Campbell
continued Mr. Campbell to Captain Sinclair
said Emma
said Alfred, laughing.

As Henry had been in daily expectation of the summons, he was not long
in his preparations, and in a few minutes made his appearance,
accompanied by Mary Percival. They then sat down to dinner, not very
cheerful, for Captain Sinclair's unexpected departure had thrown a gloom
over them all; however, they rallied a little toward the close of the
meal, and Mr. Campbell produced one of his bottles of wine to drink
success and happiness to the travelers. It was then time to start.
Captain Sinclair and Henry shook hands with Mr. Campbell and the Miss
Percivals, and accompanied by the gentlemen of the party, walked down to
the beach
said Emma, after they were left alone
Mary sighed, but made no answer
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mary
replied Emma
said Mrs. Campbell
Mr. Campbell, Alfred, Percival, and Martin soon returned, for Captain
Sinclair was obliged to push off immediately, that he might return in
time to the fort, in obedience to his orders. Malachi and John had gone
out on a hunting expedition, and the Strawberry was at her own lodge.
The party that sat in the kitchen in the evening was, therefore, much
reduced, and the taking farewell of Captain Sinclair did not dispose
them to be very lively. A few words were exchanged now and then, but the
conversation drooped. Emma spoke of Captain Sinclair's expectations and
projects
said Mr. Campbell
said Alfred, after Mr. Campbell had finished speaking
said Mrs. Campbell
continued Alfred
replied Mr. Campbell
said Alfred
said Alfred
continued Mr.
Campbell
In two days Malachi and John returned, bringing with them the skins of
three bears which they had killed -- but at this period of the year the
animals were so thin and so poor, that their flesh was not worth
bringing home. Indeed, it was hardly worth while going out to hunt just
then, so they both remained much at home, either fishing in the lake, or
taking trout in the stream. Alfred and Martin were still occupied with
the farm; the seed had come up, and they were splitting rails for the
prairie fence. About a fortnight after Captain Sinclair's departure,
Colonel Forster came in a boat from the fort, to pay them a visit
said he
said Mr. Campbell
replied the Colonel
observed Mr. Campbell
replied the Colonel
replied the Colonel
said
Mrs. Campbell
said the Colonel,
laughing
The Colonel then entered into conversation with Mr. Campbell, relative
to his farm, and after many questions, he observed
Mr. Campbell returned the Colonel many thanks for his kindness, and of
course expressed himself willing to be guided by his advice. He stated
that he had funds not only sufficient to erect a mill, but also, if he
were permitted, to pay for the labor of any party of men which the
commandant would spare during the summer season
The Colonel remained for some time looking over the farm and conversing
with Mr. Campbell, and then took his leave.

In the meantime, Alfred and his cousins went out to walk; the weather
was now beautifully clear, and in the afternoon the heat was not too
oppressive. As they sauntered by the side of the stream, Mary said
observed Emma
replied Emma
observed Mary Percival
said Alfred, kissing his cousin
said Emma, tossing her
head as if affronted
replied Alfred
said
Mary, laughing
replied Emma
replied Alfred
said Emma
said Mary, as soon as he was out of hearing
replied Emma
replied Mary
Alfred then returned with the pails, and the conversation took another
turn.

A few days afterward, a corporal arrived from the fort, bringing letters
and newspapers; the first that they had received since the breaking up
of the winter. The whole family were in commotion as the intelligence
was proclaimed; Mary and Emma left the fowls which they were feeding;
Percival threw down the pail with which he was attending the pigs;
Alfred ran in from where he and Martin were busy splitting rails; all
crowded round Mr. Campbell as he opened the packet in which all the
letters and papers had been enveloped at the foot. The letters were few;
three from Miss Paterson, and two other friends in England, giving them
the English news; one to Alfred from Captain Lumley, inquiring after the
family, and telling him that he had mentioned his position to his
friends at the Board, and that there could be no call for his services
for the present; one from Mr. Campbell's English agent, informing him
that he had remitted the money paid by Mr. Douglas Campbell for the
plants, etc., to his agent at Quebec; and another from his Quebec agent,
advising the receipt of the money and inclosing a balance-sheet. The
letters were first read over, and then the newspapers were distributed,
and all of them were soon very busy and silent during the perusal.

After a while, Emma read out
said Mr. Campbell
replied Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mr.
Campbell
continued Mr. Campbell
exclaimed Emma
It was very nearly five weeks before Henry returned from his expedition
to Montreal. During this time, the Colonel had repeated his visit and
made arrangements with Mr. Campbell. A party of twenty soldiers had been
sent to work at felling timber and splitting rails, for whose services
Mr. Campbell paid as before. The winter house and palisade fence for the
sheep were put in hand, and great progress was made in a short time, now
that so many people were employed. They had also examined the stream for
some distance, to ascertain which would be the most eligible site for
the water-mill, and had selected one nearly half a mile from the shore
of the lake, and where there was a considerable fall, and the stream ran
with great rapidity. It was not, however, expected that the mill would
be erected until the following year, as it was necessary to have a
millwright and all the machinery from either Montreal or Quebec. It was
intended that the estimate of the expense should be given in, the
contract made, and the order given during the autumn, so that it might
be all ready for the spring of the next year. It was on a Monday morning
that Henry arrived from the fort, where he had staid the Sunday, having
reached it late on Saturday night. The _bateaux_, with the stock and
stores, he had left at the fort; they were to come round during the day,
but Henry's impatience to see the family would not allow him to wait. He
was, as may be supposed, joyfully received, and, as soon as the first
recognitions were over, he proceeded to acquaint his father with what he
had done. He had obtained from a Canadian farmer forty ewes of very fair
stock, although not any thing equal to the English; but the agent had
worked hard for him, and procured him twenty English sheep and two rams
of the best kind, to improve the breed. For the latter he had to pay
rather dear, but they were worth any money to Mr. Campbell, who was
quite delighted with the acquisition. In selecting the sheep, of course
Henry was obliged to depend on the agent and the parties he employed,
as he was no judge himself; but he had, upon his own judgment, purchased
two Canadian horses, for Henry had been long enough at Oxford to know
the points of a horse, and as they turned out, he had made a very good
bargain. He had also bought a sow and pigs of an improved breed, and all
the other commissions had been properly executed; the packages of skins
also realized the price which had been put on them. As it may be
supposed, he was full of news, talking about Montreal, the parties he
had been invited to and the people with whom he had become acquainted.
He had not forgotten to purchase some of the latest English publications
for his cousins, besides a few articles of millinery, which he thought
not too gay for their present position. He was still talking, and
probably would have gone on talking for hours longer, so many were the
questions which he had to reply to, when Martin came in and announced
the arrival of the _bateaux_ with the stores and cattle, upon which they
all went down to the beach to see them disembarked and brought up by the
soldiers, who were at work. The stores were carried up to the door of
the storehouse, and the sheep and horses were turned into the prairie
with the cows. A week's rations for the soldiers were also brought up
from the fort, and the men were very busy in the distribution, and
carrying them to the little temporary huts of boughs which they had
raised for their accommodation, during the time they worked for Mr.
Campbell. Before the evening set in every thing was arranged, and Henry
was again surrounded by the family and replying to their remaining
interrogatories. He told them that the Governor of Montreal had sent
them an invitation to pass the winter at Government-House, and promised
the young ladies that no wolf should venture to come near to them, and
that the aids-de-camp had requested the honor of their hands at the
first ball, which should be given after their arrival, at which they all
laughed heartily. In short, it appeared that nothing could equal the
kindness and hospitality which had been shown to him, and that there was
no doubt, if they chose to go there, that it would be equally extended
to the other members of the family.

There was a pause in the conversation, when Malachi addressed Mr.
Campbell
said Malachi
said Mr. Campbell, looking round for him, and perceiving that
he was not in the room
replied Malachi
said Emma
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
observed Mrs. Campbell
said Emma
said Mary
Alfred burst out into laughter
said
he
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
observed Mr. Campbell
replied Alfred
replied Malachi
Martin, who had remained outside the door and overheard all that passed,
now came in; the subject was again canvassed, and Martin returned his
thanks for the permission given to him
said Emma
replied Martin
said Mary
said Malachi
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Malachi
As the boat was continually going backward and forward between the fort
and the farm, Mr. Campbell wrote to the Colonel, stating what they
wished him to do, and the Colonel appointed that day week, on which he
would come and perform the ceremony. It was a little fete at the farm.
Mrs. Campbell and the Miss Percivals dressed themselves more than
usually smart, so did all the males of the establishment; a better
dinner than usual was prepared, as the Colonel and some of the officers
were to dine and spend the day with them. Martin was very gayly attired,
and in high spirits. The Strawberry had on a new robe of young deer
skin, and had a flower or two in her long black hair; she looked as she
was, very pretty and very modest, but not at all embarrassed. The
marriage ceremony was explained to her by Malachi, and she cheerfully
consented. Before noon the marriage took place, and an hour or two
afterward they sat down to a well-furnished table, and the whole party
were very merry, particularly as the Colonel, who was most unusually
gay, insisted upon the Strawberry sitting at the table, which she had
never done before. She acquitted herself, however, without
embarrassment, and smiled when they laughed, although she could
understand but little of what they said. Mr. Campbell opened two of his
bottles of wine to celebrate the day, and they had a very happy party;
the only people who were discontented were three or four of the soldiers
outside, who had wanted to marry the Strawberry themselves; but the
knowledge that the Colonel was there, effectually put a stop to any
thing like annoyance or disturbance on their part. At sunset, the
Colonel and officers departed for the fort, the family remained in the
house till past ten o'clock, by which time all the soldiers had gone to
bed. Mr. Campbell then read prayers, and offered up an additional one
for the happiness of the newly-married couple, after which they all
saluted the Strawberry and wished her good-night; she was then led to
the lodge by Martin, accompanied by Alfred, Henry, Malachi, Percival,
and John, who all went home with them as a guard from any interruption
on the part of the disappointed suitors
observed Emma to Mary, a
few mornings after the celebration of the marriage
replied Mary
The scene was indeed cheerful and lively. The prairie on one side of the
stream waved its high grass to the summer breeze; on the other, the
cows, horses and sheep were grazing in every direction. The lake in the
distance was calm and unruffled; the birds were singing and chirping
merrily in the woods; near the house the bright green of the herbage was
studded with the soldiers, dressed in white, employed in various ways;
the corn waved its yellow ears between the dark stumps of the trees in
the cleared land, and the smoke from the chimney of the house mounted
straight up in a column to the sky; the grunting of the pigs and the
cackling of the fowls, and the occasional bleating of the calves,
responded to by the lowing of the cows, gave life and animation to the
picture. At a short distance from the shore the punt was floating on the
still waters. John and Malachi were very busy fishing; the dogs were
lying down by the palisades, all except Oscar, who, as usual, attended
upon his young mistresses; and under the shade of a large tree, at a
little distance from the house, were Mr. Campbell and Percival, the
former reading while the other was conning over his lesson
said Emma
replied Emma
replied Mary
replied Alfred, taking off
his hat and fanning himself
replied Emma, laughing
Emma clapped her hands and laughed
said Mary
replied Emma, laughing
said Mary
replied Mary
replied Alfred
replied Emma
The soldiers had now been at work for more than two months, a large
portion of the wood had been felled and cleared away. With what had been
cleared by Alfred and Martin and Henry the year before, they had now
more than forty acres of corn land. The rails for the snake-fence had
also been split, and the fence was almost complete round the whole of
the prairie and cleared land, when it was time for the grass to be cut
down and the hay made and gathered up. This had scarcely been finished
when the corn was ready for the sickle and gathered; in a barn had been
raised close to the sheep-fold as well as the lodge for Malachi, Martin,
and his wife. For six weeks all was bustle and hard work, but the
weather was fine, and every thing was got in safe. The services of the
soldiers were now no longer required, and Mr. Campbell having settled
his accounts, they returned to the fort
said Henry to Alfred, as he cast his eyes over the
buildings, the stacks of corn and hay, and the prairie stocked with
cattle
replied Alfred
replied
Henry
replied
Alfred
replied Henry
replied Henry
Another fortnight passed away when an incident occurred which created
some uneasiness. Mr. Campbell was busy with Martin and Alfred clearing
out the store-room and arranging the stores. Many of the cases and
packages had been opened to be examined and aired, and they were busily
employed, when, turning round, Mr. Campbell, to his great surprise,
beheld an Indian by his side, who was earnestly contemplating the
various packages of blankets, etc., and cases of powder, shot, and other
articles, which were opened around him
exclaimed Mr. Campbell, starting.

Martin and Alfred, who had their backs to him at the time of Mr.
Campbell's exclamation, turned round and beheld the Indian. He was an
elderly man, very tall and muscular, dressed in leggins and deer-skin
coat, a war eagle's feather, fixed by a fillet, on his head, and a
profusion of copper and brass medals and trinkets round his neck. His
face was not painted, with the exception of two black circles round his
eyes. His head was shaved, and one long scalp-lock hung behind him. He
had a tomahawk and a knife in his belt and a rifle upon his arm. Martin
advanced to the Indian and looked earnestly at him
said Martin
Martin then spoke to him in the Indian tongue. The Indian merely gave an
"ugh" in reply
observed Martin
Alfred went to the house for Malachi; in the meantime the Indian
remained motionless, with his eyes fixed upon different articles exposed
to view
observed Martin
Just as he had finished his remark, Alfred returned with Malachi.
Malachi looked at the Indian and spoke to him.

The Indian now replied in the Indian language
said Malachi
continued Malachi
said Mr. Campbell
replied Malachi
observed Alfred
said Malachi
Malachi now addressed the Indian for some time; the only reply was an
said Mr. Campbell
They did as Malachi requested, and the Indian, after waiting a short
time, turned round on his heel, and walked away
observed Malachi, as he
watched him departing
said Mr. Campbell
said Martin
replied Malachi
It so happened that the Indian was not seen by Mrs. Campbell or any of
them in the house, either upon his arrival or departure; and when Mr.
Campbell and the others returned to the house, they found that no one
there had any idea of such a visit having been paid. The secret was
kept, but it occasioned a great deal of anxiety for some days. At last
the alarm of Mr. Campbell gradually subsided. Malachi had gone out with
John, and had discovered that all the Indians had come down near to
them, to meet in council, and that there were many other parties of them
in the woods. But although the visit of the Angry Snake might have been
partly accidental, still Malachi was convinced that there was every
prospect of his paying them another visit, if he could obtain a
sufficient number to join him, so that he might obtain by force the
articles he had seen and so much coveted
Mr. Campbell acceded to the offer made by the commandant of the fort,
and purchased of him, at a moderate price, eighteen oxen, which were all
that remained of the stock at the fort, except the cows. He also took
six weaning calves to bring up. The cattle were now turned into the bush
to feed, that they might obtain some after-grass from that portion of
the prairie on which they had been feeding. The summer passed quickly
away, for they all had plenty of employment. They fished every day in
the lake, and salted what they did not eat, for winter provision. Martin
now was a great part of his time in the woods, looking after the cattle,
and Malachi occasionally accompanied him, but was oftener out hunting
with John, and always returned with game. They brought in a good many
bear-skins, and sometimes the flesh, which, although approved of by
Malachi and Martin, was not much admired by the rest. As soon as the
after-grass had been gathered in, there was not so much to do. Henry and
Mr. Campbell, with Percival, were quite sufficient to look after the
stock, and as the leaves began to change, the cattle were driven in from
the woods, and pastured on the prairie. Every thing went on in order;
one day was the counterpart of another. Alfred and Henry threshed out
the corn, in the shed, or rather open barn, which had been put up by the
soldiers in the sheep-fold, and piled up the straw for winter-fodder for
the cattle. The oats and wheat were taken into the store-house. Martin's
wife could now understand English, and spoke it a little. She was very
useful, assisting Mrs. Campbell and her nieces in the house, and
attending the stock. They had brought up a large number of chickens, and
had disposed of a great many to the Colonel and officers of the fort.
Their pigs also had multiplied exceedingly, and many had been put up to
fatten, ready to be killed and salted down. The time for that
occupation was now come, and they were very busy curing their meat; they
had also put up a small shed for smoking their bacon and hams. Already
they were surrounded with comfort and plenty, and felt grateful to
Heaven that they had been so favored.

The autumn had now advanced, and their routine of daily duty was seldom
interrupted; now and then a visit was paid them from the fort by one or
other of the officers or the commandant. The Indians had held their
council, but the English agent was present, and the supply of blankets
and other articles sent to the chiefs for distribution had the effect of
removing all animosity. It is true that the Angry Snake and one or two
more made very violent speeches, but they were overruled. The calumet of
peace had been presented and smoked, and all danger appeared to be over
from that quarter. Malachi had gone to the council, and was well
received. He had been permitted to speak also as an English agent, and
his words were not without effect. Thus every thing wore the appearance
of peace and prosperity, when an event occurred which we shall now
relate.

What is termed the Indian summer had commenced, during which there is a
kind of haze in the atmosphere. One morning, a little before dawn, Mary
and Emma, who happened to be up first, went out to milk the cows, when
they observed that the haze was much thicker than usual. They had been
expecting the equinoctial gales, which were very late this year, and
Mary observed that she foresaw they were coming on, as the sky wore
every appearance of wind; yet still there was but a light air, and
hardly perceptible at the time. In a moment after they had gone out, and
were taking up their pails, Strawberry came to them from her own lodge,
and they pointed to the gloom and haze in the air. She turned round, as
if to catch the wind, and snuffed for a little while; at last she said
Alfred and the others soon joined them, and
having been rallied by Emma at their being so late, they also observed
the unusual appearance of the sky. Martin corroborated the assertion of
the Strawberry, that there was fire in the woods. Malachi and John had
not returned that night from a hunting expedition, but shortly after
daylight they made their appearance; they had seen the fire in the
distance, and said that it was to northward and eastward, and extended
many miles; that they had been induced to leave the chase and come home
in consequence. During the remainder of the day, there was little or no
wind, but the gloom and smell of fire increased rapidly. At night the
breeze sprang up and soon increased to a gale from the north-east, the
direction in which the fire had been seen. Malachi and Martin were up
several times in the night, for they knew that if the wind continued in
that quarter, without any rain, there would be danger; still the fire
was at a great distance, but in the morning the wind blew almost a
hurricane, and before twelve o'clock on the next day, the smoke was
borne down upon them, and carried away in masses over the lake
said Alfred
But the wind did not shift, and the rain did not descend, and before the
evening set in, the fire was within two miles of them, and distant
roaring rent the air; the heat and smoke became more oppressive, and the
party were under great alarm.

As the sun set, the wind became even more violent, and now the flames
were distinctly to be seen, and the whole air was filled with myriads of
sparks. The fire bore down upon them with resistless fury, and soon the
atmosphere was so oppressive, that they could scarcely breathe; the
cattle galloped down to the lake, their tails in the air, and lowing
with fear. There they remained, knee-deep in the water, and huddled
together
said Mr. Campbell
replied Malachi.

The flames were now but a short distance from the edge of the forest;
they threw themselves up into the air in high columns; then, borne down
by the wind, burst through the boughs of the forest, scorching here and
there on the way the trunks of the large trees; while such a torrent of
sparks and ignited cinders was poured down upon the prairie, that, added
to the suffocating masses of smoke, it was impossible to remain there
any longer
said Malachi
There was, indeed, no time to be lost. Mr. Campbell took his wife by the
arm; Henry led the girls, for the smoke was so thick that they could not
see the way. Percival and Strawberry followed. Alfred and Martin had
already gone down to get the boat ready. In a few minutes they were in
the boat, and pushed off from the shore. The boat was crowded, but,
being flat-bottom, she bore the load well. They pulled out about half a
mile into the lake, before they found themselves in a less oppressive
atmosphere. Not a word was spoken until Martin and Alfred had stopped
rowing
said Mrs. Campbell, who, now
that they were clear of the smoke, discovered that these were not in the
boat
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell, after a pause
Another pause ensued; at last the silence was broken by Emma
Mrs. Campbell, whose hand was on that of her husband, squeezed it in
silence. It was the commencement of the destruction of their whole
property -- all their labors and efforts had been thrown away. The winter
was coming on, and they would be houseless -- what would become of them!

All this passed in her mind, but she did not speak.

At this moment the flames of the fire rose up straight to the sky.
Martin perceived it, and jumped up on his feet
said Alfred
replied Martin, and continued holding up his hand
Martin was correct in his observation; the wind had lulled for a moment,
and he had felt the drops of rain. This pause continued for about three
or four minutes, during which the cow-house burned furiously, but the
ashes and sparks were no longer hurled down on the prairie; then
suddenly the wind shifted to the south-east, with such torrents of rain
as almost to blind them. So violent was the gust, that even the punt
careened to it; but Alfred pulled its head round smartly, and put it
before the wind. The gale was now equally strong from the quarter to
which it had changed; the lake became agitated and covered with white
foam, and before the punt reached the shore again, which it did in a few
minutes, the water washed over its two sides, and they were in danger of
swamping. Alfred directed them all to sit still, and raising the blades
of the oars up into the air, the punt was dashed furiously through the
waves, till it grounded on the beach.

Martin and Alfred jumped out into the water and hauled the punt further
before they disembarked; the rain still poured down in torrents, and
they were wet to the skin; as they landed, they were met by Malachi and
John
exclaimed Malachi
said Mr. Campbell
The party walked back to the house, and as soon as they had entered, Mr.
Campbell kneeled down and thanked Heaven for their miraculous
preservation. All joined heartily in the prayer, and, after they had
waited up a few minutes, by which time they were satisfied that the
flames were fast extinguishing and they had nothing more to fear, they
took off their wet clothes, and retired to bed.

The next morning they rose early, for all were anxious to ascertain the
mischief which had been occasioned by the fire. The cow-house, on the
opposite side of the stream, was the only part of the premises which had
severely suffered; the walls were standing, but the roof was burned. On
the side of the stream where the house stood, the rails and many
portions of the buildings were actually charred, and, had it not been
for the providential change of the wind and the falling of the rain,
must in a few minutes have been destroyed. The prairie was covered with
cinders, and the grass was burned and withered. The forest on the other
side of the stream, to a great extent, was burned down; some of the
largest trees still remained, throwing out their blackened arms, now
leafless and branchless, to the sky, but they were never to throw forth
a branch or leaf again. It was a melancholy and desolate picture, and
rendered still more so by the heavy rain which still continued to pour
down without intermission.

As they were surveying the scene, Malachi and Martin came to them
said Martin
asked Mr. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
observed Malachi
said Mary
replied Malachi
The danger that they had escaped made a serious impression on the whole
party, and the following day, being Sunday, Mr. Campbell did not forget
to offer up a prayer of thankfulness for their preservation.

The roof of the cow-house was soon repaired by Alfred and Martin, and
the Indian summer passed away without any further adventure.

The day after the fire, a dispatch arrived from the fort to ascertain
their welfare, and the Colonel and officers were greatly rejoiced to
learn that comparatively so little damage had been done, for they
expected to find that the family had been burned out, and had made
arrangements at the fort to receive them.

Gradually the weather became cold and the fires were lighted, and a
month after the evil we have described, the winter again set in
Once more was the ground covered with snow to the depth of three feet.
The cattle were littered down inside the inclosure of palisades round
the cow-house; the sheep were driven into the inclosed sheep-fold, and
the horses were put into a portion of the barn in the sheep-fold which
had been parted off for them. All was made secure, and every preparation
was made for the long winter. Although there had been a fall of snow,
the severe frost had not yet come on. It did, however, in about a
fortnight afterward, and then, according to the wishes of the Colonel,
six oxen were killed for the use of the fort, and taken there by the
horses on a sledge; this was the last task that they had to fulfill, and
then Alfred bade adieu to the officers of the fort, as they did not
expect to meet again till the winter was over. Having experienced one
winter, they were more fully prepared for the second; and as Malachi,
the Strawberry and John were now regular inmates of the house, for they
did not keep a separate table, there was a greater feeling of security,
and the monotony and dreariness were not so great as in the preceding
winter: moreover, every thing was now in its place, and they had more
to attend to,-- two circumstances which greatly contributed to relieve
the _ennui_ arising from continual confinement. The hunting parties went
out as usual; only Henry, and occasionally Alfred, remained at home to
attend to the stock, and to perform other offices which the increase of
their establishment required. The new books brought by Henry from
Montreal, and which by common consent had been laid aside for the
winter's evenings, were now a great source of amusement, as Mr. Campbell
read aloud a portion of them every evening. Time passed away quickly, as
it always does when there is a regular routine of duties and employment,
and Christmas came before they were aware of its approach.

It was a great comfort to Mrs. Campbell that she now always had John at
home, except when he was out hunting, and on that score she had long
dismissed all anxiety, as she had full confidence in Malachi; but
latterly Malachi and John seldom went out alone; indeed, the old man
appeared to like being in company, and his misanthropy had wholly
disappeared. He now invariably spent his evenings with the family
assembled round the kitchen fire, and had become much more fond of
hearing his own voice. John did not so much admire these evening
parties. He cared nothing for new books, or indeed any books. He would
amuse himself making moccasins, or working porcupine quills with the
Strawberry at one corner of the fire, and the others might talk or read,
it was all the same, John never said a word or appeared to pay the least
attention to what was said. His father occasionally tried to make him
learn something, but it was useless. He would remain for hours with his
book before him, but his mind was elsewhere. Mr. Campbell, therefore,
gave up the attempt for the present, indulging the hope that when John
was older, he would be more aware of the advantages of education, and
would become more attentive. At present, it was only inflicting pain on
the boy without any advantage being gained. But John did not always sit
by the kitchen fire. The wolves were much more numerous than in the
preceding winter, having been attracted by the sheep which were within
the palisade, and every night the howling was incessant. The howl of a
wolf was sufficient to make John seize his rifle and leave the house,
and he would remain in the snow for hours till one came sufficiently
near for him to fire, and he had already killed several when a
circumstance occurred which was the cause of great uneasiness.

John was out one evening as usual, crouched down within the palisades,
and watching for the wolves. It was a bright starry night, but there was
no moon, when he perceived one of the animals crawling along almost on
its belly, close to the door of the palisade which surrounded the house.
This surprised him, as generally speaking, the animals prowled round the
palisade which encircled the sheep-fold, or else close to the pig-sties
which were at the opposite side from the entrance door. John leveled his
rifle and fired, when to his astonishment, the wolf appeared to spring
up in the air on his hind legs, then fall down and roll away. The key of
the palisade door was always kept within, and John determined to go in
and fetch it, that he might ascertain whether he had killed the animal
or not. When he entered, Malachi said
replied John
said Mr. Campbell
replied John
said Malachi
replied John; who then explained what
had passed
replied Malachi
Mrs. Campbell and the girls were much alarmed at this event, and it was
with difficulty that they were persuaded to retire to rest
said Malachi, as soon as
Mrs. Campbell and her nieces had left the room
We have before observed that the lodge of Malachi, Martin, and his wife,
was built within the palisade of the sheep-fold, and that there was a
passage from the palisade round the house to that which surrounded the
sheep-fold, which passage had also a palisade on each side of it
said Alfred
said John
said Malachi
said Mr. Campbell
said Alfred
After a few minutes' more conversation, Mr. Campbell, Henry, and
Percival retired, leaving the others to watch. Alfred walked home with
Malachi and his party to see if all was right at the sheep-fold, and
then returned.

The night passed without any further disturbance except the howling of
the wolves, to which they were accustomed.

The next morning, at daybreak, Malachi and Martin came to the house,
and, with John and Alfred, they opened the palisade gate, and went out
to survey the spot where John had fired
said Malachi
continued Malachi, as he passed by a mound of snow
observed Martin
They pursued the track till they arrived at the forest, and then,
satisfied by the marks on the snow that the wounded man had been carried
away, they returned to the house, when they found the rest of the family
dressed and in the kitchen. Alfred showed them the skin of the wolf, and
informed them of what they had discovered
observed Mrs. Campbell
said Alfred
It was some time before the alarm occasioned by this event subsided in
the mind of Mrs. Campbell and her nieces; Mr. Campbell also thought much
about it, and betrayed occasional anxiety. The parties went out hunting
as before, but those at home now felt anxious till their return from the
chase. Time, however, and not hearing any thing more of the Indians,
gradually revived their courage, and before the winter was half over
they thought little about it. Indeed, it had been ascertained by Malachi
from another band of Indians which he fell in with near a small lake
where they were trapping beaver, that the Angry Snake was not in that
part of the country, but had gone with his band to the westward at the
commencement of the new year. This satisfied them that the enemy had
left immediately after the attempt which he had made to reconnoiter the
premises.

The hunting parties, therefore, as we said, continued as before; indeed,
they were necessary for the supply of so many mouths. Percival, who had
grown very much since his residence in Canada, was very anxious to be
permitted to join them, which he never had been during the former
winter. This was very natural. He saw his younger brother go out almost
daily, and seldom return without having been successful; indeed, John
was, next to Malachi, the best shot of the party. It was, therefore,
very annoying to Percival that he should always be detained at home
doing all the drudgery of the house, such as feeding the pigs, cleaning
knives, and other menial work, while his younger brother was doing the
duty of a man. To Percival's repeated entreaties, objections were
constantly raised by his mother: they could not spare him, he was not
accustomed to walk in snow-shoes. Mr Campbell observed that Percival
became dissatisfied and unhappy, and Alfred took his part and pleaded
for him. Alfred observed very truly, that the Strawberry could
occasionally do Percival's work, and that if it could be avoided, he
should not be cooped up at home in the way that he was; and, Mr.
Campbell agreeing with Alfred, Mrs. Campbell very reluctantly gave her
consent to his occasionally going out
said Mary
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Emma
said Mrs. Campbell
said Mary
The next day the hunting party went out, and Percival, to his great
delight, was permitted to accompany it. As they had a long way to go,
for they had selected the hunting ground, they set off early in the
morning, before daylight, Mr. Campbell having particularly requested
that they would not return home late
The party had proceeded many miles before they arrived at the spot where
Malachi thought that they would fall in with some venison, which was the
principal game that they sought. It was not till near ten o'clock in the
morning that they stood on the ground which had been selected for the
sport. It was an open part of the forest, and the snow lay in large
drifts, but here and there on the hill-sides the grass was nearly bare,
and the deer were able, by scraping with their feet, to obtain some
food. They were all pretty well close together when they arrived.
Percival and Henry were about a quarter of a mile behind, for Percival
was not used to the snow-shoes, and did not get on so well as the
others. Malachi and the rest with him halted, that Henry and Percival
might come up with them, and then, after they had recovered their breath
a little, he said
The whole party did as Malachi directed, and for more than an hour they
walked through the wood, among the thickest of the trees, that they
might not be seen by the animals. At last they arrived at the spot which
Malachi desired, and then they changed their course eastward toward the
more open ground, where they expected to find the deer.

As they entered upon the open ground, they moved forward crouched to the
ground, Malachi and Martin in the advance. When in the hollows, they
all collected together, but on ascending a swell of the land, it was
either Malachi or Martin who first crept up, and, looking over the
summit, gave notice to the others to come forward. This was continually
repeated for three or four miles, when Martin having raised his head
just above a swell, made a signal to those who were below that the deer
were in sight. After a moment or two reconnoitering, he went down and
informed them that there were twelve or thirteen head of deer scraping
up the snow about one hundred yards ahead of them upon another swell of
the land; but that they appeared to be alarmed and anxious, as if they
had an idea of danger being near.

Malachi then again crawled up to make his observations, and returned
said he
They waited about ten minutes, till the animals appeared more settled,
and then, by altering their position behind the swell, gained about
twenty-five yards of distance. Malachi told each party which animal to
aim at, and they fired nearly simultaneously. Three of the beasts fell,
two others were wounded, the rest of the herd bounded off like the wind.
They all rose from behind the swell, and ran forward to their prey.
Alfred had fired at a fine buck which stood apart from the rest, and
somewhat further off; it was evident that the animal was badly wounded,
and Alfred had marked the thicket into which it had floundered; but the
other deer which was wounded was evidently slightly hurt, and there was
little chance of obtaining it, as it bounded away after the rest of the
herd. They all ran up to where the animals lay dead, and as soon as they
had reloaded their rifles, Alfred and Martin went on the track of the
one that was badly wounded. They had forced their way through the
thicket for some fifty yards, guided by the track of the animal, when
they started back at the loud growl of some beast. Alfred, who was in
advance, perceived that a puma (catamount, or painter, as it is usually
termed) had taken possession of the deer, and was lying over the
carcass. He leveled his rifle and fired; the beast, although badly
wounded, immediately sprang at him and seized him by the shoulder.
Alfred was sinking under the animal's weight and from the pain he was
suffering, when Martin came to his rescue, and put his rifle ball
through the head of the beast, which fell dead
said Martin
replied Alfred
Malachi and the others now came up, and perceived what had taken place.
Alfred had sunk down and was sitting on the ground by the side of the
dead animals
exclaimed Malachi
replied Alfred, faintly.

Malachi and Martin, without saying another word, stripped off Alfred's
hunting-coat, and then discovered that he had received a very bad wound
in the shoulder from the teeth of the beast, and that his side was also
torn by the animal's claws
said Malachi
John and Percival both hastened in search of water, while Malachi and
Martin and Henry tore Alfred's shirt into strips and bound up the
wounds, so as to stop in a great measure the flow of blood. As soon as
this was done and he had drunk the water brought to him in John's hat,
Alfred felt revived
said he
replied Malachi
said Alfred
replied Alfred
In the course of ten minutes Malachi and John had skinned the puma, and
Martin made his appearance with the haunches of two of the deer, which,
he said, was as much as they well could carry, and they all set off on
their return home.

Alfred had not proceeded far when he found himself in great pain, the
walking upon snow-shoes requiring so much motion as to open the wounds
and make them bleed again; but Malachi gave him his assistance, and
having procured him some more water they continued their route.

After a time the wounds became more stiff, and Alfred appeared to be
more oppressed by the pain. They proceeded, however, as fast as they
could, and at nightfall they were not far from home. But Alfred moved
with great difficulty; he had become very faint, so much so, that Martin
requested John would put down the venison and hasten before them to the
house to request Mr. Campbell to send some brandy or other cordial to
support Alfred, who was scarcely able to move on from weakness and loss
of blood. As they were not more than a mile from the house, John was
soon there, and hastening in at the door, he gave his message in
presence of Mrs. Campbell and his cousins, who were in a state of great
distress at the intelligence. Mr. Campbell went to his room for the
spirits, and as soon as he brought it out Emma seized her bonnet, and
said that she would accompany John.

Mr. and Mrs. Campbell had no time to raise any objection, if they were
inclined, for Emma was out of the door in a moment, with John at her
heels. But Emma quite forgot that she had no snow shoes, and before she
had gone half the distance she found herself as much fatigued as if she
had walked miles; and she sank deeper and deeper in the snow every step
that she advanced. At last they arrived, and found the party: Alfred was
lying insensible on the snow, and the others making a litter of branches
that they might carry him to the house.

A little brandy poured down his throat brought Alfred to his senses; and
as he opened his eyes, he perceived Emma hanging over him
said he, attempting to rise
replied Alfred
By this time the litter was prepared, and Alfred placed on it. Malachi,
Henry, Martin and John took it up
said Emma
replied John
They carried Alfred to the house, where Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and Mary
were waiting at the door in great anxiety; poor Emma was quite knocked
up by the time that they arrived, and went into her own room.

Alfred was laid on his bed, and his father then examined his wounds,
which he considered very dangerous, from the great laceration of the
flesh. Mr. Campbell dressed them, and then they left Alfred to the
repose which he so much required. The state of Alfred so occupied their
minds and their attention, that nothing and nobody else was thought of
for the first hour. Emma, too, had been taken very ill soon after she
came in, and required the attention of Mrs. Campbell and Mary. It was
not until they were about to sit down to supper that Mr. Campbell said
was the question anxiously uttered by all
the party who had been hunting
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell, starting up
said John
Malachi and Martin ran out of doors in consternation; they knew the
danger, for the snow was now falling in such heavy flakes that it was
impossible to see or direct their steps two yards in any direction
said Malachi to Martin
said Martin
replied Malachi
observed Martin
replied Malachi
There was much good sense and knowledge of the human heart in the
observation of Malachi, who, although he was aware that all search would
be useless, could not resolve to destroy at once all hope in the mind of
the afflicted and anxious mother.

They went in, and found Mrs. Campbell weeping bitterly, supported by her
husband and Mary. They stated that they were going to search for the
boy, and bring him home if they could, and, taking three or four pine
torches, one of which they lighted, they set off for the edge of the
forest, where they remained for two hours with the light, shouting at
intervals; but the snow fell so fast, and the cold was so intense, for
the wind blew fresh from the northward, that they could remain no
longer. They did not, however, return to the house, but went to their
own lodge to recover themselves, and remained there till daylight. They
then went out again; the snow-storm had ceased, and the morning was
clear and bright; they went back into the forest (on the road by which
they had come home) for three or four miles, but the snow had now fallen
and covered all the tracks which they had made the day before, and was
in many places several feet deep. They proceeded to where Percival was
last seen by John, who had described the spot very exactly; they looked
every where about, made circuits round and round, in hopes of perceiving
the muzzle of his rifle peeping out above the snow, but there was
nothing to be discovered, and after a search of four or five hours, they
returned to the house. They found Mr. Campbell and Henry in the kitchen,
for Mrs. Campbell was in such a state of anxiety and distress, that she
was in her room attended by Mary. Mr. Campbell perceived by their
countenances that they brought no satisfactory tidings. Malachi shook
his head mournfully, and sat down
said Mr. Campbell
Mr. Campbell covered his face with his hands, and after a time
exclaimed
After a few minutes, he rose and went into Mrs. Campbell's room
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell
replied Mr. Campbell
Mrs. Campbell wept bitterly; and having thus given vent to the feelings
of nature, she became gradually more calm and resigned; her habitually
devout spirit sought and found relief in the God of all comfort
Thus in one short day was the family of Mr. Campbell changed from a
house of joy to one of mourning. And true was the remark of Malachi,
that misfortunes seldom come single, for now they had another cause of
anxiety. Emma, by her imprudent exposure to the intense chill of the
night air and the wetting of her feet, was first taken with a violent
cold, which was followed by a fever, which became more alarming every
day. Thus, in addition to the loss of one of their children, Mr. and
Mrs. Campbell were threatened with being deprived of two more; for their
nieces were regarded as such, and Alfred was in a very precarious state.
The wounds had assumed such an angry appearance, that Mr. Campbell was
fearful of mortification. This accumulated distress had, however, one
good effect upon them. The danger of losing Emma and Alfred so occupied
their minds and their attention, that they had not time to bewail the
loss of Percival; and even Mrs. Campbell, in her prayers, was enabled to
resign herself to the Almighty's will in taking away her child, if it
would but please Him to spare the two others who were afflicted. Long
and tedious were the hours, the days, and the weeks that passed away
before either of them could be considered in a state of convalescence;
but when her prayers were heard, and, as the winter closed, their
recovery was no longer doubtful. A melancholy winter it had been to them
all, but the joy of once more seeing Emma resume her duties, and Alfred,
supported on cushions, able to be moved into the sitting-room, had a
very exhilarating effect upon their spirits. True, there was no longer
the mirth and merriment that once reigned, but there was a subdued
gratitude to Heaven, which, if it did not make them at once cheerful, at
least prevented any thing like repining or complaint. Grateful for the
mercies vouchsafed to them, in having Alfred and Emma spared to them,
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell consoled themselves in reference to Percival, with
the reflection that, at so early an age, before he had lived to be
corrupted by the world, to die was gain,-- and that their dear boy had
become, through Divine grace, an inhabitant of the kingdom of Heaven. By
degrees the family became cheerful and happy; the merry laugh of Emma
once more enlivened them, Alfred again recovered his former health and
spirits, and Mrs. Campbell could bear the mention of the name of
Percival, and join in the praises of the amiable child.

The spring now came on, the snow gradually disappeared, the ice was
carried down the rapids, and once more left the blue lake clear; the
cattle were turned out to feed off the grass the year before left on the
prairie, and all the men were busy in preparing to put in the seed. As
soon as the snow was gone, Malachi, Martin and Alfred, without saying a
word to Mrs. Campbell, had gone into the forest, and made search for the
body of poor Percival, but without success, and it was considered that
he had wandered and died on some spot which they could not discover, or
that the wolves had dug his remains out of the snow, and devoured them.
Not a trace of him could any where be discovered; and the search was,
after a few days, discontinued. The return of the spring had another
good effect upon the spirits of the party; for, with the spring came on
such a variety of work to be done, that they had not a moment to spare.
They had now so many acres for corn, that they had scarcely time to get
through all the preparatory work, and fortunate it was that Alfred was
so much recovered that he could join in the labor. Malachi, John, and
even Mr. Campbell, assisted, and at last the task was completed. Then
they had a communication with the fort, and letters from Quebec,
Montreal, and England: there were none of any importance from England,
but one from Montreal informed Mr. Campbell, that, agreeably to
contract, the engineer would arrive in the course of the month, with the
_bateaux_ containing the machinery, and that the water-mill would be
erected as soon as possible. There was also a letter from England, which
gave them great pleasure; it was from Captain Sinclair to Alfred,
informing him that he had arranged all his business with his guardian,
and that he should rejoin his regiment and be at the fort early in the
spring, as he should sail in the first vessel which left England. He
stated how delighted he should be at his return, and told him to say to
Emma that he had not found an English wife, as she had prophesied, but
was coming back as heart-whole as he went. Very soon afterward they had
a visit from Colonel Forster and some of the officers of the garrison.
The Colonel offered Mr. Campbell a party of soldiers to assist in
raising the mill, and the offer was thankfully accepted
said the Colonel
replied Mr. Campbell
said Mr. Campbell
replied Mr.
Campbell
replied
Mr. Campbell
About three weeks after this conversation, the _bateaux_ arrived with
the engineer and machinery for the flour and saw-mills: and now the
settlement again presented a lively scene, being thronged with the
soldiers who were sent from the fort. The engineer was a very pleasant,
intelligent young Englishman, who had taken up his profession in Canada,
and was considered one of the most able in the colony. The site of the
mill was soon chosen, and now the axes again resounded in the woods, as
the trees were felled and squared under his directions. Alfred was
constantly with the engineer, superintending the labor of the men, and
contracted a great intimacy with him; indeed, that gentleman was soon on
such a footing with the whole family, as to be considered almost as one
of them, for he was very amusing, very well bred, and had evidently
received every advantage of education. Mr. Campbell found that Mr.
Emmerson, for such was his name, could give him every particular
relative to the emigrants who had come out, as he was so constantly
traveling about the country, and was in such constant communication with
them
said he to Mr. Campbell
observed
Mr. Campbell
said Emma
replied he
replied Mr. Emmerson
said
Mr. Campbell
replied Mr. Emmerson
The works at the mill proceeded rapidly, and before the hay-harvest the
mill was complete. Alfred was very careful, and paid every attention to
what was going on, and so did Martin, that they might understand the
machinery. This was very simple. Mr. Emmerson tried the mill, and found
it to answer well. He explained every thing to Alfred, and put the mill
to work, that he might be fully master of it. As it was a fortnight
after the mill was at work before Mr. Emmerson could obtain a passage
back to Montreal, Alfred and Martin worked both mills during that time,
and felt satisfied that they required no further instruction. The
soldiers, at the request of Mr. Campbell, were allowed to remain till
the hay-harvest, and as soon as the hay was gathered in, they were paid
and returned to the fort. Captain Sinclair, who, from his letter, had
been expected to arrive much sooner, came just as the soldiers had left
the farm. It need hardly be said that he was received most warmly. He
had a great deal to tell them, and had brought out a great many
presents; those for poor little Percival he kept back, of course. Emma
and Mary were delighted to have him again as a companion, and to resume
their walks with him; a fortnight thus passed away very quickly, when
his leave of absence expired, and he was obliged to return to the fort.
Previous, however, to his going away, he requested a private interview
with Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, in which he stated his exact position and
his means, and requested their sanction to his paying his addresses to
Mary. Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, who had already perceived the attentions he
had shown to her, did not hesitate to express their satisfaction at his
request, and their best wishes for his success; and having so done, they
left him to forward his own suit, which Captain Sinclair did not fail to
do that very evening, Mary Percival was too amiable and right-minded a
girl not at once to refuse or accept Captain Sinclair. As she had long
been attached to him she did not deny that such was the case, and
Captain Sinclair was overjoyed at his success
said Mary
continued Mary, smiling
replied Captain Sinclair
observed Mary
replied Mary, with a
smile
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Mary
Captain Sinclair departed the day afterward, quite satisfied with Mary's
resolution
As Henry had predicted, during the autumn the whole family were fully
employed. The stock had increased very much, they had a large number of
young calves and heifers, and the sheep had lambed down very favorably.
Many of the stock were now turned into the bush, to save the feed on the
prairies. The sheep with their lambs, the cows which were in milk, and
the young calves only were retained. This gave them more leisure to
attend to the corn harvest, which was now ready, and it required all
their united exertions from daylight to sunset to get it in, for they
had a very large quantity of ground to clear. It was, however, got in
very successfully, and all stacked in good order. Then came the
thrashing of the wheat, which gave them ample employment; and as soon as
it could be thrashed out, it was taken to the mill in a wagon, and
ground down, for Mr. Campbell had engaged to supply a certain quantity
of flour to the fort before the winter set in. They occasionally
received a visit from Captain Sinclair and the Colonel, and some other
officers, for now they had gradually become intimate with many of them.
Captain Sinclair had confided to the Colonel his engagement to Mary
Percival, and in consequence the Colonel allowed him to visit at the
farm as often as he could, consistently with his duty. The other
officers who came to see them, perceiving how much Captain Sinclair
engrossed the company of Mary Percival, were very assiduous in their
attentions to Emma, who laughed with and at them, and generally
contrived to give them something to do for her during their visit, as
well as to render their attentions serviceable to the household. On
condition that Emma accompanied them, they were content to go into the
punt and fish for hours; and indeed, all the lake-fish which were caught
this year were taken by the officers. There were several very pleasant
young men among them and they were always well received, as they added
very much to the society at the farm.

Before the winter set in the flour was all ready, and sent to the fort,
as were the cattle which the Colonel requested, and it was very evident
that the Colonel was right when he said that the arrangement would be
advantageous to both parties. Mr. Campbell, instead of drawing money to
pay, this year for the first time received a bill on the government to a
considerable amount for the flour and cattle furnished to the troops;
and Mrs. Campbell's account for fowls, pork, etc., furnished to the
garrison, was by no means to be despised. Thus, by the kindness of
others, his own exertions, and a judicious employment of his small
capital, Mr. Campbell promised to be in a few years a wealthy and
independent man. As soon as the harvest was in, Malachi and John, who
were of no use in thrashing out the corn, renewed their hunting
expeditions, and seldom returned without venison. The Indians had not
been seen by Malachi during his excursions, nor any trace of their
having been in the neighborhood; all alarm, therefore, on that account
was now over, and the family prepared to meet the coming winter with all
the additional precautions which the foregoing had advised them of. But
during the Indian summer they received letters from England, detailing,
as usual, the news relative to friends with whom they had been intimate;
also one from Quebec, informing Mr. Campbell that his application for
the extra grant of land was consented to; and another from Montreal,
from Mr. Emmerson, stating that he had offered terms to two families of
settlers who bore very good characters, and if they were accepted by Mr.
Campbell, the parties would join them at the commencement of the ensuing
spring.

This was highly gratifying to Mr. Campbell, and as the terms were, with
a slight variation, such as he had proposed, he immediately wrote to Mr.
Emmerson, agreeing to terms, and requesting that the bargain might be
concluded. At the same time that the Colonel forwarded the above
letters, he wrote to Mr. Campbell to say that the interior of the fort
required a large quantity of plank for repairs, that he was authorized
to take them from Mr. Campbell, at a certain price, if he could afford
to supply them on these terms, and have them ready by the following
spring. This was another act of kindness on the part of the Colonel, as
it would now give employment to the saw-mill for the winter, and it was
during the winter, and at the time that the snow was on the ground, that
they could easily drag the timber after it was felled to the saw-mill.
Mr. Campbell wrote an answer, thanking the Colonel for his offer, which
he accepted, and promised to have the planks ready by the time the lake
was again open.

At last the winter set in, with its usual fall of snow. Captain Sinclair
took his leave for a long time, much to the sorrow of all the family,
who were warmly attached to him. It was arranged that the only parties
who were to go on the hunting excursions should be Malachi and John, as
Henry had ample employment in the barns; and Martin and Alfred, in
felling timber, and dragging up the stems to the saw-mill, would, with
attending to the mill as well, have their whole time taken up. Such were
the arrangements out of doors, and now that they had lost the services
of poor Percival, and the duties to attend to in doors were so much
increased, Mrs. Campbell and the girls were obliged to call in the
assistance of Mr. Campbell whenever he could be spared from the garden,
which was his usual occupation. Thus glided on the third winter in quiet
and security; but in full employment, and with so much to do and attend
to, that it passed very rapidly.

It was in the month of February, when the snow was very heavy on the
ground, that one day Malachi went up to the mill to Alfred, whom he
found alone attending the saws, which were in full activity; for Martin
was squaring out the timber ready to be sawed at about one hundred
yards' distance.

&lsqb;THE INDIAN LETTER
said Malachi
inquired Alfred
Malachi then produced a piece
of birch bark, of which the underneath drawing is a fac-simile
said Alfred
said Malachi, pointing to one of
the lowest down on the piece of bark
exclaimed Alfred
replied Malachi
replied Malachi
replied Alfred with surprise
said Alfred, after a
pause
replied Malachi
observed
Malachi
observed Alfred
replied Malachi
The conversation was here finished; Alfred and all those who were
possessed of the secret never allowed the slightest hint to drop of
their knowledge. The winter passed away without interruption of any
kind. Before the snow had disappeared the seed was all prepared ready
for sowing; the planks had been sawed out, and all the wheat not
required for seed had been ground down and put into flour-barrels, ready
for any further demand from the fort. And thus terminated the third
winter in Canada
It was now April, and for some days Malachi and John had been very busy,
assisted by the Strawberry; for the time had come for tapping the
maple-trees, to make the maple-sugar, and Mrs. Campbell had expressed a
wish that she could be so supplied with an article of such general
consumption, and which they could not obtain but by the _bateaux_ which
went to Montreal. In the evening, when Malachi and John were, as usual,
employed in cutting small trays out of the soft wood of the balsam-fir,
and of which they had already prepared a large quantity, Mrs. Campbell
asked Malachi how the sugar was procured
replied Mrs. Campbell
replied Malachi
said Emma
said Martin
replied Henry, laughing
replied Malachi
Malachi referred to a small sledge which they had made in the winter,
and which was now very useful, as they could, with one horse, transport
things from place to place. It was used by Alfred for bringing down to
the storehouse the sacks of flour as fast as they were ground in the
mill
said Emma laughing
replied Malachi
inquired
Mr. Campbell
replied Alfred
said Malachi
The next morning Malachi went out into the woods, taking with him the
coppers and all the trays on the sledge: during that day he was busy
boring the trees and fitting the reed-pipes to the holes. Strawberry and
John accompanied him, and by sunset their work was complete.

The next morning when they went out, only Malachi and John took their
axes with them, for John could use his very well for so young a lad.
They first went to the tree which Martin had discovered; he had given a
description where to find it. They cut it down, but did not attempt to
take the honey till the night, when they lighted a fire, and drove away
the bees by throwing leaves upon it, and making a great smoke; they then
opened the tree, and gained about two pails full of honey, which they
brought in just as the family were about to go to bed. When they went
out the next morning, they found a bear very busy at the remains of the
comb, but the animal made off before they could get a shot at him.

Every morning the Strawberry collected all the sap which had run out of
the trees, and poured it into the coppers which had been fixed up by
Malachi, ready for a fire to be lighted under them. They continued their
search, and found three more hives of bees, which they marked and
allowed to remain till later in the season, when they could take them
at their leisure. In a fortnight, they had collected sufficient liquor
from the trees to fill both the coppers to the brim, besides several
pails. The fires were therefore lighted under the coppers, and due
notice given to Mrs. Campbell and the girls, that the next day they must
go out into the woods and see the operation; as the liquor would, toward
the afternoon, be turned into coolers, which were some of the large
washing-tubs then in use, and which had been thoroughly cleansed for the
purpose.

As this was to be a holiday in the woods, they prepared a cold dinner in
a large basket, and gave it in charge of Henry. Mr. Campbell joined the
party, and they all set off to the spot, which was about two miles
distant. On their arrival, they examined the trees and the trays into
which the juice first ran, the boilers in which the liquor was now
simmering over the fire, and asked questions of Malachi, so that they
might, if necessary, be able to make the sugar themselves, after which
the first cooler was filled with the boiling liquor, that they might see
how the sugar crystallized as the liquor became cold. They then sat down
under a large tree and dined. The tree was at some distance from the
boilers, as there was no shade in the open spot where Malachi had placed
them, and the afternoon was passed very agreeably in listening to
Malachi's and Martin's stories of their adventures in the woods. While
they were still at dinner, Oscar and the other dogs which had
accompanied them had strayed to about a hundred yards distant, and were
soon very busy scraping and barking at a large hole
said Alfred
replied
Malachi
said Mary.

The Strawberry pointed to her moccasins, and then put her finger on the
porcupine-quills with which they were embroidered
said she, softly
said Mary
replied the Strawberry
said Mrs. Campbell
said Emma
Martin got up and went for the shovels; during his absence, the dinner
was cleared away, and the articles replaced in the basket; they then all
adjourned to where the dogs were still barking and scratching.

It was more than an hour before they could dig out the animal, and when
at last it burst away from the hole, they could not help laughing as
they witnessed the way in which one or two of the dogs were pricked with
the quills of the animal, who needed no other defense; the dogs ran
back, pawed their noses, and then went on again. Oscar was too knowing
to attack it in that way; he attempted to turn it over, so that he might
get at its stomach, when he would soon have killed it, but Martin
dispatched the poor beast with a blow on the nose, and the dogs then
rushed in upon it. They amused themselves selecting all the best of the
quills for the Strawberry, and then they went back again to the coolers,
to see the sugar which had been made.

As they neared the spot, Emma cried out
Malachi and John had their rifles ready immediately. Mrs. Campbell and
Mary were much alarmed, as the animal was not one hundred yards from
them
said Malachi
said Martin
said Mrs.
Campbell
said Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
The eyes of the whole party, some frightened and some not, were now
fixed upon the bear, who, approving of what he had tasted as a sample,
now proceeded to help himself more liberally.

He therefore placed his paw down into the contents of the cooler, but
although the surface of the liquor was cool, the lower part was still
scalding hot, and he had not put his paw in for a moment, when he
withdrew it with a loud roar, rearing up and sitting upon his hind legs,
and throwing his burned paw in the air
observed Malachi, chuckling
John, Alfred, and Martin burst out laughing at the sight; and even Mrs.
Campbell and the two girls could not help being amused
said Martin
replied Malachi
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell
said Mary
Martin, who had got all the dogs collected together and fast by a piece
of deer's hide, as soon as they had discovered the bear, went back with
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and the girls
said Martin
During this interval, the bear again applied to the cooler, and burned
himself as before, and this time being more angry, he now gave another
roar, and, as if considering that the joke had been played upon him by
the party who were looking on, he made directly for them at a quick run
said Malachi
John kneeled down in front of Malachi, who had his rifle all ready; much
to the horror of Mrs. Campbell, John permitted the bear to come within
twenty yards of him. He then fired, and the animal fell dead without a
struggle
said Malachi, going up to the bear
Martin did so; the dogs were permitted to pull and tear at the dead
animal for a few minutes, and then taken off; in the mean time, Mr.
Campbell and the ladies had come up to where the animal lay
said Malachi
said Mrs. Campbell
replied John
replied Malachi
said Mr.
Campbell
John was very much praised, as he deserved to be, by the whole party;
and then Malachi said
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Malachi
It was in the first week of June that Malachi, when he was out in the
woods, perceived an Indian, who came toward him. He was a youth of about
twenty or twenty-one years old, tall and slightly made; he carried his
bow and arrows and his tomahawk, but had no gun. Malachi was at that
time sitting down on the trunk of a fallen tree; he was not more than
two miles from the house, and had gone out with his rifle without any
particular intent, unless it was that, as he expected he should soon
receive some communication from the Indians, he wished to give them an
opportunity of speaking to him alone. The Indian came up to where
Malachi was, and took a seat by him, without saying a word
said Malachi, in the Indian tongue, after a
silence of one or two minutes
replied the Indian
replied Malachi
said the Indian
replied Malachi.

The Indian did not continue this conversation, and there was a silence
of some minutes. Malachi was convinced that the young Indian had been
sent to intimate that Percival was alive and in captivity, and he
resolved to wait patiently till he brought up the subject
said the Indian, at last
replied Malachi.

Here there was a pause in the conversation for some minutes; at last the
young Indian said
replied Malachi
replied the Indian
replied
Malachi
replied
Malachi
replied Malachi
The Indian again stopped and was silent. He knew by the words of Malachi
that the wolf's skin, with which the Indian had been covered when he was
crawling to the palisades and had been shot by John, had been
discovered. Malachi after a while renewed the conversation
replied the Indian
replied the Indian
replied Malachi
The Indian again paused. He perceived that Malachi knew where he came
from, and from whom. At last he said
replied Malachi
replied the Indian
replied Malachi
replied the Indian
inquired Malachi
replied
the Indian
replied Malachi
replied the Indian, who rose, turned on his heel, and walked
away into the forest.

When Malachi returned to the house, he took an opportunity of
communicating to Alfred what had taken place. After some conversation,
they agreed that they would make Captain Sinclair, who had that morning
arrived from the fort, their confidant as to what had occurred, and
decide with him upon what steps should be taken. Captain Sinclair was
very much surprised, and equally delighted, when he heard that Percival
was still alive, and warmly entered into the subject
observed Captain Sinclair
replied Malachi
replied Alfred
replied Malachi
replied Captain Sinclair
said Alfred
said Captain Sinclair
replied Malachi
and Malachi smiled as he finished his remark
said Alfred,
laughing
Captain Sinclair quitted in the evening, and went back to the fort. He
returned at the time appointed, and informed them that the Colonel fully
approved of their plan of holding the young Indian as a hostage, and
that he would secure him in the fort as soon as he was brought in
continued Captain
Sinclair
replied Malachi
They then walked to the end of the prairie nearest to the fort, which
was about a mile from the house, and Malachi having selected his ground,
and pointed out to them where to conceal themselves, they returned to
the house, Alfred having made arrangements when and where he and Martin
would meet Captain Sinclair on the day appointed.

The next day passed, and Malachi, as the sun sank behind the lake,
walked out to the end of the prairie. He had not been there ten minutes
when the young Indian stood before him. He was armed, as before, with
his tomahawk and bows and arrows, but Malachi had come out expressly
without his rifle.

Malachi, as soon as he perceived the Indian, sat down, as is the usual
custom among them when they hold a talk, and the Young Otter followed
his example
said the Indian after a short
silence
replied Malachi
continued the Indian
replied the Indian
replied Malachi
replied Malachi
and Malachi laid hold of the
Indian's arm as he spoke.

This was the signal agreed upon between Malachi and the party concealed,
who rushed forward and seized the Indian. The Young Otter sprang up in
spite of their endeavors to keep him, and would certainly have escaped,
for he had got his tomahawk clear, and was about to wield it around his
head, had not Martin already passed one of the deer thongs round his
ankle, by which the Indian was thrown again to the ground. His arms were
then secured behind his back with other deer-skin thongs, and another
passed round his ankle and given to Alfred
said Captain Sinclair
replied Malachi
replied Martin
said Captain Sinclair
Malachi addressed the Indian in his own tongue, and told him what
Captain Sinclair requested
The Young Otter made no reply to any thing said by Malachi, but looked
around him very impatiently
said Malachi
This was done in a few minutes. Captain Sinclair then took charge of the
Indian, and set off with his party for the fort. Malachi, Alfred, and
Martin returned to the house, and before they entered the prairie,
Martin detected the tall form of an Indian at a short distance, in the
shade of the trees
said Malachi
Martin was right when he stated that he perceived the form of the Angry
Snake under the shade of the trees. The chief was then watching what
occurred, and had been witness to the capture of his emissary, and,
following those who had the Young Otter in charge, saw him conveyed to
the fort. In the meantime, Malachi, Martin, and Alfred went home,
without any suspicion being raised among the other branches of the
family of what had occurred. This gave them great satisfaction
said Alfred the next morning, as they were all busily
employed getting the seed into the new cleared land
replied Malachi
replied Malachi
Malachi and Alfred continued to work for two or three hours, when they
were summoned by Emma to go in to dinner
said
Emma, as they walked home
replied Alfred
replied Emma
Alfred ran down to the beach; the punt was gone from the shore, and
after looking for some time to leeward, which was to the eastward, in
the direction of the rapids, Alfred thought that he perceived something
like a boat at a distance of three or four miles; but the water of the
lake was much ruffled by the strong wind, and it was not easy to
distinguish.

Alfred hastened back, and said to Emma
Emma went to the house, and soon returned with the telescope. Alfred and
Malachi then went down to the beach, and the former distinctly made out
that what he had seen was the punt adrift, with John in it
said Alfred
said Malachi
replied Alfred
replied Alfred
replied Malachi
Alfred rejoined Emma, whom he cautioned, and then they went in to their
dinner
said Mr. Campbell
said Alfred
observed Henry,
who, with Martin, had come in before Alfred
said Mrs. Campbell
said Alfred
said Mr. Campbell
replied Alfred
Alfred ate fast, and then rose from the table, and went away from the
house. The horse was all ready, and he mounted and rode off for the
fort, telling Malachi that his father and mother thought John was with
him; and that, therefore, he had better not go in to dinner, but keep
out of the way
Their plans, however, to conceal the danger of John did not succeed; for
Mrs. Campbell, after the loss of poor little Percival, had become more
than ever solicitous about John, and, a minute or two after Alfred had
left the house, she rose from the table, and went to the door, to see if
she could perceive Malachi and John coming in. As it happened, Alfred
had just set off in a gallop, and she saw him, as well as Malachi
standing by himself and watching Alfred's departure. The very
circumstance of Alfred's mysterious departure alarmed her. He had never
said that he was going to the fort, and that John was not with Malachi
was certain. She went into the cottage, and, sinking back in her chair,
exclaimed
said Mr. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell, bursting into tears
Mr. Campbell and all the others ran out immediately, except Mary
Percival, who went to Mrs. Campbell. Mr. Campbell beckoned to Emma, and
from her obtained the real state of the case
said Mr. Campbell, who then
went to his wife, telling her that John was adrift, and that Alfred had
ridden to the fort to pick him up in one of the _bateaux_, but there
was no danger to be apprehended
replied
his wife
continued Mrs.
Campbell, again sobbing.

Every attempt was made to console her and assuage her fears, but with
indifferent success, and the afternoon of this day was passed in great
concern by all, and in an extreme state of nervous anxiety on the part
of Mrs. Campbell. Toward the evening, Alfred was seen returning on
horseback at full speed. The whole of the family were out watching his
arrival, with beating hearts; poor Mrs. Campbell in almost a fainting
state. Alfred perceived them long before he had crossed the prairie, and
waved his hat in token of good tidings
said Mr. Campbell
said Mrs. Campbell, almost
breathless
cried out Martin to Alfred, as he approached
cried Alfred, in return
cried Mrs. Campbell, in a low voice, clasping her hands
in gratitude.

Alfred leaped off his saddle, and hastened to communicate the news.
John, trusting too much to his own powers, had gone out in the punt, and
soon found out that he could not manage it in so strong a wind. He
attempted to get back to the beach, but was unsuccessful, and had, as we
have said, been carried away by the wind and current down toward the
rapids; but it so happened, that before Alfred had arrived at the fort,
Captain Sinclair had observed the punt adrift, and, by the aid of a
telescope, ascertained that John was in it, exerting himself very
vigorously, but to no purpose. Captain Sinclair, having reported to the
commandant and obtained permission, had launched one of the _bateaux_,
manned by the soldiers, and had brought John and the punt on shore,
about four miles below the fort, and not until they had arrived in the
strong current of the rapids, which in another hour would have, in all
probability, proved fatal. Alfred, from the fort, had seen Captain
Sinclair gain the shore, with John and the punt in tow, and, as soon as
he was satisfied of his brother's safety, had ridden back as fast as he
could, to communicate it. This intelligence gave them all great delight,
and now that they knew that John was safe, they waited his return with
patience. Captain Sinclair arrived, with John behind him, on horseback,
about two hours afterward, and was gladly welcomed
said Mrs.
Campbell
said Mary, extending her hand to him
said Mrs. Campbell
said John, laughing
replied John
replied Malachi
observed Alfred
said John
replied Mrs. Campbell.

Captain Sinclair remained with them that night. Before daylight, the
family were alarmed by the report of a gun, and it was immediately
supposed that some attack had been made on the lodge occupied by
Malachi, Martin, and his wife. Captain Sinclair, Alfred, and John sprang
out of bed, and were clothed in a minute. As soon as they had armed
themselves, they opened the door cautiously, and, looking well round,
went through the passage to the sheep-fold where the lodge was built.
Every thing, however, appeared to be quiet, and Alfred knocked at the
door. Malachi answered to the inquiry
cried Malachi, laughing
said Alfred
said Malachi, coming out with his deer-skin
jacket in one hand and his rifle in the other.

They walked to the maize-field on the other side of the river, and found
that the trap had been successful, for a large bear lay dead at the foot
of the snake-fence
said Malachi
said Henry
said Martin, who had joined them
replied Malachi
The rest of the party returned to the house. The Strawberry had already
made known to Mr. and Mrs. Campbell the cause of the report. About an
hour before breakfast, Malachi and Martin came in, each with a cub of a
few weeks old. The little animals had come in the track of the mother in
search of her, and were pawing the dead body, as if trying to awaken
her, when Malachi and Martin secured them
said Emma
said John.

No objection was raised to this, except that Mr. Campbell observed, that
if they became troublesome as they grew up, they must be parted with,
which was agreed to. Emma and John took possession of their pets, and
fed them with milk, and in a few days they became very tame; one being
chained up near the house, and the other at Malachi's lodge. They soon
grew very playful and very amusing little animals, and the dogs became
used to them, and never attempted to hurt them; indeed, very often Oscar
and the bear would be seen rolling about together, the best friends in
the world. But in a few months they became too large for pets, and too
troublesome, so one was dispatched by a _bateau_ going to Montreal, as a
present to Mr. Emmerson, and the other was taken to the fort by Captain
Sinclair, and became a great favorite of the soldiers
Captain Sinclair was now very constantly at the house, for in the summer
time the commandant allowed much more liberty to the officers. Although
the detention of the Young Otter and the cause of his being detained,
had been made known to the Angry Snake, weeks passed away, and yet there
appeared no intention on the part of the chief to redeem his young
warrior by producing Percival. Every day an overture on his part was
expected, but none came, and those who were in the secret were in a
continual state of suspense and anxiety. One thing had been ascertained,
which was, that the Indian fired at by John had been killed, and this
occasioned much fear on the part of Malachi and Martin, that the Angry
Snake would revenge the death upon young Percival. This knowledge of the
Indian feeling, however, they kept to themselves.

Toward the close of the summer they had an arrival of letters and
newspapers, both from England and Montreal. There was nothing peculiarly
interesting in the intelligence from England, although the newspapers
were, as usual, read with great avidity. One paragraph met the eye of
Henry, which he immediately communicated, observing at the time that
they always obtained news of Mr. Douglas Campbell on every fresh
arrival. The paragraph was as follows
after describing the country they passed through,
the paragraph ended with
The letters from
Montreal, were, however, important. They communicated the immediate
departure from that city of four families of emigrants, who had accepted
the terms offered by Mr. Emmerson, and were coming to settle upon Mr.
Campbell's property. They also stated that the purchase of the other six
hundred acres of contiguous land had been completed, and sent government
receipts for the purchase-money.

The news contained in this letter induced Mr. Campbell to send a message
to the commandant of the fort, by Captain Sinclair, acquainting him with
the expected arrival of the emigrant families, and requesting to know
whether he would allow a party of soldiers to assist in raising the
cottages necessary for their reception, and begging the loan of two or
three tents to accommodate them upon their arrival, until their cottages
should be built. The reply of the commandant was favorable, and now all
was bustle and activity, that, if possible, the buildings might be in
forwardness previous to harvest time, when they would all have ample
occupation. Indeed, as the hay harvest was just coming on, without
assistance from the fort they never could have got through the work
previous to the winter setting in, and it would have been very
inconvenient to have had to receive any of the emigrants into their own
house.

The sites of the four cottages, or log huts, were soon selected; they
were each of them nearly half a mile from Mr. Campbell's house, and
while some of the party, assisted by a portion of the soldiers, were
getting in the hay, the others, with another portion, were cutting down
the trees, and building up the cottages. In a fortnight after they had
commenced, the emigrants arrived, and were housed in the tents prepared
for them; and as their labor was now added to that of the others, in a
short time every thing was well in advance. The agreement made by Mr.
Campbell was, that the emigrants should each receive fifty acres of
land, after they had cleared for him a similar quantity; but there were
many other conditions, relative to food and supply of stock to the
emigrant families, which are not worth the while to dwell upon. It is
sufficient to say that Mr. Campbell, with his former purchases, retained
about 600 acres, which he considered quite sufficient for his farm,
which was all in a ring fence, and with the advantage of bordering on
the lake. The fire had cleared a great deal of the new land, so that it
required little trouble for his own people to get it into a fit state
for the first crop.

While the emigrants and soldiers were hard at work, the Colonel paid a
visit to Mr. Campbell to settle his account with him, and handed over a
bill upon government for the planks, flour, etc., supplied to the fort
said the Colonel
I have said that there were four families of emigrants, and now I will
let my readers know a little more about them.

The first family was a man and his wife of the name of Harvey; they had
two sons of fourteen and fifteen, and a daughter of eighteen years of
age. This man had been a small farmer, and by his industry was gaining
an honest livelihood, and putting by some money, when his eldest son,
who was at the time about twenty years old, fell into bad company, and
was always to be seen at the alehouses or at the fairs, losing his time
and losing his money. The father, whose ancestors had resided for many
generations on the same spot, and had always been, as long as they could
trace back, small farmers like himself, and who was proud of only one
thing, which was that his family had been noted for honesty and upright
dealing, did all he could to reclaim him, but in vain. At last the son
was guilty of a burglary, tried, convicted, and transported for life.
The disgrace had such an effect upon the father, that he never held up
his head afterward; he was ashamed to be seen in the parish, and at last
he resolved to emigrate to a new country where what had happened would
not be known.

He accordingly sold off every thing, and came to Canada; but by the time
that he had arrived in the country, and paid all his expenses, he had
little money left, and when he heard from Mr. Emmerson the terms offered
by Mr. Campbell, he gladly accepted them. The wife, his two sons and his
daughter, who came with him, were as industrious and as respectable as
himself.

The second family, of the name of Graves, consisted of a man and his
wife, and only one son, a young man grown up; but the wife's two sisters
were with them. He had come from Buckinghamshire, and had been
accustomed to a dairy farm.

The third family was a very numerous one, with a man and his wife, of
the name of Jackson; these had been farmers and market-gardeners near
London; and had brought out some money with them: but, as I have
mentioned, they had a very large family, most of them too young to be
very useful for a few years. They had seven children: a girl of
eighteen, two boys of twelve and thirteen, then three little girls, and
a boy an infant. Jackson had money enough to purchase a farm, but being
a very prudent man, and reflecting that he might not succeed at first,
and that his large family would run away with all his means, he decided
upon accepting the terms proposed by Mr. Campbell.

The fourth and last of the emigrant families was a young couple of the
name of Meredith. The husband was the son of a farmer in Shropshire, who
had died, and divided his property between his three sons: two of them
remained upon the farm and paid the youngest brother his proportion in
money, who, being of a speculative turn, resolved to come to Canada, and
try his fortune. He married just before he came out, and was not as yet
encumbered with any family; he was a fine young man, well educated, and
his wife a very clever, pretty young woman.

Thus there was an addition of twenty-one souls to the population of Mr.
Campbell's settlement, which with their own ten made a total of
thirty-one people, out of whom they reckoned that thirteen were capable
of bearing arms, and defending them from any attack of the Indians.

Before harvest time, the cottages were all built, and the emigrants were
busy felling round their new habitations, to lay up fire-wood for the
winter, and clearing away a spot for a garden, and for planting potatoes
in the following spring. The harvest being ripe again, gave them all
full employment; the corn was got in with great expedition by the united
labor of the soldiers and emigrants, when the former, having completed
their work, returned to the fort, and the Campbells, with the addition
to their colony, were now left alone. Visiting the emigrants in their
own cottages, and making acquaintance with the children, was now a great
source of amusement to the Miss Percivals. Various plans were started
relative to establishing a Sunday-school and many other useful
arrangements; one, however, took place immediately, which was, that
divine service was performed by Mr. Campbell in his own house, and was
attended by all the emigrants every Sunday. Mr. Campbell had every
reason to be pleased with their conduct up to the present time; they all
appeared willing, never murmured or complained at any task allotted to
them, and were satisfied with Mr. Campbell's arrangements relative to
supplies. Parties were now again formed for the chase; Meredith and
young Graves proved to be good woodsmen and capital shots with the
rifle, so that now they had enough to send out a party on alternate
days, while one or two of the others fished all the day and salted down
as fast as they caught, that there might be a full supply for the
winter.

But although Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and the Miss Percivals, as well as
the major part of the family, were fully satisfied and happy in their
future prospects, there were four who were in a state of great anxiety
and suspense. These were Alfred, Malachi, Martin, and the Strawberry,
who, being acquainted with the existence of young Percival, found their
secret a source of great annoyance, now that, notwithstanding the
capture and detention of the Young Otter, no advance appeared to be made
for his exchange, nor any signs of any overture on the part of the Angry
Snake. Captain Sinclair, who was usually at the farm twice during the
week, was also much fretted at finding that every time Malachi and
Alfred had no more information to give him than he had to impart to
them. They hardly knew how to act; to let a second winter pass away
without attempting to recover the boy, appeared to them to be delaying
too long, and yet to communicate intelligence which might only end in
bitter disappointment, seemed unadvisable; for the Indian chief, out of
revenge, might have killed the boy, and then the grief of the father and
mother would be more intense than before. It would be opening a wound to
no purpose. This question was frequently canvassed by Alfred and Captain
Sinclair, but an end was put to all their debates on the subject by an
unexpected occurrence. Mary Percival had one morning gone down to a
place called the Cedar Swamp, about half a mile from the house to the
westward, near to the shore of the lake, to pick cranberries for
preserving. One of the little emigrant girls, Martha Jackson, was with
her; when one basket was full, Mary sent it home by the little girl,
with directions to come back immediately. The girl did so, but on her
return to the Cedar Swamp, Mary Percival was not to be seen. The basket
which she had retained with her was lying with all the cranberries upset
out of it on a hill by the side of the swamp. The little girl remained
for a quarter of an hour, calling out Miss Percival's name, but not
receiving any answer, she became frightened, imagining that some wild
beast had attacked her; and she ran back as fast as she could to the
house, acquainting Mr. and Mrs. Campbell with what had happened. Martin
and Alfred were at the mill; Malachi, fortunately, was at his own lodge,
and Strawberry ran for him, told him what the girl had reported, and
having done so, she looked at Malachi, and said
replied Malachi
Malachi caught up his rifle, examined the priming, and set off in the
direction of the swamp, while the Strawberry returned to the house to
give his message to Mr. and Mrs. Campbell. Leaving Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell, who were in a great state of alarm, and had sent the little
girl, Martha Jackson, to summon Alfred and Martin (for John and Henry
were out in the woods after the cattle), the Strawberry went down to the
Cedar Swamp to join Malachi, whom she found standing still, leaning on
his rifle, near the basket which had contained the cranberries
said Malachi, in the Indian tongue
said Strawberry, pointing to a mark on the short grass, which
never could have attracted the observation of one unused to an Indian
life
continued Malachi, after they had
proceeded two or three yards
said Strawberry, stooping close to the short, dry grass
replied Malachi
By the closest inspection and minutest search, Malachi and the
Strawberry continued to follow the almost imperceptible track till they
arrived at the bottom of the hill, about a hundred yards from where they
started. It had become more difficult, as the print of Mary's foot,
which was more easily perceptible than the others, had served them for a
few yards; after which it was no more to be distinguished, and it was
evident that she had been lifted up from the ground. This satisfied them
that she had been carried off. When they arrived at the bottom of the
hill, they could clearly distinguish the print marks of moccasins, and
by measuring very exactly the breadth and length of the impressions,
made out that they were of two different people. These they continued to
follow till they arrived at the forest, about a quarter of a mile from
the swamp, where they heard the hallooing of Alfred and Martin, to which
Malachi answered, and they soon joined him
replied Malachi
Malachi then explained why he was certain that she had been carried
away, and Martin agreed with him immediately. Alfred then said
replied Malachi
said Alfred
replied Malachi, coldly
replied Malachi
said Alfred
replied Alfred
Alfred hastened away, and was soon followed by Martin, to whom Malachi
had given some directions. Malachi and the Strawberry then continued to
follow the trail, which they traced through the thickest of the wood for
more than an hour, when they came upon a spot where a fire had been
lighted, and the ground trodden down, evidently showing that the parties
had been living there some time
resumed Malachi, as he looked
round.

The Strawberry, who had been examining the ground, said
The Strawberry now pointed to a mark near where the fire had been
lighted, and said
replied Malachi
Previous to his starting for the fort, Alfred had a hasty communication
with his father and mother, in which he informed them simply that it was
evident that Mary had been carried off, and that it was the opinion of
Malachi and Martin, that the Angry Snake was the party to be suspected
said Emma, weeping
replied Alfred
said Mrs. Campbell, who was in a
state of great agitation
Alfred then sprang upon his horse, which Martin had brought to the door,
and galloped away to the fort.

As it may be supposed, Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and Emma were in great
distress; this did not, however, prevent them from listening to Martin,
and supplying him with all that he requested, which was salt pork and
other food for their journey, powder and shot for their rifles, etc.
Having specified all that was wanted, Martin then went off to summon
young Graves and Meredith; they were soon found, and when they heard the
intelligence, were ready in a minute for departure. Their rifles and an
extra pair of moccasins each was all that they required for the journey,
and in a few minutes they accompanied Martin to the house. After they
had been occupied for a little time in dividing the various articles
into different packages, that each might carry his proportion, Mr.
Campbell said
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
replied Mrs. Campbell
said Emma
exclaimed Emma
replied Martin
said Mrs. Campbell
exclaimed Mrs.
Campbell
said Martin
Mrs. Campbell continued her interrogations till Alfred was seen at the
end of the prairie returning at full speed, accompanied by Captain
Sinclair and two other men, also on horseback
said Martin
said
Mrs. Campbell
observed Martin
Alfred and Captain Sinclair now dismounted: they had brought with them
two of the soldiers who were well used to the woods, and excellent shots
with the rifle. A hurried conversation of a few minutes took place, but
time was too precious, and Alfred, embracing his father and mother, who,
as they shook hands with Captain Sinclair, expressed in a melancholy way
their hopes for their success, the party of seven which had been
collected set off to rejoin Malachi and the Strawberry.

Malachi and Strawberry had not been idle; the latter had run back to
their lodge and procured a bow and arrows, and since that they had
tracked the footmarks through the forest for more than a mile, when they
had come to a small rivulet which ran through the forest. Here the trail
was lost, at least it was not to be perceived any where on the opposite
side of the rivulet, and it was to be presumed that, to conceal their
trail, the Indians had walked in the water, either up or down, for a
certain distance before they put their feet on the other side; but as it
was near the time that they might expect the arrival of Alfred and the
others, Malachi had returned to the spot where Alfred and Martin had
left them, leaving the Strawberry to walk down and up the side of the
rivulet to recover the trail. As soon as the party joined him, they and
Malachi set off to where the trail had been lost, and the latter had
left the Strawberry.

There they waited some time, as the Strawberry was not in sight, and
they took this opportunity of distributing the provisions and ammunition
among them. Captain Sinclair, although his feelings may well be
imagined, was very active in arrangements, and showed that, if his heart
was smitten, his head was clear. The order of the march was settled by
Malachi and him, and as soon as all was arranged, they waited
impatiently for the return of the Indian girl; she came at last, and
informed them that she had recovered the trail about three miles up the
course of the stream, and they all started immediately. As was agreed,
they kept perfect silence, and followed the newly-discovered trail for
about a mile, when, on their arrival at a clear spot in the woods, where
the grass was very short and dry, they were again at fault. They went
over to the other side of this heath, to see if they could again fall in
with it, but after half-an-hour's search, could not discover it, when
they were summoned by a low whistle from the Strawberry, who had
returned to the spot where the trail had been lost
said the Strawberry, pointing to the
former footmarks
said Malachi, after a close examination
continued Malachi to Alfred
It was not till another half-hour had elapsed that the spot where they
had left the trail, which, to deceive those who might pursue them, the
Indians had returned upon, was discovered, and then they started again,
and proceeded with caution, led by the Strawberry, until she stopped and
spoke to Malachi in the Indian tongue, pointing at a small twig broken
upon one of the bushes
In a few moments the Strawberry pointed out another
said Malachi
continued Malachi, turning to Captain Sinclair and Alfred
They continued their course through the woods until the sun went down,
and they could see no longer, having made a journey of about nine miles
from the settlement. They then lay down for the night under a large
tree; the weather was very warm, and they did not light a fire, as they
had some cooked provisions.

The next morning, as soon as it was daylight, they made a hasty meal,
and resumed their task. The trail was now pretty clear, and was
occasionally verified by the breaking of a twig, as before. This day
they made sixteen miles' journey, and at the close of it they arrived at
the borders of a lake about ten miles long, and from one-and-a-half to
two wide; the trail went right on to the shore of the lake, and then
disappeared
said Alfred
replied Malachi
exclaimed Captain Sinclair
replied
Malachi
Captain Sinclair sighed, but made no reply.

As soon as they arrived at the mass of rock which Malachi had pointed
out, they all commenced collecting fire-wood, and the Strawberry in a
few minutes had a sufficient fire for their purpose. They had not any
cooking utensils with them, but the pork was cut in slices, and stuck
upon the ends of small sticks round the fire, until it was sufficiently
cooked, and then it was packed up again in parcels, with the exception
of what was retained for their supper. They had finished their meal, and
were sitting round the embers of the fire, conversing, and calculating
the probabilities as to their overtaking the Indians, when Martin sprang
up, with his rifle ready to bring to his shoulder
said Alfred in a low tone, as Martin held up his finger as
a sign for silence
said
Martin
As Martin said this, a low and singular sort of whistle between the
teeth was heard, upon which the Strawberry gently put down Martin's
rifle with her hand, saying
said Alfred
replied Strawberry
Strawberry stepped out from the group, and went up to the tree, calling
John softly by name, and in a few seconds afterward returned, leading
John by the hand, who, without saying a word, quietly seated himself
down by the fire
exclaimed Alfred
replied John
replied John
said Captain
Sinclair
replied John
said
Martin, as the Strawberry handed some of the pork to John
replied John, with his mouth full
said Malachi
replied Malachi
said Martin
said Captain
Sinclair.

John slapped the barrel of his rifle, which was lying by him, and which
Captain Sinclair had not perceived
said Malachi
said Captain Sinclair
John having finished his supper, they all lay down to rest, one keeping
watch that they might not be surprised.

At daylight they made their breakfast, and then went down again to the
borders of the lake, where the trail had been lost. After a long
examination, Malachi called the Strawberry, and pointing to the edge of
the water, asked her to look there. The Strawberry did so, and at last
decided that there was the mark of the bottom of a canoe which had been
grounded
said Malachi
They immediately set off coasting the shore of the lake, until they
arrived at the other side, carefully examining the ground as they went.
This took them till noon, by which time they had arrived at that part of
the lake which was opposite to the large rock behind which they had
kindled their fire the night before; but no traces were to be perceived
said Captain Sinclair
This they did; and at last discovered that the canoe had crossed over to
the north point of the lake, having coasted along the eastern shore the
whole way. The spot of landing was very evident, and for some distance
they could trace where the canoe had been hauled up. It was now late in
the afternoon, and it became a question whether they should follow the
trail, or discover the place of concealment of the canoe, as it might be
advantageous to know where it was when they returned. It was decided
that they should first discover the canoe, and this was not done till
after a search of two hours, when they found it concealed in the bushes,
about one mile from the lake. They then followed the trail about two
miles; the twigs had been bent and broken, as before, which was a great
help to them, but the night was now closing in. Having arrived at a
clear knoll, they took up their quarters under the trees, and retired to
rest. At daybreak they again started; and, after two hours' walk, had to
track across a small prairie, which gave them some trouble, but they
succeeded in finding the trail on their arrival at the wood on the
opposite side, and then they made a very rapid progress, for the twigs
were now more frequently broken and bent than before. During this day,
with the bow and arrows brought by the Strawberry, Martin had procured
them two wild turkeys, which were very acceptable, as their provisions
would not last more than seven or eight days longer, and it was
impossible to say how far they would have to travel. It was not far from
dark when the quick ears of the Strawberry were attracted by a noise
like that of a person breathing heavily. She at last pointed with her
finger to a bush; they advanced cautiously, and on the other side of it
they found an Indian woman lying on the ground, bleeding profusely. They
raised her up, and discovered that it was the Indian whom they had cured
of the sprained ankle, and who, they presumed, had been then discovered
breaking the twigs that they might follow the trail, for, on examination
they found that she had received a heavy blow on the head with a
tomahawk; but, fortunately, it had glanced sidewise, and not entered
into the brain. She was not sensible, however, at the time that they
discovered her, for she had lost a great deal of blood. They stopped the
effusion of blood with bandages torn from their linen, and poured some
water down her throat; it was now dark, and it was not possible to
proceed any further that night. The Strawberry went into the woods and
collected some herbs, with which she dressed the wound, and having made
the poor Indian as comfortable as they could, they again lay down to
rest; but not until Malachi had said to Alfred
When they awoke the next morning they found the Strawberry sitting by
the Indian woman, who was now quite sensible and collected, although
very weak and exhausted. Malachi and Martin went to her, and had a long
conversation with her at intervals. Malachi had been right in his
supposition; the Angry Snake had discovered her in the act of bending a
twig, and had struck her down with his tomahawk. They gained from her
the following information. The Angry Snake, irritated at the detention
of the Young Otter, and resolved to have another hostage in lieu of him,
had carried off Mary Percival. He had six Indians with him, which were
the whole of his grown-up warriors. They were now but one day's journey
ahead of them, as Miss Percival was very sore on her feet, and they
could not get her along, but that in every other respect she had been
well treated. That the Indians were not going to their lodges in a
direct course, but by a circuitous route, which would make a difference
of at least six or seven days; and that they did this that they might
not be seen by some other tribes who were located in their direct route,
and who might give information. She said that it was she who had written
the Indian letter which Malachi had received the autumn before, and that
she had done it because she had been so kindly treated by Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell, when she had been found in the forest with her ankle sprained.
That Percival was at the Indian lodges, quite well when they left, and
that if the Angry Snake did not receive a large quantity of powder and
shot and a great many rifles in exchange for him, it was his intention
to adopt the boy, as he was very partial to him. On being asked if the
boy was happy, she replied that he was not at first, but now he was
almost an Indian; that he was seldom permitted to leave the lodges, and
never unless accompanied by the Angry Snake. In answer to their
questions as to the direction and distance to the lodges, she said that
they were about seven days' journey by the straight road; but that the
party with Miss Percival would not arrive there in less than fifteen
days, if so soon, as she was every day less able to travel. Having
obtained all this information, a council was held, and Malachi spoke
first, having been requested so to do
said Malachi
After a long parley, the advice of Malachi was considered the most
judicious, and a further conversation with the Indian woman confirmed
them in their resolution. As they had no fear of the Indians discovering
that they were on their trail, Martin and Alfred went out in pursuit of
game for provisions, while the others raised up a large hut with
branches of trees, for the accommodation of the whole party. In the
evening Martin and Alfred returned, carrying a fine buck between them.
The fire was lighted, and very soon all were busy cooking and eating.
The Indian woman also begged for something to eat, and her recovery was
now no longer considered doubtful
It was a great annoyance to Captain Sinclair to have to wait in this
manner, but there was no help for it. He was satisfied that it was the
most prudent course, and therefore raised no objection. Alfred too was
uneasy at the delay, as he was aware how anxious his father and mother
would be during the whole time of their absence. They were glad,
however, to find that the Indian woman recovered rapidly, and on the
fifth day of their taking up their abode in the forest, she said that
she was able to travel if they walked slow. It was therefore agreed that
on the sixth day they should start again, and they did so, having saved
their salt provisions, that they might not be compelled to stop, or use
their rifles to procure food. The evening before, they roasted as much
venison as they thought they could consume while it was good, and at
daylight again proceeded, not to follow the trail, but guided by the
Indian woman, in a direct course for the lodges of the Indian band under
the Angry Snake.

As they had now only to proceed as fast as they could without tiring
the poor Indian woman, whose head was bound up, and who was still weak
from loss of blood, they made a tolerable day's journey, and halted as
before. Thus they continued their route till the sixth day, when as they
drew up for the night, the Indian stated that they were only three or
four miles from the Indians' lodges, which they sought. Thereupon a
council was held as to how they should proceed, and at last it was
agreed upon that they should be guided by the Indian woman to a spot
where they might be concealed, as near as possible to the lodges, and
that when the party had arrived there, that the woman and Malachi should
go and reconnoiter, to ascertain whether the chief and his band with
Mary Percival had returned or not. The night was passed very
impatiently, and without sleep by most of them, so anxious were they for
the morrow. Long before break of day they again started, advancing with
great caution, and were led by the Indian till they were within one
hundred and fifty yards of the lodges, in a thick cluster of young
spruce, which completely secured them from discovery. Shortly afterward
Malachi and the Indian woman, creeping on all fours, disappeared in the
surrounding brush wood, that they might, if possible, gain more
intelligence from listening. In the meantime, the party had their eyes
on the lodges, waiting to see who should come out as soon as the sun
rose, for it was hardly clear daybreak when they arrived at their place
of concealment.

They had remained there about half an hour, when they perceived an
Indian lad come out of one of the lodges. He was dressed in leggins and
Indian shirt of deer skin, and carried in his hand his bow and arrows.
An eagle's feather was stuck in his hair above the left ear, which
marked him as the son of a chief
said John in a low tone
replied Alfred
whispered the Strawberry
said Alfred
Percival, for he it was, looked round for some time, and at last
perceiving a crow flying over his head, he drew his bow, and the arrow
brought the bird down at his feet
said Captain Sinclair
replied John
They waited some little time longer, when an Indian woman, and then an
old man, came out, and in about a quarter of an hour afterward, three
more women and an Indian about twenty years old
said Martin
replied Captain Sinclair
In about half an hour afterward, Malachi and the Indian woman returned;
they had crept in the brushwood to within fifty yards of the lodges, but
were afraid to go nearer, as the woman said that perhaps the dogs might
give the alarm; for two of them were left at home. The woman stated her
conviction that the party had not come back, and now a council was again
held as to their proceedings. The Indian force was nothing -- an old man,
one lad of twenty, and four women. These might be easily captured and
secured, but the question was whether it would be desirable so to do, as
in case one should by any means escape, information of their arrival
might be conveyed to the absent party, and induce them not to come home
with Mary Percival. This question was debated in a low tone between
Malachi, Captain Sinclair, and Alfred. At last John interrupted them by
saying
said Malachi
This was agreed upon, and Malachi explained their intentions to the
Indian woman, who approved of them, but said
The party remained in their place of concealment for another quarter of
an hour, till the two Indians and Percival had quitted the open space
before the lodges, and had entered the woods. They then followed in a
parallel direction, Malachi and John going ahead: Martin and Alfred
following so as to keep them in sight, and the remainder of the party at
about the same distance behind Martin and Alfred. They continued in this
manner their course through the woods for more than an hour, when a herd
of deer darted past Malachi and John. They immediately stopped, and
crouched, to hide themselves. Martin and Alfred perceiving this,
followed their example, and the rest of the party behind, at the motion
of the Strawberry, did the same. Hardly had they done so, when one of
the herd, which had been pierced by an arrow, followed in the direction
of the rest, and after a few bounds fell to the earth. A minute or two
afterward the hunters made their appearance, and stood by the expiring
beast, where they remained for a minute or two talking, and then took
out their knives to flay and cut it up. While they were thus employed,
Malachi and John on one side, Alfred and Martin from another direction,
and the rest of the party from a third, were creeping slowly up toward
them; but to surround them completely it was necessary the main party
should divide, and send one or two more to the eastward. Captain
Sinclair dispatched Graves and one of the soldiers, desiring them to
creep very softly till they arrived at a spot he pointed out, and then
to wait for the signal to be given.

As the parties gradually approached nearer and nearer to the Indians and
Percival, the Old Raven appeared to be uneasy; he looked round and round
him and once or twice laid his ear on the ground; whenever he did this,
they all stopped, and almost held their breaths
said the Strawberry to Captain Sinclair
said Captain Sinclair.

The Indian rose, and walked up in the direction of the Indians, who
immediately turned to her as she approached. She spoke to them, and
appeared to be telling them how it was that she returned. At all events,
she occupied the attention of the Old Raven till the parties were close
to them, when Malachi arose, and immediately all the others did the
same, and rushed upon them. After a short and useless struggle, they
were secured, but not before the younger Indian had wounded one of the
soldiers, by stabbing him with his knife. The thongs were already fast
round the arms and legs of the Indians, when Percival, who had not been
tied, again attempted to escape, and by the direction of Malachi, he was
bound, as well as the other two.

As soon as the prisoners were secured, Martin and Graves and the
soldiers employed themselves cutting up the venison and preparing it for
dinner, while the Strawberry and the Indian woman were collecting wood
for a fire. In the meanwhile Captain Sinclair, Malachi, and John were
seated by the prisoners, and directing their attention to Percival, whom
they had been compelled to bind, that he might not make his escape; for
his sojourn of nearly two years in the woods with the Indians, without
seeing the face of a white man, had (as has been invariably proved to be
the fact in every instance where the parties were very young) wholly
obliterated, for the time, his recollections of his former life -- so
rapid is our falling off to the savage state. To the questions of Alfred
he returned no reply, and appeared not to understand him
said Malachi
Malachi then spoke to Percival in the Indian language; Percival listened
for some time, and at last replied in the same tongue
said Alfred
said Captain Sinclair
replied Malachi
Malachi called the Strawberry, and told her to speak to Percival about
his home and his mother, and every thing connected with the farm.

The Strawberry sat down by Percival, and in her soft tones talked to him
in her own tongue of his father and mother, of his cousins, and how he
had been taken by the Indians when he was hunting; how his mother had
wept for him, and all had lamented his loss; running on in a low musical
key from one thing to another connected and associated with his former
life in the settlement, and it was evident that at last he now listened
with attention. The Strawberry continued to talk to him thus, for more
than an hour, when Alfred again addressed him and said
replied Percival in English
said Malachi
They then sat down to their meal; the two Indians were removed to a
distance under the guard of one of the soldiers, but Percival remained
with them. John sat by Percival, and cutting off a tempting bit of
venison, held it to his mouth, saying to him
This was a long speech for John, but it produced its effect, for
Percival opened his mouth for the venison, and being fed by John, made a
very good dinner. As soon as their meal was over, they consulted as to
what steps should next be taken. The question discussed was whether they
should now capture the women who were left in the lodges, or remain
quiet till the Angry Snake and his party arrived?

Malachi's opinion was as follows
This opinion was at last assented to, and they set off, on their return
to the Indian lodges. They arrived about an hour before dusk at their
hiding-place, having taken the precaution to gag the two Indians for
fear of their giving a whoop as notice of their capture. Percival was
very quiet, and had begun to talk a little with John.

Scarcely had they been five minutes again concealed among the spruce fir
trees, when they heard a distant whoop from the woods on the other side
of the lodges
said Martin
One of the Indian women from the lodges returned the whoop
said Malachi
said Alfred.

Captain Sinclair, who was very much excited, nevertheless did as he was
requested
said he
replied Captain Sinclair.

In about half an hour more, the Angry Snake and his party were seen to
emerge from the woods, and it was perceived that four of the Indians
carried a litter made of branches between them
said Malachi to Captain Sinclair
replied Captain Sinclair.

The Indians soon were over the clearing, and stopped at one of the
lodges; Mary Percival was lifted out, and was seen to walk with
difficulty into the wigwam, followed by two of the Indian women.

A short parley took place between the Angry Snake and the other two
women, and the chief and rest of the party then went into another lodge
observed Malachi
said Captain Sinclair
replied Alfred
replied Captain Sinclair
replied Alfred
said Martin
said John, in a positive manner
said Alfred
replied Malachi
They remained for about half an hour more watching the lodges, but every
thing appeared quiet, and not a single person came out. Having examined
the priming of the rifles, every man was directed to take up a certain
position, so as to surround the buildings and support each other. John
was appointed to the office of looking after his cousin Mary, and
preventing the women from escaping with her from the lodge in which she
was confined; and John took his office willingly, as he considered it
one of importance, although it had been given him more with a view that
he might not be exposed to danger. Leaving the prisoners to the charge
of the Strawberry, who, with her knife drawn, stood over them, ready to
act upon the slightest attempt of escape on their part, the whole party
now crept softly toward the lodges, by the same path as had been taken
by Malachi and the Indian woman. As soon as they had all arrived, they
waited for a few minutes, while Malachi reconnoitered, and when they
perceived that he did so, they all rose up and hastened to their
allotted stations round the lodge into which the Angry Snake and his
followers had entered. The Indians appeared to be asleep, for every
thing remained quiet
whispered
Captain Sinclair
said Alfred
Captain Sinclair hastened to the lodge in which Miss Percival had been
placed, and opened the door. Mary Percival, as soon as she beheld
Captain Sinclair, uttered a loud scream of delight, and, rising from
the skins on which she had been laid, fell upon his neck. Captain
Sinclair caught her in his arms, and was bearing her out of the lodge,
when an Indian woman caught him by the coat; but John, who had entered,
putting the muzzle of his rifle into their faces, they let go and
retreated, and Captain Sinclair bore away Mary in his arms into the
brushwood, where the Strawberry was standing over the Indian prisoners.
The scream of Mary Percival had roused the Indians, who, after their
exhaustion and privations, were in a sound sleep; but still no movement
was to be heard in the lodge, and a debate, between Malachi and Alfred,
whether they should enter the lodge or not, was put an end to by a rifle
being fired from the lodge, and the fall of one of the soldiers, who was
next to Alfred. Another shot followed, and Martin received a bullet in
his shoulder, and then out bounded the Angry Snake, followed by his
band, the chief whirling his tomahawk, and springing upon Malachi, while
the others attacked Alfred and Martin, who were nearest to the door of
the lodge. The rifle of Malachi met the breast of the Angry Snake as he
advanced, and the contents were discharged through his body. The other
Indians fought desperately, but the whole of the attacking party closing
in, they were overpowered. Only two of them, however, were taken alive,
and these were seriously wounded. They were tied and laid on the ground
said Malachi, who was standing over the body of
the Indian chief
inquired Alfred
said Graves, who was kneeling by the side of
the soldier who had been shot by the first rifle
exclaimed Alfred
said Malachi
replied John, who with Graves, immediately commenced his search
of the lodges.

The two women, who had been in the lodge with Mary Percival, had
remained where they were, as John's rifle had kept them from leaving the
lodge; but the other two had escaped into the woods during the affray.
This was of little consequence; indeed, the others were told that they
might go away, if they would; and as soon as they heard this from
Malachi, they followed the example of their companions. John and Graves
brought out all the arms they could find, and Malachi and Alfred then
went to the bushes to which Mary Percival and Sinclair had previously
retired. Alfred embraced his cousin, who was still too greatly agitated
to say much, being almost overpowered by the sudden transition in all
her thoughts and feelings:-- and, in the variety of her emotions, perhaps
the most bewildering was that occasioned by the re-appearance of
Percival,-- like a restoration from the dead. Alfred was in consultation
with Malachi, when he perceived the flames bursting out of the lodges.
Martin, as soon as his wound was dressed, had returned and set fire to
them
said Malachi
said Mary Percival
Not one of the party slept much on this night. There was much to do, and
much to be looked after. Captain Sinclair, as it may be supposed, was
fully occupied with Mary Percival, of whom more anon. As soon as they
had taken up their position in the clearing, and made arrangements for
the accommodation of Mary, they relieved the Strawberry from her charge
of the prisoners, whom they brought to the clearing, and made to sit
down close to them. Percival, who had not yet been freed from his bonds,
was now untied, and suffered to walk about, one of the men keeping close
to him, and watching him carefully. The first object which caught his
eye, was the body of the Angry Snake. Percival looked on it for some
time, and then sat down by the side of it. There he remained for more
than two hours, without speaking, when a hole having been dug out by one
of the party, the body was put in and covered up. Percival remained a
few minutes by the side of the grave, and then turned to the two
wounded Indians. He brought them water, and spoke to them in the Indian
tongue; but while he was still with them, Mary sent for him to speak
with him, for as yet she had scarcely seen him. The sight of Mary
appeared to have a powerful effect upon the boy; he listened to her as
she soothed and caressed him, and appearing to be overcome with a
variety of sensations, he lay down, moaned, and at last fell fast
asleep.

The soldier who had been shot by the Angry Snake was buried before they
buried the chief. Martin's wound had been dressed by his wife, the
Strawberry, who was very skillful in Indian surgery. She had previously
applied cataplasms made from the bruised leaves which she and the Indian
woman had sought for, to the feet of Mary Percival, which were in a
state of great inflammation, and Mary had found herself already much
relieved by the application. Before the day dawned, the two Indians who
had been wounded, were dead, and were immediately buried by the side of
the chief.

Alfred and Malachi had resolved to set off the next morning, on their
return home, if they found it possible to convey Mary Percival; but
their party was now reduced, as one of the soldiers had been killed, and
Martin was incapable of service. The Indian woman would also be fully
loaded with the extra rifles, the two which they had captured from the
Indians, the one belonging to the soldier, and Martin's, who could not
carry any thing in his present state.

They were now only six effective men, as John could not be of much use
in carrying, and, moreover, was appointed to watch Percival. Then they
had the two prisoners to take charge of, so that they were somewhat
embarrassed. Malachi, however, proposed that they should make a litter
of boughs, welded together very tight, and suspended on a pole so as to
be carried between two men. Mary Percival was not a very great weight,
and, by relieving each other continually, they would be able to get some
miles every day, till Mary was well enough to walk with them. Alfred
assented to this, and, as soon as it was daylight, went into the woods
with Malachi, to assist him in cutting the boughs. On their return, they
found that all the rest of the party were up, and that Mary felt little
or no pain. They made their breakfast on their salt provisions, which
were now nearly expended, and as soon as their meal was over, they put
Mary upon the litter and set off, taking the Indian prisoners with them,
as they thought it not yet advisable to give them their liberty. The
first day they made but a few miles, as they were obliged to stop, that
they might procure some food. The party were left under a large tree,
which was a good land-mark, under the charge of Captain Sinclair, while
Malachi and Alfred went in search of game. At nightfall they returned
with a deer which they had killed, when the Strawberry informed them
that the Indian woman had told her, that about two miles to the
southward there was a river which ran into the lake, and that there were
two canoes belonging to the band, hauled up in the bushes on the beach;
that the river was broad and swift, and would soon take them to the
lake, by the shores of which they could paddle the canoe to the
settlement. This appeared worthy of consideration, as it would in the
end, perhaps, save time, and at all events allow Mary Percival to
recover. They decided that they would go to the river, and take the
canoes, as the Indian woman said that they were large enough to hold
them all.

The next morning, guided by the Indian woman, they set off in the
direction of the river, and arrived at it in the afternoon. They found
the canoes, which were large, and in good order, and having carried them
down to the beach, they resolved to put off their embarkation till the
following day, as they were again in want of provisions for their
subsistence. Alfred, Malachi and John went out this time, for Percival
had shown himself so quiet and contented, and had gradually become so
fond of being near Mary Percival, that he appeared to have awakened from
his Indian dream, and renewed all his former associations. They did not,
therefore, think it necessary to watch him any more -- indeed, he never
would leave Mary's side, and began now to ask many questions, which
proved that he had recalled to mind much of what had been forgotten
during his long sojourn with the Indians. The hunters returned, having
been very successful, and loaded with meat enough to last for four or
five days. At daylight the next morning, they led the prisoners about
half a mile into the woods, and, pointing to the north as to the
direction they were to go, cast loose the deer-thongs which confined
them, and set them at liberty. Having done this, they embarked in the
canoes, and were soon gliding rapidly down the stream.

The river upon which they embarked, at that time little known to the
Europeans, is now called the river Thames, and the town built upon it is
named London. It falls into the upper part of Lake Ontario, and is a
fine rapid stream. For three days they paddled their canoes,
disembarking at night to sleep and cook their provisions, and on the
fourth they were compelled to stop, that they might procure more food.
They were successful, and on the next day they entered the lake, about
two hundred miles to the west of the settlement. Mary Percival was now
quite recovered, and found her journey or voyage delightful; the country
was in full beauty; the trees waved their boughs down to the river side,
and they did not fall in with any Indians, or perceive any lodges on the
bank. Sometimes they started the deer which had come down to drink in
the stream, and on one occasion, as they rounded a point, they fell in
with a herd which were in the water swimming across, and in this
position they destroyed as many as they required for their food till
they hoped to arrive at the settlement.

Percival was now quite reconciled to his removal from an Indian life,
and appeared most anxious to rejoin his father and mother, of whom he
talked incessantly; for he had again recovered his English, which,
strange to say, although he perfectly understood it when spoken to, he
had almost forgotten to pronounce, and at first spoke with difficulty.
The weather was remarkably fine, and the waters of the lake were so
smooth, that they made rapid progress, although they invariably
disembarked at night. The only annoyance they had was from the
musquitoes, which rose in clouds as soon as they landed, and were not
to be dispersed until they had lighted a very large fire, accompanied
with thick smoke; but this was a trifle compared with their joy at the
happy deliverance of the prisoners, and success of their expedition.
Most grateful, indeed, were they to God for his mercies, and none more
so than Mary Percival and Captain Sinclair, who never left her side till
it was time to retire to rest.

On the sixth day, in the forenoon, they were delighted to perceive Fort
Frontignac in the distance, and although the house at the settlement was
hid from their sight by the point covered with wood which intervened,
they knew that they were not above four or five miles distant. In less
than another hour, they were abreast of the prairie, and landed at the
spot where their own punt was moored. Mr. and Mrs. Campbell had not
perceived the canoes, for, although anxiously looking out every day for
the return of the party, their eyes and attention were directed on land,
not having any idea of their return by water
said Mary
Having made these arrangements, to which Percival was with difficulty
made to agree, they walked up as proposed, to the house. Outside of the
palisade, they perceived Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, with their backs toward
them, looking toward the forest, in the direction which the party had
taken when they left. But when they were half-way from the beach, Henry
came out with Oscar from the cottage, and the dog, immediately
perceiving them, bounded to them, barking with delight. Henry cried out
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell
of course turned round, and beheld the party advancing; they flew to
meet them, and as they caught Mary in their arms, all explanation for a
time was unnecessary -- she was recovered, and that was sufficient for the
time
said Alfred,-- that she might not perceive Percival among the
party that followed at a distance
Mrs. Campbell, who trembled very much, did so, and thus turned away from
the group among whom Percival was walking. Emma was looking at them
attentively, and was about to exclaim, when Captain Sinclair put his
finger to his lips.

As soon as they arrived at the house, and had gone in, Alfred, in a few
words, gave them an account of what had passed -- how successful they had
been in their attempt, and how little they had to fear from the Indians
in future
exclaimed Mrs. Campbell
said Alfred
said Mrs. Campbell, seizing
Alfred by the arm
said Mrs. Campbell
continued Mrs. Campbell, Alfred made
no reply, but a flood of tears came to her relief
replied Emma,
extending her hand to him
said Mrs. Campbell
Alfred left the house: the intelligence was almost too overpowering for
Mrs. Campbell. Mary and Emma hastened to her, and supported her. In
another minute Alfred returned with Percival, and the mother embraced
and wept over her long lost child,-- and then gave him to his father's
arms
said Mr. Campbell, when their first
emotions were over
Mr. Campbell kneeled down, and his example was followed by all the rest
of the party assembled. In a fervent tone he returned thanks for the
recent mercies vouchsafed to his family, which, he expressed a hope,
would never be forgotten, but would prove a powerful inducement to them
all, to lead a more devout life of faith in Him who had so graciously
supported them in the hour of peril and affliction,-- who had so
wonderfully restored to them their lost treasures, and turned all their
gloom into sunshine,-- filling their hearts with joy and gladness
said Mrs. Campbell, whose arms still
encircled the neck of Percival
Alfred then entered into his detail, first stating the knowledge which
Captain Sinclair, Malachi, and himself had of Percival being still in
existence from the letter written by the Indian woman,-- the seizure and
confinement of the Young Otter in consequence, which was retaliated by
the abduction of Mary. When he had finished, Mr. Campbell said
said Mr. Campbell
replied Sinclair
exclaimed Emma
replied Mary,
kissing her
continued
Mary
When Mary Percival had finished her narrative, they all sat down to
supper, and it hardly need be said that Mr. Campbell did not fail,
before they retired to rest, again to pour forth his thanksgivings to
the Almighty for the preservation of those who were so dear. The next
morning, they all rose in health and spirits. Martin came early to the
house with the Strawberry; his wound was much better, and he received
the thanks and condolence of Mr. and Mrs. Campbell.

When they were at breakfast, Mr. Campbell said
said Malachi
replied Mr. Campbell
said Captain
Sinclair
replied Mr. Campbell
Captain Sinclair took his leave, as it may be imagined, very
reluctantly, and in a day or two the family again settled down to their
usual occupations. The emigrants had, during the absence of the
expedition, gathered in a great portion of the corn, and now all hands
were employed in finishing the harvest
said Emma to her sister, as they were
walking by the stream watching John, who was catching trout
replied Emma
Captain Sinclair on his return to Fort Frontignac reported to the
Colonel the successful result of the expedition, and was warmly
congratulated upon it, as the Colonel had been made acquainted with the
engagement between him and Mary Percival. The Young Otter, who had
remained in confinement during Captain Sinclair's absence, was now set
at liberty; and the Colonel, who was aware that Captain Sinclair must be
very anxious to remain at the settlement for a short time after what had
occurred, very kindly offered him leave for a few days, which it may be
supposed Captain Sinclair did not fail to avail himself of. The Colonel
at the same time sent a message to Mr. Campbell, stating that as soon as
the _bateaux_ should arrive from Montreal, he would bring any letters or
newspapers that might arrive for them, and take that opportunity of
offering in person his congratulations.

Captain Sinclair did not, however, return for two or three days, as he
had many letters to write in answer to those which had arrived during
his absence. On his return to the settlement, he found them all well
and happy; Mary quite recovered from her fatigue, and every thing going
on in the same quiet order and method as if the expedition had never
taken place, and had never been necessary. Indeed, nothing appeared now
wanting to the happiness of the whole party, and their affairs were
prospering. The emigrants who had joined Mr. Campbell were industrious
and intelligent, very civil, and very useful. They paid the greatest
respect to Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, who were certainly very liberal and
kind to them, assisting them in every way in their power. Although the
farm had been so much increased, the labor was light, from the quantity
of hands they could command; the stock had increased very fast; old
Graves had taken charge of the mill during the absence of Alfred and
Martin, and had expressed his wish to continue in that employment, which
Alfred gladly gave up. In short, peace and plenty reigned in the
settlement, and Alfred's words when he recommended his father to go to
Canada, had every prospect of becoming true -- that his father would be
independent, if not rich, and leave his children the same. In three days
Captain Sinclair arrived; he was received with great warmth by all the
party, and after dinner was over, Mr. Campbell addressed the family as
follows
Mary, who was sitting between Mrs. Campbell and Captain Sinclair, fell
upon her aunt's neck and wept; Mr. Campbell extended his hand to Captain
Sinclair, who expressed in return his warmest thanks and gratitude.
Alfred, who had said nothing more, went up to his mother and kissed
her
said his mother
said Mr. Campbell, shaking him by the hand
Mrs. Campbell now took Mary Percival into the next room, that she might
compose herself, and Captain Sinclair ventured to follow. Every one
appeared happy at this announcement of Mr. Campbell except Emma, who
looked unusually serious. Alfred, perceiving it, said to her
replied Emma, half angry
Emma did not, however, finish her speech, but left the room, to join her
sister.

Now that Mr. Campbell had announced his wishes, the subject of Mary's
marriage and Alfred's return to the service was, for a few days, the
continual subject of discussion. It was decided that Mary should be
married in a month, by the chaplain of the fort, who had returned, and
that Captain Sinclair, with his wife and Alfred, should leave the
settlement at the end of September, so as to arrive at Quebec in good
time for sailing before the winter should set in. It was now the last
week in August, so that there was not much time to pass away previous to
their departure. Captain Sinclair returned to the fort, to make the
Colonel acquainted with what had passed, and to take the necessary steps
for leave of absence, and his return to England. This, from his interest
with the Governor, he was sure to obtain, and when in England, it would
be time sufficient to decide whether he should leave that service or
exchange into some regiment at home. As every prospect of war or
disturbance in Canada was now over, he could take either step without
any censure being laid upon him.

A week afterward, the _bateaux_ arrived from Montreal, and the Colonel
and Captain Sinclair made their appearance at the settlement, bringing
with them the letters and papers from England.

Having received the congratulations of the Colonel, Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell, with his permission, opened their letters, for all the family
were present, and all, as usual, anxious to hear the news. The first
letter Mr. Campbell opened, to the surprise of all, produced an
immediate change in his countenance. He read it a second time, and
laying it down on his knee, appeared to remain in a state of complete
abstraction
said his wife anxiously, as all the
rest looked upon him with astonishment
Mr. Campbell then read as follows
said the Colonel,
rising up, and taking his hand
Surprise at first rendered Mrs. Campbell mute; at last she said
replied Mr. Campbell
said John
cried Percival.

The Colonel and Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, as well as the elder portion of
the party, could not help smiling at the exclamation of the two boys.
They had both played the part of men, and it was but too evident how
unfitted they would be for future scholastic discipline
replied Mr. Campbell
It is hard to say whether much real joy was felt by any of the party at
the prospect of returning to England. It is true that Mary Percival was
delighted at the idea of not being so far from her aunt and uncle, and
that Emma was better pleased to be in England, for reasons which she
kept to herself. But it was not the coming into the large property which
occasioned pleasure to any of them. However, if there was not much
pleasure derived from this re-accession to property, Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell knew their duty too well to hesitate, and every preparation was
commenced for their return along with Alfred and Captain Sinclair. John,
however, still continued obstinate in declaring that he would not go,
and Percival was very much of John's opinion, although he did not speak
so plainly.

When Mr. and Mrs. Campbell were alone, the former said to his wife
replied Mr. Campbell
The result of Mrs. Campbell's communicating with her sons, was a
decision that John should remain in Canada, under the charge of Martin
and Malachi, who were to superintend the farm, and watch over him.
Martin was to take charge of the farm. Malachi was to be John's
companion in the woods, and old Graves, who had their mill under his
care, engaged to correspond with Mr. Campbell, and let them know how
things went on. When this was settled, John walked at least two inches
higher, and promised to write to his mother himself. The Colonel, when
he heard the arrangement, pledged himself that as long as he was in
command of the fort, he would keep a watchful eye, not only over John,
but the whole of the settlement, and communicate occasionally with Mr.
Campbell.

A month after the receipt of the letter, the whole family, with the
exception of John, embarked in two _bateaux_, and arrived at Montreal,
where they remained a day or two, and then proceeded on to Quebec.

At Quebec, their agent had already taken all the cabins of one of the
finest ships for their passage, and after a run of six weeks, they once
more found themselves at Liverpool, from which town they posted to
Wexton Hall, Mrs. Douglas Campbell having retired to a property of her
own in Scotland.

We have now finished our tale, and have only to inform our little
readers what were the after-lives of the Campbell family.

Henry did not return to college, but remained with his father and mother
at the Hall, employing himself in superintending for his father the
property to which he afterward succeeded.

Alfred was appointed to a ship commanded by Captain Lumley. He soon rose
in the service, was highly distinguished as a gallant, clever officer,
and four years after his return to England was married to his cousin
Emma -- at which the reader will not be surprised.

Mary Percival was married to Captain Sinclair, who sold out, and retired
upon half-pay, to live upon his estate in Scotland.

Percival went to college, and turned out a very clever lawyer.

John remained in Canada until he was twenty years old, when he came home
to see his father and mother. He had grown to six feet four inches high,
and was stout in proportion. He was a very amusing fellow, and could
talk fast enough, but his chief conversation was upon hunting and
sporting. The farm had been well conducted; the emigrants had adhered to
the agreements and were now cultivating for themselves. Martin had three
papooses (as the Indians call the children) by the Strawberry. Malachi
had grown too old to go out often into the woods, and he sat by the fire
in the winter, and basked in the sun at the door of the house during the
summer. Oscar was dead, but they had some fine puppies of his breed. Mr.
Campbell gave John a deed, on his return, conveying to him the Canadian
property, and shortly afterward John picked up a little Canadian wife at
Quebec, who made him perfectly happy.

Mr. and Mrs. Campbell lived to a good old age, respected as long as they
lived, and lamented when they died. They had known prosperity and
adversity, and in each state of life had acquitted themselves with
exemplary propriety, not having been elated by the one, or depressed by
the other. They knew that this world was a world of trial, and but a
preparation for another; they therefore did their duty in that state of
life to which it pleased God to call them -- proving in all their actions,
that they remembered their duty to their God, and their duty to their
neighbor; living and dying (as I hope all my young readers will) sincere
and good Christians
</text>
