<text>
IT WAS A LITTLE BOAT.&rsqb;






TO

MARY JOSEPHINE,

AND TO THE DEAR MEMORY OF HER BROTHER,

THOMAS GRINDAL,

BOTH FRIENDLY LITTLE CRITICS OF
MY CHILDREN'S STORIES.

Edinburgh, 1877
Once upon a time in an old town, in an old street, there stood a very
old house. Such a house as you could hardly find nowadays, however you
searched, for it belonged to a gone-by time -- a time now quite passed
away.

It stood in a street, but yet it was not like a town house, for though
the front opened right on to the pavement, the back windows looked out
upon a beautiful, quaintly terraced garden, with old trees growing so
thick and close together that in summer it was like living on the edge
of a forest to be near them; and even in winter the web of their
interlaced branches hid all clear view behind.

There was a colony of rooks in this old garden. Year after year they
held their parliaments and cawed and chattered and fussed; year after
year they built their nests and hatched their eggs; year after year, I
_suppose_, the old ones gradually died off and the young ones took their
place, though, but for knowing this _must_ be so, no one would have
suspected it, for to all appearance the rooks were always the same -- ever
and always the same.

Time indeed seemed to stand still in and all about the old house, as if
it and the people who inhabited it had got _so_ old that they could not
get any older, and had outlived the possibility of change.

But one day at last there did come a change. Late in the dusk of an
autumn afternoon a carriage drove up to the door of the old house, came
rattling over the stones with a sudden noisy clatter that sounded quite
impertinent, startling the rooks just as they were composing themselves
to rest, and setting them all wondering what could be the matter.

A little girl was the matter! A little girl in a grey merino frock and
grey beaver bonnet, grey tippet and grey gloves -- all grey together, even
to her eyes, all except her round rosy face and bright brown hair. Her
name even was rather grey, for it was Griselda.

A gentleman lifted her out of the carriage and disappeared with her into
the house, and later that same evening the gentleman came out of the
house and got into the carriage which had come back for him again, and
drove away. That was all that the rooks saw of the change that had come
to the old house. Shall we go inside to see more?

Up the shallow, wide, old-fashioned staircase, past the wainscoted
walls, dark and shining like a mirror, down a long narrow passage with
many doors, which but for their gleaming brass handles one would not
have known were there, the oldest of the three old servants led little
Griselda, so tired and sleepy that her supper had been left almost
untasted, to the room prepared for her. It was a queer room, for
everything in the house was queer; but in the dancing light of the fire
burning brightly in the tiled grate, it looked cheerful enough
said the child
The old servant shook her head
she said
said Griselda
The old servant smiled
she said
said Griselda
replied the old woman
cried Griselda, her eyes sparkling
answered the old woman
thought Griselda, as she got
into bed
The very same thought that had occurred to the rooks! They could not
decide as to the fors and againsts at all, so they settled to put it to
the vote the next morning, and in the meantime they and Griselda all
went to sleep.

I never heard if _they_ slept well that night; after such unusual
excitement it was hardly to be expected they would. But Griselda, being
a little girl and not a rook, was so tired that two minutes after she
had tucked herself up in bed she was quite sound asleep, and did not
wake for several hours
was her last
waking thought
As sometimes happens, when she woke again, very early in the morning,
long before it was light, her thoughts went straight on with the same
subject
she repeated to herself, just as if
she had not been asleep at all -- like the man who fell into a trance for
a hundred years just as he was saying
and when he woke up
again finished the sentence as if nothing had happened
thought Griselda.

Just as she had got so far in her thoughts, she gave a great start. What
was it she heard? Could her wish have come true? Was this fairyland
indeed that she had got to, where one only needs to _wish_, for it to
_be_? She rubbed her eyes, but it was too dark to see; _that_ was not
very fairyland-like, but her ears she felt certain had not deceived her:
she was quite, quite sure that she had heard the cuckoo!

She listened with all her might, but she did not hear it again. Could
it, after all, have been fancy? She grew sleepy at last, and was just
dropping off when -- yes, there it was again, as clear and distinct as
possible
three, four, _five_ times, then
perfect silence as before
said Griselda to herself
And, with a pleasant feeling of companionship, a sense that she was not
the only living creature awake in this dark world, Griselda lay
listening, contentedly enough, for the sweet, fresh notes of the
cuckoo's friendly greeting. But before it sounded again through the
silent house she was once more fast asleep. And this time she slept till
daylight had found its way into all but the _very_ darkest nooks and
crannies of the ancient dwelling.

She dressed herself carefully, for she had been warned that her aunts
loved neatness and precision; she fastened each button of her grey
frock, and tied down her hair as smooth as such a brown tangle _could_
be tied down; and, absorbed with these weighty cares, she forgot all
about the cuckoo for the time. It was not till she was sitting at
breakfast with her aunts that she remembered it, or rather was reminded
of it, by some little remark that was made about the friendly robins on
the terrace walk outside
she exclaimed, stopping short half-way the journey to her
mouth of a spoonful of bread and milk
repeated her elder aunt, Miss Grizzel
echoed Miss Tabitha
said Griselda
The aunts looked at each other with a little smile
they whispered. Then said Miss Grizzel
repeated Miss Tabitha, as if to confirm her sister's
statement
exclaimed Griselda, opening her grey eyes very wide.

It sounded something like the three bears, all speaking one after the
other, only Griselda's voice was not like Tiny's; it was the loudest of
the three
she exclaimed
said Miss Grizzel
replied Griselda, looking puzzled
pursued Miss Grizzel
said Griselda, going on with her bread and
milk
said Miss Tabitha
said Griselda. It was rather a bother to have
always to say
or
twice, but Griselda
thought it was polite to do so, as Aunt Tabitha always repeated
everything that Aunt Grizzel said. It wouldn't have mattered so much if
Aunt Tabitha had said it _at once_ after Miss Grizzel, but as she
generally made a little pause between, it was sometimes rather awkward.
But of course it was better to say "thank you" or "no, thank you" twice
over than to hurt Aunt Tabitha's feelings.

After breakfast Aunt Grizzel was as good as her word. She took Griselda
through several of the rooms in the house, pointing out all the
curiosities, and telling all the histories of the rooms and their
contents; and Griselda liked to listen, only in every room they came
to, she wondered _when_ they would get to the room where lived the
cuckoo.

Aunt Tabitha did not come with them, for she was rather rheumatic. On
the whole, Griselda was not sorry. It would have taken such a _very_
long time, you see, to have had all the histories twice over, and
possibly, if Griselda had got tired, she might have forgotten about the
"thank you's" or "no, thank you's" twice over.

The old house looked quite as queer and quaint by daylight as it had
seemed the evening before; almost more so indeed, for the view from the
windows added to the sweet, odd "old-fashionedness" of everything
observed Miss Grizzel, catching
sight of the direction in which the child's eyes were wandering
said Griselda
Miss Grizzel looked pleased
she explained.

They were just then standing in what she called the
a
handsome old room, furnished with gold-and-white chairs, that must once
have been brilliant, and faded yellow damask hangings. A feeling of awe
had crept over Griselda as they entered this ancient drawing-room. What
grand parties there must have been in it long ago! But as for dancing in
it _now_ -- dancing, or laughing, or chattering -- such a thing was quite
impossible to imagine!

Miss Grizzel crossed the room to where stood in one corner a marvellous
Chinese cabinet, all black and gold and carving. It was made in the
shape of a temple, or a palace -- Griselda was not sure which. Any way, it
was very delicious and wonderful. At the door stood, one on each side,
two solemn mandarins; or, to speak more correctly, perhaps I should
say, a mandarin and his wife, for the right-hand figure was evidently
intended to be a lady.

Miss Grizzel gently touched their heads. Forthwith, to Griselda's
astonishment, they began solemnly to nod
she exclaimed
replied Miss Grizzel mysteriously
Griselda wondered, if this were so, how it was that Miss Grizzel took
such liberties with them herself, but she said nothing
continued Miss Grizzel, touching
a great china jar on a little stand, close beside the cabinet
Nothing loth, Griselda buried her round little nose in the fragrant
leaves
she said
replied her aunt
said Griselda meekly.

Miss Grizzel led the way to a door opposite to that by which they had
entered. She opened it and passed through, Griselda following, into a
small ante-room
said Miss Grizzel, consulting her watch
The cuckoo
Griselda gazed round her eagerly.
Where was the clock? She could see nothing in the least like one, only
up on the wall in one corner was what looked like a miniature house, of
dark brown carved wood. It was not so _very_ like a house, but it
certainly had a roof -- a roof with deep projecting eaves; and, looking
closer, yes, it _was_ a clock, after all, only the figures, which had
once been gilt, had grown dim with age, like everything else, and the
hands at a little distance were hardly to be distinguished from the
face.

Miss Grizzel stood perfectly still, looking up at the clock; Griselda
beside her, in breathless expectation. Presently there came a sort of
distant rumbling. _Something_ was going to happen. Suddenly two little
doors above the clock face, which Griselda had not known were there,
sprang open with a burst and out flew a cuckoo, flapped his wings, and
uttered his pretty cry
Miss Grizzel counted
aloud
she
added triumphantly
exclaimed Griselda
she said earnestly
Again Miss Grizzel smiled, the same odd yet pleased smile that Griselda
had seen on her face at breakfast
she
murmured
she added aloud
inquired Griselda, looking puzzled
replied
Miss Grizzel
asked Griselda, who felt as if she could spend all day looking up at the
clock, watching for her little friend's appearance
said her aunt
So saying, Miss Grizzel opened a second door in the little ante-room,
and, to Griselda's surprise, at the foot of a short flight of stairs
through another door, half open, she caught sight of her Aunt Tabitha,
knitting quietly by the fire, in the room in which they had breakfasted
she said, as she
followed her aunt down the steps
said her aunt encouragingly
thought Griselda
It was all very well for a few days. Griselda found plenty to amuse
herself with while the novelty lasted, enough to prevent her missing
_very_ badly the home she had left
and the troop of
noisy merry brothers who teased and petted her. Of course she _missed_
them, but not
She was neither homesick nor
It was not quite such smooth sailing when lessons began. She did not
dislike lessons; in fact, she had always thought she was rather fond of
them. But the having to do them alone was not lively, and her teachers
were very strict. The worst of all was the writing and arithmetic
master, a funny little old man who wore knee-breeches and took snuff,
and called her aunt
bowing formally whenever he addressed her.
He screwed Griselda up into such an unnatural attitude to write her
copies, that she really felt as if she would never come straight and
loose again; and the arithmetic part of his instructions was even worse.
Oh! what sums in addition he gave her! Griselda had never been partial
to sums, and her rather easy-going governess at home had not, to tell
the truth, been partial to them either. And Mr.-- I can't remember the
little old gentleman's name. Suppose we call him Mr. Kneebreeches -- Mr.
Kneebreeches, when he found this out, conscientiously put her back to
the very beginning.

It was dreadful, really. He came twice a week, and the days he didn't
come were as bad as those he did, for he left her a whole _row_ I was
going to say, but you couldn't call Mr. Kneebreeches' addition sums
they were far too fat and wide across to be so spoken of!-- whole
slatefuls of these terrible mountains of figures to climb wearily to the
top of. And not to climb _once_ up merely. _The_ terrible thing was Mr.
Kneebreeches' favourite method of what he called
I can't
explain it -- it is far beyond my poor powers -- but it had something to do
with cutting off the top line, after you had added it all up and had
actually done the sum, you understand -- cutting off the top line and
adding the long rows up again without it, and then joining it on again
somewhere else
said poor Griselda, one day
said her aunt gravely
muttered Griselda
Miss Grizzel fortunately was a little deaf; she did not hear this
remark. Just then the cuckoo clock struck eleven
said Miss Grizzel
and so saying she
left the room.

The cuckoo was still telling the hour -- eleven took a good while. It
seemed to Griselda that the bird repeated her aunt's last words
he said
exclaimed Griselda in a passion
She seized a book, the first that came to hand, and flung it at the bird
who was just beginning his eleventh cuckoo. He disappeared with a snap,
disappeared without flapping his wings, or, as Griselda always fancied
he did, giving her a friendly nod, and in an instant all was silent.

Griselda felt a little frightened. What had she done? She looked up at
the clock. It seemed just the same as usual, the cuckoo's doors closely
shut, no sign of any disturbance. Could it have been her fancy only that
he had sprung back more hastily than he would have done but for her
throwing the book at him? She began to hope so, and tried to go on with
her lessons. But it was no use. Though she really gave her best
attention to the long addition sums, and found that by so doing she
managed them much better than before, she could not feel happy or at
ease. Every few minutes she glanced up at the clock, as if expecting the
cuckoo to come out, though she knew quite well there was no chance of
his doing so till twelve o'clock, as it was only the hours, not the half
hours and quarters, that he told
she said to herself anxiously more than
once.

If only the clock had not been so very high up on the wall, she would
have been tempted to climb up and open the little doors, and peep in to
satisfy herself as to the cuckoo's condition. But there was no
possibility of this. The clock was far, very far above her reach, and
there was no high piece of furniture standing near, upon which she could
have climbed to get to it. There was nothing to be done but to wait for
twelve o'clock.

And, after all, she did not wait for twelve o'clock, for just about
half-past eleven, Miss Grizzel's voice was heard calling to her to put
on her hat and cloak quickly, and come out to walk up and down the
terrace with her
said Miss Grizzel
said Griselda, meekly
inquired her aunt
replied Griselda
said Miss Grizzel.

Poor Griselda! There were few things she disliked more than a drive with
her aunts. They went in the old yellow chariot, with all the windows up,
and of course Griselda had to sit with her back to the horses, which
made her very uncomfortable when she had no air, and had to sit still
for so long.

Merrybrow Hall was a large house, quite as old and much grander, but not
nearly so wonderful as the home of Griselda's aunts. It was six miles
off, and it took a very long time indeed to drive there in the rumbling
old chariot, for the old horses were fat and wheezy, and the old
coachman fat and wheezy too. Lady Lavander was, of course, old too -- very
old indeed, and rather grumpy and very deaf. Miss Grizzel and Miss
Tabitha had the greatest respect for her; she always called them
as if they were quite girls, and they listened to all she said as
if her words were of gold. For some mysterious reason she had been
invited to be Griselda's godmother; but, as she had never shown her any
proof of affection beyond giving her a prayer-book, and hoping, whenever
she saw her, that she was
Griselda did not feel
any particular cause for gratitude to her.

The drive seemed longer and duller than ever this afternoon, but
Griselda bore it meekly; and when Lady Lavander, as usual, expressed her
hopes about her, the little girl looked down modestly, feeling her
cheeks grow scarlet
she felt
inclined to call out
What _would_ the three old ladies have thought if she had called it out?
As it was, Lady Lavander patted her approvingly, said she loved to see
young people modest and humble-minded, and gave her a slice of very
highly-spiced, rather musty gingerbread, which Griselda couldn't bear.

All the way home Griselda felt in a fever of impatience to rush up to
the ante-room and see if the cuckoo was all right again. It was late and
dark when the chariot at last stopped at the door of the old house. Miss
Grizzel got out slowly, and still more slowly Miss Tabitha followed
her. Griselda was obliged to restrain herself and move demurely
said Miss Grizzel
Griselda obediently wished her aunts good-night, and went quietly
upstairs. But once out of sight, at the first landing, she changed her
pace. She turned to the left instead of to the right, which led to her
own room, and flew rather than ran along the dimly-lighted passage, at
the end of which a door led into the great saloon. She opened the door.
All was quite dark. It was impossible to fly or run across the great
saloon! Even in daylight this would have been a difficult matter.
Griselda _felt_ her way as best she could, past the Chinese cabinet and
the pot-pourri jar, till she got to the ante-room door. It was open, and
now, knowing her way better, she hurried in. But what was the use? All
was silent, save the tick-tick of the cuckoo clock in the corner. Oh, if
_only_ the cuckoo would come out and call the hour as usual, what a
weight would be lifted off Griselda's heart!

She had no idea what o'clock it was. It might be close to the hour, or
it might be just past it. She stood listening for a few minutes, then
hearing Miss Grizzel's voice in the distance, she felt that she dared
not stay any longer, and turned to feel her way out of the room again.
Just as she got to the door it seemed to her that something softly
brushed her cheek, and a very, very faint "cuckoo" sounded as it were in
the air close to her.

Startled, but not frightened, Griselda stood perfectly still
she said, softly. But there was no answer.

Again the tones of Miss Grizzel's voice coming upstairs reached her
ear
said Griselda; and finding her way across the saloon
without, by great good luck, tumbling against any of the many breakable
treasures with which it was filled, she flew down the long passage
again, reaching her own room just before Dorcas appeared with her
supper.

Griselda slept badly that night. She was constantly dreaming of the
cuckoo, fancying she heard his voice, and then waking with a start to
find it was _only_ fancy. She looked pale and heavy-eyed when she came
down to breakfast the next morning; and her Aunt Tabitha, who was alone
in the room when she entered, began immediately asking her what was the
matter
she said, nervously
But the rest of Miss Tabitha's sentence was never heard, for at this
moment Miss Grizzel came hurriedly into the room -- her cap awry, her
shawl disarranged, her face very pale. I hardly think any one had ever
seen her so discomposed before
she exclaimed
repeated Miss Tabitha, holding up her
hands
said Miss Tabitha
Miss Grizzel shook her head
Miss Tabitha did not reply. She was weeping silently. The old ladies
seemed to have forgotten the presence of their niece, but Griselda could
not bear to see their distress. She finished her breakfast as quickly as
she could, and left the room.

On her way upstairs she met Dorcas
said the old servant
replied Griselda
continued Dorcas, who seemed inclined
to be more communicative than usual
asked the child.

Dorcas shook her head
she said
she added solemnly
Griselda's conscience gave her a sharp prick. Could it be _her_ doing
that trouble was coming upon the old house? What a punishment for a
moment's fit of ill-temper
she said
said the old servant as she went
on her way downstairs
That day was a very weary and sad one for Griselda. She was oppressed by
a feeling she did not understand. She knew she had done wrong, but she
had sorely repented it, and
she said to herself
Her aunts made no allusion to the subject in her presence, and almost
seemed to have forgotten that she had known of their distress. They were
more grave and silent than usual, but otherwise things went on in their
ordinary way. Griselda spent the morning
in the
ante-room, but was thankful to get away from the tick-tick of the clock
in the corner and out into the garden.

But there, alas! it was just as bad. The rooks seemed to know that
something was the matter; they set to work making such a chatter
immediately Griselda appeared that she felt inclined to run back into
the house again
she said to herself
She was glad when bed-time came. It was a sort of reproach to her to see
her aunts so pale and troubled; and though she tried to persuade herself
that she thought them very silly, she could not throw off the
uncomfortable feeling.

She was so tired when she went to bed -- tired in the disagreeable way
that comes from a listless, uneasy day -- that she fell asleep at once and
slept heavily. When she woke, which she did suddenly, and with a start,
it was still perfectly dark, like the first morning that she had wakened
in the old house. It seemed to her that she had not wakened of
herself -- something had roused her. Yes! there it was again, a very,
_very_ soft distant
_Was_ it distant? She could not tell.
Almost she could have fancied it was close to her
exclaimed
Griselda.

She darted out of bed, felt her way to the door, which was closed, and
opening it let in a rush of moonlight from the unshuttered passage
window. In another moment her little bare feet were pattering along the
passage at full speed, in the direction of the great saloon.

For Griselda's childhood among the troop of noisy brothers had taught
her one lesson -- she was afraid of nothing. Or rather perhaps I should
say she had never learnt that there was anything to be afraid of! And is
there
There was moonlight, though not so much, in the saloon and the
ante-room, too; for though the windows, like those in Griselda's
bed-room, had the shutters closed, there was a round part at the top,
high up, which the shutters did not reach to, and in crept, through
these clear uncovered panes, quite as many moonbeams, you may be sure,
as could find their way.

Griselda, eager though she was, could not help standing still a moment
to admire the effect
she said to herself
But at this moment the faint tick-tick of the cuckoo clock in the next
room, reaching her ear, reminded her of the object of this midnight
expedition of hers. She hurried into the ante-room.

It looked darker than the great saloon, for it had but one window. But
through the uncovered space at the top of this window there penetrated
some brilliant moonbeams, one of which lighted up brightly the face of
the clock with its queer over-hanging eaves
Griselda approached it and stood below, looking up
she said softly -- very softly.

But there was no reply
she repeated rather more loudly
Tick-tick" said the clock, but there was no other reply.

Griselda felt ready to cry
she said reproachfully
There was a little sound at last -- a faint _coming_ sound, and by the
moonlight Griselda saw the doors open, and out flew the cuckoo. He stood
still for a moment, looked round him as it were, then gently flapped his
wings, and uttered his usual note
Griselda stood in breathless expectation, but in her delight she could
not help very softly clapping her hands.

The cuckoo cleared his throat. You never heard such a funny little noise
as he made; and then, in a very clear, distinct, but yet "cuckoo-y"
voice, he spoke
he said
she replied
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
replied the cuckoo
Griselda stared
she asked
said the cuckoo
said Griselda humbly
she
continued
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
remarked the cuckoo drily
continued Griselda
said the cuckoo. He flapped his wings and
was silent for a minute or two
he observed at
last
said Griselda, not exactly knowing what else to say
continued the cuckoo
asked Griselda somewhat timidly
replied the cuckoo
returned Griselda
inquired the cuckoo
replied
Griselda
suggested the bird.

Griselda looked puzzled
she said
said the cuckoo
replied the cuckoo.

Griselda gave a little wriggle
she
said
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
was her little friend's reply. Griselda thought it was
meant for good night, but the fact of the matter was that at that exact
second of time it was two o'clock in the morning.

She made her way back to bed. She had been standing some time talking to
the cuckoo, but, though it was now well on in November, she did not feel
the least cold, nor sleepy! She felt as happy and light-hearted as
possible, and she wished it was morning, that she might get up. Yet the
moment she laid her little brown curly head on the pillow, she fell
asleep; and it seemed to her that just as she dropped off a soft
feathery wing brushed her cheek gently and a tiny "Cuckoo" sounded in
her ear.

When she woke it was bright morning, really bright morning, for the
wintry sun was already sending some clear yellow rays out into the pale
grey-blue sky
thought Griselda, when she had opened the shutters
and seen how light it was
But, after all, it was not so much later than usual; it was only a much
brighter morning than they had had for some time. Griselda did dress
herself very quickly, however. As she went downstairs two or three of
the clocks in the house, for there were several, were striking eight.
These clocks must have been a little before the right time, for it was
not till they had again relapsed into silence that there rang out from
the ante-room the clear sweet tones, eight times repeated, of
Miss Grizzel and Miss Tabitha were already at the breakfast-table, but
they received their little niece most graciously. Nothing was said about
the clock, however, till about half-way through the meal, when Griselda,
full of eagerness to know if her aunts were aware of the cuckoo's
return, could restrain herself no longer
she said
replied Miss Grizzel
inquired Griselda, slyly
replied Miss Grizzel,
mysteriously
repeated Miss Tabitha.

But though the two old ladies thus tried to improve the occasion by a
little lecturing, Griselda could see that at the bottom of their hearts
they were both so happy that, even if she had been very naughty indeed,
they could hardly have made up their minds to scold her.

She was not at all inclined to be naughty this day. She had something
to think about and look forward to, which made her quite a different
little girl, and made her take heart in doing her lessons as well as she
possibly could
she said to herself, as she was walking up and down
the terrace at the back of the house
screamed a rook just over her head, as if in answer to her
thought.

Griselda looked up at him
she said
said Dorcas's voice
repeated Griselda indignantly, as she turned to follow the old
servant
said Griselda,
impatiently
said
Dorcas
exclaimed Griselda, stopping short
said
Griselda
said Griselda, softly
But here Dorcas's reminiscences were abruptly brought to a close by Miss
Grizzel's appearance at the other end of the terrace
So Griselda was hurried off to her lessons, and Dorcas to her kitchen.
But Griselda did not much mind. She had plenty to think of and wonder
about, and she liked to do her lessons in the ante-room, with the
tick-tick of the clock in her ears, and the feeling that _perhaps_ the
cuckoo was watching her through some invisible peep-hole in his closed
doors
thought Griselda
So she did try very hard. And she didn't speak to the cuckoo when he
came out to say it was four o'clock. She was busy, and he was busy. She
felt it was better to wait till he gave her some sign of being ready to
talk to her again.

For fairies, you know, children, however charming, are sometimes
_rather_ queer to have to do with. They don't like to be interfered
with, or treated except with very great respect, and they have their own
ideas about what is proper and what isn't, I can assure you.

I suppose it was with working so hard at her lessons -- most people would
say it was with having been up the night before, running about the house
in the moonlight; but as she had never felt so "fresh" in her life as
when she got up that morning, it could hardly have been that -- that
Griselda felt so tired and sleepy that evening, she could hardly keep
her eyes open. She begged to go to bed quite half an hour earlier than
usual, which made Miss Tabitha afraid again that she was going to be
ill. But as there is nothing better for children than to go to bed
early, even if they _are_ going to be ill, Miss Grizzel told her to say
good-night, and to ask Dorcas to give her a wine-glassful of elderberry
wine, nice and hot, after she was in bed.

Griselda had no objection to the elderberry wine, though she felt she
was having it on false pretences. She certainly did not need it to send
her to sleep, for almost before her head touched the pillow she was as
sound as a top. She had slept a good long while, when again she wakened
suddenly -- just as she had done the night before, and again with the
feeling that something had wakened her. And the queer thing was that the
moment she was awake she felt so _very_ awake -- she had no inclination to
stretch and yawn and hope it wasn't quite time to get up, and think how
nice and warm bed was, and how cold it was outside! She sat straight up,
and peered out into the darkness, feeling quite ready for an adventure
she said softly.

There was no answer, but listening intently, the child fancied she heard
a faint rustling or fluttering in the corner of the room by the door.
She got up and, feeling her way, opened it, and the instant she had done
so she heard, a few steps only in front of her it seemed, the familiar
notes, very, _very_ soft and whispered
It went on and on, down the passage, Griselda trotting after. There was
no moon to-night, heavy clouds had quite hidden it, and outside the rain
was falling heavily. Griselda could hear it on the window-panes, through
the closed shutters and all. But dark as it was, she made her way along
without any difficulty, down the passage, across the great saloon, in
through the ante-room door, guided only by the little voice now and then
to be heard in front of her. She came to a standstill right before the
clock, and stood there for a minute or two patiently waiting.

She had not very long to wait. There came the usual murmuring sound,
then the doors above the clock face opened -- she heard them open, it was
far too dark to see -- and in his ordinary voice, clear and distinct (it
was just two o'clock, so the cuckoo was killing two birds with one
stone, telling the hour and greeting Griselda at once), the bird sang
out
said Griselda, when he had finished
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
The cuckoo cleared his throat
he inquired
replied Griselda
The cuckoo sighed
she said
corrected the cuckoo
said Griselda, rather tartly
repeated the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
Griselda thought her friend must be going out of his mind
she exclaimed
returned the cuckoo
said Griselda, feeling rather muddled
said the cuckoo hastily
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
_How_ she managed it she never knew; but, somehow or other, it _was_
managed. She seemed to slide up the chain just as easily as in a general
way she would have slidden down, only without any disagreeable
anticipation of a bump at the end of the journey. And when she got to
the top how wonderfully different it looked from anything she could have
expected! The doors stood open, and Griselda found them quite big
enough, or herself quite small enough -- which it was she couldn't tell,
and as it was all a matter of fancy she decided not to trouble to
inquire -- to pass through quite comfortably.

And inside there was the most charming little snuggery imaginable. It
was something like a saloon railway carriage -- it seemed to be all lined
and carpeted and everything, with rich mossy red velvet; there was a
little round table in the middle and two arm-chairs, on one of which sat
the cuckoo
thought Griselda to
herself -- while the other, as he pointed out to Griselda by a little nod,
was evidently intended for her
said she, sitting down on the chair as she spoke
inquired the cuckoo
replied Griselda, looking about her with great satisfaction
she
inquired
said the cuckoo
replied Griselda
She looked at her little bare feet as she spoke, and wondered why _they_
weren't cold, for it was very chilblainy weather.

The cuckoo stood up, and with one of his claws reached from a corner
where it was hanging a cloak which Griselda had not before noticed. For
it was hanging wrong side out, and the lining was red velvet, very like
what the sides of the little room were covered with, so it was no wonder
she had not noticed it.

Had it been hanging the _right_ side out she must have done so; this
side was so very wonderful!

It was all feathers -- feathers of every shade and colour, but
beautifully worked in, somehow, so as to lie quite smoothly and evenly,
one colour melting away into another like those in a prism, so that you
could hardly tell where one began and another ended
said Griselda, wrapping it round her and
feeling even more comfortable than before, as she watched the rays of
the little lamp in the roof -- I think I was forgetting to tell you that
the cuckoo's boudoir was lighted by a dear little lamp set into the red
velvet roof like a pearl in a ring -- playing softly on the brilliant
colours of the feather mantle
said the cuckoo
he continued, in the tone of one coming to business
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
triumphantly
said Griselda
and she nodded her head in the direction of the ante-room table
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, considering
said the cuckoo
repeated Griselda
The cuckoo looked at her gravely for a minute, then shook his head
he said solemnly
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
pursued Griselda
inquired he
exclaimed Griselda
Again the cuckoo shook his head
said he
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
asked Griselda
replied the cuckoo
cried Griselda
said the cuckoo
inquired Griselda, in a rather
disappointed tone
said the cuckoo
said the cuckoo
he exclaimed suddenly. He gave a spring forward and
disappeared. Then Griselda heard his voice outside the doors
It was three o'clock.

The doors opened again to let him through, and he re-settled himself on
his chair
he went on
said Griselda
replied the cuckoo
exclaimed Griselda, clapping her hands
said the cuckoo
he flapped his
own wings encouragingly
said Griselda bewilderedly
said the cuckoo
cried Griselda
exclaimed the cuckoo
replied the cuckoo
said Griselda
repeated the cuckoo
replied Griselda, feeling rather snubbed
said the cuckoo
MANDARINS NODDING
cried poor Griselda
said the cuckoo
Griselda flapped and wished. She felt a sort of rustle in the air, that
was all -- then she found herself standing with the cuckoo in front of the
Chinese cabinet, the door of which stood open, while the mandarins on
each side, nodding politely, seemed to invite them to enter. Griselda
hesitated
said the cuckoo, patronizingly
Griselda went on. To her surprise, inside the cabinet it was quite
light, though where the light came from that illuminated all the queer
corners and recesses and streamed out to the front, where stood the
mandarins, she could not discover.

The "palace" was not quite as interesting as she had expected. There
were lots of little rooms in it opening on to balconies commanding, no
doubt, a splendid view of the great saloon; there were ever so many
little staircases leading to more little rooms and balconies; but it all
seemed empty and deserted
said Griselda, stopping short at last
said the cuckoo
He hopped down a sort of little staircase near which they were standing,
and Griselda followed him willingly enough. At the foot they found
themselves in a vestibule, much handsomer than the entrance at the other
side, and the cuckoo, crossing it, lifted one of his claws and touched a
spring in the wall. Instantly a pair of large doors flew open in the
middle, revealing to Griselda the prettiest and most curious sight she
had ever seen.

A flight of wide shallow steps led down from this doorway into a long,
long avenue bordered by stiffly growing trees, from the branches of
which hung innumerable lamps of every colour, making a perfect network
of brilliance as far as the eye could reach
cried Griselda, clapping her hands
said the cuckoo
He flapped his wings, and instantly a palanquin appeared at the foot of
the steps. It was made of carved ivory, and borne by four
Chinese-looking figures with pigtails and bright-coloured jackets. A
feeling came over Griselda that she was dreaming, or else that she had
seen this palanquin before. She hesitated. Suddenly she gave a little
jump of satisfaction
she exclaimed
She looked at the four bearers. Instantly they all nodded
asked Griselda, turning to the cuckoo
he replied
she said
said the cuckoo
persisted Griselda, getting in, however,
as she spoke
began the cuckoo, but Griselda
interrupted him
she exclaimed
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, settling herself down among the cushions.

It was a change from the cuckoo's boudoir. There were no chairs or
seats, only a number of very, _very_ soft cushions covered with green
silk. There were green silk curtains all round, too, which you could
draw or not as you pleased, just by touching a spring. Griselda stroked
the silk gently. It was not "fruzzley" silk, if you know what that
means; it did not make you feel as if your nails wanted cutting, or as
if all the rough places on your skin were being rubbed up the wrong way;
its softness was like that of a rose or pansy petal
said Griselda
she continued
The cuckoo gave a sort of whistle
he exclaimed
he
continued, seeing that Griselda looked rather offended
said Griselda humbly
said the cuckoo.

Griselda sat silent for a minute or two, but very soon she recovered her
spirits
she asked again
said the cuckoo
replied Griselda
said Griselda.

In a minute or two the palanquin stopped. The cuckoo got out, and
Griselda followed him.

She found that they were at the entrance to a _very_ much grander palace
than the one in her aunt's saloon. The steps leading up to the door were
very wide and shallow, and covered with a gold embroidered carpet, which
_looked_ as if it would be prickly to her bare feet, but which, on the
contrary, when she trod upon it, felt softer than the softest moss. She
could see very little besides the carpet, for at each side of the steps
stood rows and rows of mandarins, all something like, but a great deal
grander than, the pair outside her aunt's cabinet; and as the cuckoo
hopped and Griselda walked up the staircase, they all, in turn, row by
row, began solemnly to nod. It gave them the look of a field of very
high grass, through which, any one passing, leaves for the moment a
trail, till all the heads bob up again into their places
whispered Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo, for by this time they had arrived at the top of
the staircase
Two mandariny-looking young ladies, with porcelain faces and
three-cornered head-dresses, stepped forward and led Griselda into a
small ante-room, where lay waiting for her the most magnificent dress
you ever saw. But how _do_ you think they dressed her? It was all by
nodding. They nodded to the blue and silver embroidered jacket, and in a
moment it had fitted itself on to her. They nodded to the splendid
scarlet satin skirt, made very short in front and very long behind, and
before Griselda knew where she was, it was adjusted quite correctly.
They nodded to the head-dress, and the sashes, and the necklaces and
bracelets, and forthwith they all arranged themselves. Last of all, they
nodded to the dearest, sweetest little pair of high-heeled shoes
imaginable -- all silver, and blue, and gold, and scarlet, and everything
mixed up together, _only_ they were rather a stumpy shape about the
toes, and Griselda's bare feet were encased in them, and, to her
surprise, quite comfortably so
she said aloud
But her attendants only nodded; and turning round, she saw the cuckoo
waiting for her. He did not speak either, rather to her annoyance, but
gravely led the way through one grand room after another to the grandest
of all, where the entertainment was evidently just about to begin. And
everywhere there were mandarins, rows and rows, who all set to work
nodding as fast as Griselda appeared. She began to be rather tired of
royal salutes, and was glad when, at last, in profound silence, the
procession, consisting of the cuckoo and herself, and about half a dozen
came to a halt before a kind of dais, or raised seat, at
the end of the hall.

Upon this dais stood a chair -- a throne of some kind, Griselda supposed
it to be -- and upon this was seated the grandest and gravest personage
she had yet seen
she whispered. But the cuckoo did not
reply; and before she had time to repeat the question, the very grand
and grave person got down from his seat, and coming towards her, offered
her his hand, at the same time nodding -- first once, then two or three
times together, then once again. Griselda seemed to know what he meant.
He was asking her to dance
she said
The king, if that was his title, took not the slightest notice of her
reply, but nodded again -- once, then two or three times together, then
once alone, just as before. Griselda did not know what to do, when
suddenly she felt something poking her head. It was the cuckoo -- he had
lifted his claw, and was tapping her head to make her nod. So she
nodded -- once, twice together, then once -- that appeared to be enough. The
king nodded once again; an invisible band suddenly struck up the
loveliest music, and off they set to the places of honour reserved for
them in the centre of the room, where all the mandarins were assembling.

What a dance that was! It began like a minuet and ended something like
the hay-makers. Griselda had not the least idea what the figures or
steps were, but it did not matter. If she did not know, her shoes or
something about her did; for she got on famously. The music was
lovely
thought
Griselda
The king seemed to enjoy
it as much as she did, though he never smiled or laughed; any one could
have seen he liked it by the way he whirled and twirled himself about.
And between the figures, when they stopped to rest for a little,
Griselda got on very well too. There was no conversation, or rather, if
there was, it was all nodding.

So Griselda nodded too, and though she did not know what her nods meant,
the king seemed to understand and be quite pleased; and when they had
nodded enough, the music struck up again, and off they set, harder than
before.

And every now and then tiny little mandariny boys appeared with trays
filled with the most delicious fruits and sweetmeats. Griselda was not a
greedy child, but for once in her life she really _did_ feel rather so.
I cannot possibly describe these delicious things; just think of
whatever in all your life was the most "lovely" thing you ever eat, and
you may be sure they tasted like that. Only the cuckoo would not eat
any, which rather distressed Griselda. He walked about among the
dancers, apparently quite at home; and the mandarins did not seem at all
surprised to see him, though he did look rather odd, being nearly, if
not quite, as big as any of them. Griselda hoped he was enjoying
himself, considering that she had to thank him for all the fun _she_ was
having, but she felt a little conscience-stricken when she saw that he
wouldn't eat anything
she whispered; she dared not talk out loud -- it would have
seemed so remarkable, you see
she said, very, very softly
said the cuckoo; and you can't think how pleased
Griselda was at having succeeded in making him speak
said Griselda
said the cuckoo; and looking up, Griselda saw a number of
mandarins, in a sort of procession, coming their way.

When they got up to the cuckoo they set to work nodding, two or three at
a time, more energetically than usual. When they stopped, the cuckoo
nodded in return, and then hopped off towards the middle of the room
he whispered as he passed
Griselda
When he got to the middle of the room the cuckoo cleared his throat,
flapped his wings, and began to sing. Griselda was quite astonished. She
had had no idea that her friend was so accomplished. It wasn't
"cuckooing" at all; it was real singing, like that of the nightingale or
the thrush, or like something prettier than either. It made Griselda
think of woods in summer, and of tinkling brooks flowing through them,
with the pretty brown pebbles sparkling up through the water; and then
it made her think of something sad -- she didn't know what; perhaps it
was of the babes in the wood and the robins covering them up with
leaves -- and then again, in a moment, it sounded as if all the merry
elves and sprites that ever were heard of had escaped from fairyland,
and were rolling over and over with peals of rollicking laughter. And at
last, all of a sudden, the song came to an end
rang out three times, clear and shrill. The
cuckoo flapped his wings, made a bow to the mandarins, and retired to
his old corner.

There was no buzz of talk, as is usual after a performance has come to a
close, but there was a great buzz of nodding, and Griselda, wishing to
give the cuckoo as much praise as she could, nodded as hard as any of
them. The cuckoo really looked quite shy at receiving so much applause.
But in a minute or two the music struck up and the dancing began
again -- one, two, three: it seemed a sort of mazurka this time, which
suited the mandarins very well, as it gave them a chance of nodding to
mark the time.

Griselda had once learnt the mazurka, so she got on even better than
before -- only she would have liked it more if her shoes had had sharper
toes; they looked so stumpy when she tried to point them. All the same,
it was very good fun, and she was not too well pleased when she suddenly
felt the little sharp tap of the cuckoo on her head, and heard him
whisper
she asked
said the cuckoo; and after that, Griselda dared not
say another word. It was very nearly as bad as being told she had a
great deal to learn
she inquired; but
before the cuckoo had time to answer, she gave a little squeal
she cried
said the cuckoo
she went on
said the cuckoo.

Griselda stooped to take off her shoe
she began to say; but she never finished the sentence, for just as she
had got her shoe off she felt the cuckoo throw something round her. It
was the feather mantle.

And Griselda knew nothing more till she opened her eyes the next
morning, and saw the first early rays of sunshine peeping in through the
chinks of the closed shutters of her little bedroom.

She rubbed her eyes, and sat up in bed. Could it have been a dream
she thought
She began to feel confused and doubtful, when suddenly she felt
something hurting her arm, like a little lump in the bed. She felt with
her hand to see if she could smooth it away, and drew out -- one of the
shoes belonging to her court dress! The very one she had held in her
hand at the moment the cuckoo spirited her home again to bed
she exclaimed
She jumped out of bed and unfastened one of the window-shutters, then
jumped in again to admire the little shoe in comfort. It was even
prettier than she had thought it at the ball. She held it up and looked
at it. It was about the size of the first joint of her little finger
she
said to the shoe
She was still holding up the shoe and admiring it when Dorcas came with
the hot water
she said
exclaimed the old servant
said Griselda
Dorcas looked at her curiously, but said no more, only as she was going
out of the room Griselda heard her saying something about
thought Griselda
It was not for some days that Griselda had a chance of asking the cuckoo
anything. She saw and heard nothing of him -- nothing, that is to say, but
his regular appearance to tell the hours as usual
thought Griselda
A few days after this poor Griselda caught cold. It was not a very bad
cold, I must confess, but her aunts made rather a fuss about it. They
wanted her to stay in bed, but to this Griselda so much objected that
they did not insist upon it
she said piteously
Aunt Grizzel smiled at this, and Griselda got her way. But even in the
ante-room it was rather dull. Miss Grizzel and Miss Tabitha were obliged
to go out, to drive all the way to Merrybrow Hall, as Lady Lavander sent
a messenger to say that she had an attack of influenza, and wished to
see her friends at once.

Miss Tabitha began to cry -- she was so tender-hearted
said Miss Grizzel, by way of consolation
said Miss Tabitha, shaking her
head and wiping her eyes.

So off they set; and Griselda, in her arm-chair by the ante-room fire,
with some queer little old-fashioned books of her aunts', which she had
already read more than a dozen times, beside her by way of amusement,
felt that there was one comfort in her troubles -- she had escaped the
long weary drive to her godmother's.

But it was very dull. It got duller and duller. Griselda curled herself
up in her chair, and wished she could go to sleep, though feeling quite
sure she couldn't, for she had stayed in bed much later than usual this
morning, and had been obliged to spend the time in sleeping, for want of
anything better to do.

She looked up at the clock
she said to herself
It was not near
But after waiting a minute or two, it
seemed to Griselda that she heard the soft sound of "coming" that always
preceded the cuckoo's appearance. She was right. In another moment she
heard his usual greeting
she exclaimed
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, with a little shiver
said the cuckoo
cried Griselda
said the cuckoo
Griselda shut her eyes, and the cuckoo began his song. It was something
like what he had sung at the mandarins' palace, only even more
beautiful. It was so soft and dreamy, Griselda felt as if she could have
sat there for ever, listening to it.

The first notes were low and murmuring. Again they made Griselda think
of little rippling brooks in summer, and now and then there came a sort
of hum as of insects buzzing in the warm sunshine near. This humming
gradually increased, till at last Griselda was conscious of nothing
more -- _everything_ seemed to be humming, herself too, till at last she
fell asleep.

When she opened her eyes, the ante-room and everything in it, except the
arm-chair on which she was still curled up, had disappeared -- melted away
into a misty cloud all round her, which in turn gradually faded, till
before her she saw a scene quite new and strange. It was the first of
the cuckoo's
An old, quaint room, with a high, carved mantelpiece, and a bright fire
sparkling in the grate. It was not a pretty room -- it had more the look
of a workshop of some kind; but it was curious and interesting. All
round, the walls were hung with clocks and strange mechanical toys.
There was a fiddler slowly fiddling, a gentleman and lady gravely
dancing a minuet, a little man drawing up water in a bucket out of a
glass vase in which gold fish were swimming about -- all sorts of queer
figures; and the clocks were even queerer. There was one intended to
represent the sun, moon, and planets, with one face for the sun and
another for the moon, and gold and silver stars slowly circling round
them; there was another clock with a tiny trumpeter perched on a ledge
above the face, who blew a horn for the hours. I cannot tell you half
the strange and wonderful things there were.

Griselda was so interested in looking at all these queer machines, that
she did not for some time observe the occupant of the room. And no
wonder; he was sitting in front of a little table, so perfectly still,
much more still than the un-living figures around him. He was examining,
with a magnifying glass, some small object he held in his hand, so
closely and intently that Griselda, forgetting she was only looking at a
almost held her breath for fear she should disturb him. He
was a very old man, his coat was worn and threadbare in several places,
looking as if he spent a great part of his life in one position. Yet he
did not look _poor_, and his face, when at last he lifted it, was mild
and intelligent and very earnest.

While Griselda was watching him closely there came a soft tap at the
door, and a little girl danced into the room. The dearest little girl
you ever saw, and _so_ funnily dressed! Her thick brown hair, rather
lighter than Griselda's, was tied in two long plaits down her back. She
had a short red skirt with silver braid round the bottom, and a white
chemisette with beautiful lace at the throat and wrists, and over that
again a black velvet bodice, also trimmed with silver. And she had a
great many trinkets, necklaces, and bracelets, and ear-rings, and a sort
of little silver coronet; no, it was not like a coronet, it was a band
with a square piece of silver fastened so as to stand up at each side of
her head something like a horse's blinkers, only they were not placed
over her eyes.

She made quite a jingle as she came into the room, and the old man
looked up with a smile of pleasure
he said; and
though the language in which he spoke was quite strange to Griselda, she
understood his meaning perfectly well
said the child
The old man shook his head
he replied
said the
child, her eyes filling with tears
said the old man
His dim old eyes brightened, and for a moment he sat erect and strong
said Sybilla, in a low voice
Sybilla sprang into his arms
she said
said the old man, as he placed carefully on the
table the delicate piece of mechanism he held in his hand, and tenderly
embraced the child
As he said these words the mist slowly gathered, again before Griselda's
eyes -- the first of the cuckoo's pictures faded from her sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she looked again the scene was changed, but this time it was not a
strange one, though Griselda had gazed at it for some moments before
she recognized it. It was the great saloon, but it looked very
different from what she had ever seen it. Forty years or so make a
difference in rooms as well as in people!

The faded yellow damask hangings were rich and brilliant. There were
bouquets of lovely flowers arranged about the tables; wax lights were
sending out their brightness in every direction, and the room was filled
with ladies and gentlemen in gay attire.

Among them, after a time, Griselda remarked two ladies, no longer very
young, but still handsome and stately, and something whispered to her
that they were her two aunts, Miss Grizzel and Miss Tabitha
she said softly to herself
But she did not long look at them; her attention was attracted by a much
younger lady -- a mere girl she seemed, but oh, so sweet and pretty! She
was dancing with a gentleman whose eyes looked as if they saw no one
else, and she herself seemed brimming over with youth and happiness. Her
very steps had joy in them
whispered a voice, which she knew was the cuckoo's
Griselda turned round sharply to look for the speaker, but he was not to
be seen. And when she turned again, the picture of the great saloon had
faded away.

       *       *       *       *       *

One more picture.

Griselda looked again. She saw before her a country road in full summer
time; the sun was shining, the birds were singing, the trees covered
with their bright green leaves -- everything appeared happy and joyful.
But at last in the distance she saw, slowly approaching, a group of a
few people, all walking together, carrying in their centre something
long and narrow, which, though the black cloth covering it was almost
hidden by the white flowers with which it was thickly strewn, Griselda
knew to be a coffin.

It was a funeral procession, and in the place of chief mourner, with
pale, set face, walked the same young man whom Griselda had last seen
dancing with the girl Sybilla in the great saloon.

The sad group passed slowly out of sight; but as it disappeared there
fell upon the ear the sounds of sweet music, lovelier far than she had
heard before -- lovelier than the magic cuckoo's most lovely songs -- and
somehow, in the music, it seemed to the child's fancy there were mingled
the soft strains of a woman's voice
thought Griselda dreamily, and with that she
fell asleep again.

       *       *       *       *       *

When she woke she was in the arm-chair by the ante-room fire,
everything around her looking just as usual, the cuckoo clock ticking
away calmly and regularly. Had it been a dream only? Griselda could not
make up her mind
she said to herself
she went on, looking up at the clock
The cuckoo took no notice of what she said, but Griselda did not mind.
She was getting used to his
she thought
My aunts must have come back!&rsqb;

She sat still contentedly enough, thinking over what she had seen,
and trying to make more "pictures" for herself in the fire. Then there
came faintly to her ears the sound of carriage wheels, opening and
shutting of doors, a little bustle of arrival
thought Griselda; and so it was. In a
few minutes Miss Grizzel, closely followed by Miss Tabitha, appeared at
the ante-room door
said Miss Grizzel anxiously
replied Griselda
said Miss Grizzel
she continued, turning to Miss Tabitha
agreed Miss Tabitha
said Griselda, after a few moments' silence
replied Miss Grizzel with a change in her
voice
pursued Griselda
said Miss Grizzel
said Griselda
said Miss Grizzel, looking rather bewildered
continued Griselda, unconsciously using the very words
she had heard in her vision
Miss Grizzel held her very breath in astonishment; and no doubt if Miss
Tabitha had known she was doing so, she would have held hers too. But
Griselda lay still, gazing at the fire, quite unconscious of her aunt's
surprise
said
Miss Grizzel at last
said Griselda dreamily
Miss Grizzel glanced at her sister
she said in a low voice
And Miss Tabitha, who really was not very deaf when she set herself to
hear, nodded in awestruck silence
continued Miss Grizzel in the same tone
for Miss Grizzel was a
well-read old lady, you see
echoed Miss Tabitha
added Miss Grizzel, bending over Griselda, while two or three tears
slowly trickled down her aged cheeks
Griselda's cold _was_ much better by
In fact, I
might almost say it was quite well.

But Griselda herself did not feel quite well, and saying this reminds me
that it is hardly sense to speak of a _cold_ being better or well -- for a
cold's being "well" means that it is not there at all, out of existence,
in short, and if a thing is out of existence how can we say anything
about it? Children, I feel quite in a hobble -- I cannot get my mind
straight about it -- please think it over and give me your opinion. In
the meantime, I will go on about Griselda.

She felt just a little ill -- a sort of feeling that sometimes is rather
nice, sometimes "very extremely" much the reverse! She felt in the
humour for being petted, and having beef-tea, and jelly, and sponge cake
with her tea, and for a day or two this was all very well. She _was_
petted, and she had lots of beef-tea, and jelly, and grapes, and sponge
cakes, and everything nice, for her aunts, as you must have seen by this
time, were really very, very kind to her in every way in which they
understood how to be so.

But after a few days of the continued petting, and the beef-tea and the
jelly and all the rest of it, it occurred to Miss Grizzel, who had a
good large bump of
that it might be possible to overdo
this sort of thing
she said to her sister, when they were sitting together in
the evening after Griselda had gone to bed
repeated Miss Tabitha
said Miss Grizzel, with a sigh of
relief (as if poor Miss Tabitha during all the last half-century had
ever ventured to do anything else), getting up to fetch her writing
materials as she spoke
said Miss Tabitha
So the note was written and despatched, and the next morning when, about
twelve o'clock, Griselda made her appearance in the little drawing-room
where her aunts usually sat, looking, it must be confessed, very plump
and rosy for an invalid, Miss Grizzel broached the subject
she said quietly
Griselda had been settling herself comfortably on a corner of the sofa.
She had got a nice book to read, which her father, hearing of her
illness, had sent her by post, and she was looking forward to the
tempting plateful of jelly which Dorcas had brought her for luncheon
every day since she had been ill. Altogether, she was feeling very
"lazy-easy" and contented. Her aunt's announcement felt like a sudden
downpour of cold water, or rush of east wind. She sat straight up in her
sofa, and exclaimed in a tone of great annoyance
said Miss Grizzel, placidly
said Miss Grizzel, holding up her hand in a way that reminded
Griselda of the cuckoo's favourite
Just then, too, in
the distance the ante-room clock struck twelve
on it went. Griselda could have stamped with irritation, but
_somehow_, in spite of herself, she felt compelled to say nothing. She
muttered some not very pretty words, coiled herself round on the sofa,
opened her book, and began to read.

But it was not as interesting as she had expected. She had not read many
pages before she began to yawn, and she was delighted to be interrupted
by Dorcas and the jelly.

But the jelly was not as nice as she had expected, either. She tasted
it, and thought it was too sweet; and when she tasted it again, it
seemed too strong of cinnamon; and the third taste seemed too strong of
everything. She laid down her spoon, and looked about her
discontentedly
said Miss Grizzel
said Griselda shortly. She ate a few spoonfuls, and then
took up her book again. Miss Grizzel said nothing more, but to herself
she thought that Mr. Kneebreeches had not been recalled any too soon.

All day long it was much the same. Nothing seemed to come right to
Griselda. It was a dull, cold day, what is called
not a
bright, clear, _pretty_, cold day, but the sort of frost that really
makes the world seem dead -- makes it almost impossible to believe that
there will ever be warmth and sound and "growing-ness" again.

Late in the afternoon Griselda crept up to the ante-room, and sat down
by the window. Outside it was nearly dark, and inside it was not much
more cheerful -- for the fire was nearly out, and no lamps were lighted;
only the cuckoo clock went on tick-ticking briskly as usual
said Griselda, pressing her cold little face against
the colder window-pane
rang out suddenly above her head.

It was only four o'clock striking, and as soon as he had told it the
cuckoo was back behind his doors again in an instant, just as usual.
There was nothing for Griselda to feel offended at, but somehow she got
quite angry
she exclaimed defiantly
In her secret heart I fancy she was half in hopes that the cuckoo would
come out again, and talk things over with her. Even if he were to scold
her, she felt that it would be better than sitting there alone with
nobody to speak to, which was very dull work indeed. At the bottom of
her conscience there lurked the knowledge that what she _should_ be
doing was to be looking over her last lessons with Mr. Kneebreeches, and
refreshing her memory for the next day; but, alas! knowing one's duty is
by no means the same thing as doing it, and Griselda sat on by the
window doing nothing but grumble and work herself up into a belief that
she was one of the most-to-be-pitied little girls in all the world. So
that by the time Dorcas came to call her to tea, I doubt if she had a
single pleasant thought or feeling left in her heart.

Things grew no better after tea, and before long Griselda asked if she
might go to bed. She was
she said; and she certainly looked
so, for ill-humour and idleness are excellent
and will soon
take the roses out of a child's cheeks, and the brightness out of her
eyes. She held up her face to be kissed by her aunts in a meekly
reproachful way, which made the old ladies feel quite uncomfortable
remarked Miss Grizzel, uneasily,
when Griselda had left the room. But Miss Tabitha was busy counting her
stitches, and did not give full attention to Miss Grizzel's observation,
so she just repeated placidly
said Miss Tabitha, with again a little sigh of
relief
Upstairs Griselda was hurry-scurrying into bed. There was a lovely fire
in her room -- fancy that! Was she not a poor neglected little creature?
But even this did not please her. She was too cross to be pleased with
anything; too cross to wash her face and hands, or let Dorcas brush her
hair out nicely as usual; too cross, alas, to say her prayers! She just
huddled into bed, huddling up her mind in an untidy hurry and confusion,
just as she left her clothes in an untidy heap on the floor. She would
not look into herself, was the truth of it; she shrank from doing so
because she _knew_ things had been going on in that silly little heart
of hers in a most unsatisfactory way all day, and she wanted to go to
sleep and forget all about it.

She did go to sleep, very quickly too. No doubt she really was tired;
tired with crossness and doing nothing, and she slept very soundly. When
she woke up she felt so refreshed and rested that she fancied it must be
morning. It was dark, of course, but that was to be expected in
mid-winter, especially as the shutters were closed
thought Griselda
She was up in a minute, feeling her way across the room to the window,
and without much difficulty she found the hook of the shutters,
unfastened it, and threw one side open. Ah no, there was no sign of
morning to be seen. There was moonlight, but nothing else, and not so
very much of that, for the clouds were hurrying across the "orbed
maiden's" face at such a rate, one after the other, that the light was
more like a number of pale flashes than the steady, cold shining of most
frosty moonlight nights. There was going to be a change of weather, and
the cloud armies were collecting together from all quarters; that was
the real explanation of the hurrying and skurrying Griselda saw
overhead, but this, of course, she did not understand. She only saw that
it looked wild and stormy, and she shivered a little, partly with cold,
partly with a half-frightened feeling that she could not have explained
she said to herself
She was just drawing-to the shutter again, when something caught her
eye, and she stopped short in surprise. A little bird was outside on the
windowsill -- a tiny bird crouching in close to the cold glass.
Griselda's kind heart was touched in an instant. Cold as she was, she
pushed back the shutter again, and drawing a chair forward to the
window, managed to unfasten it -- it was not a very heavy one -- and to open
it wide enough to slip her hand gently along to the bird. It did not
start or move
thought Griselda anxiously.

But no, it was not dead. It let her put her hand round it and draw it
in, and to her delight she felt that it was soft and warm, and it even
gave a gentle peck on her thumb
she said kindly. But, to her
amazement, no sooner was the bird safely inside the room, than it
managed cleverly to escape from her hand. It fluttered quietly up on to
her shoulder, and sang out in a soft but cheery tone
Griselda stept back from the window
she said rather surlily, her tone seeming to infer
that she had taken a great deal of trouble for nothing
replied Griselda, feeling a little ashamed of
her want of civility
She
hesitated
said the cuckoo.

Somehow, when the cuckoo said
like that, Griselda was obliged to
tell just what she was thinking
she said
There was a little indignation in her voice, and she gave her head a
toss, which nearly upset the cuckoo
exclaimed the cuckoo
Griselda felt her face grow red. What did he mean? Did he know how
yesterday had been spent? She said nothing, but she drooped her head,
and one or two tears came slowly creeping up to her eyes
said the cuckoo, suddenly changing his tone
said Griselda humbly
said the cuckoo
she replied
said the
cuckoo
Griselda almost screamed
she exclaimed
said the cuckoo
He flapped his wings, cried out "Cuckoo" once only, flew across the
room, and almost before Griselda understood what he was doing, had
disappeared.

She hurried after him, stumbling against the furniture in her haste, and
by the uncertain light. The door was not open, but the cuckoo had got
through it
thought Griselda
for a faint "Cuckoo" was to be heard on
its other side. In a moment Griselda had opened it, and was speeding
down the long passage in the dark, guided only by the voice from time to
time heard before her
She forgot all about the cold, or rather, she did not feel it, though
the floor was of uncarpeted old oak, whose hard, polished surface would
have usually felt like ice to a child's soft, bare feet. It was a very
long passage, and to-night, somehow, it seemed longer than ever. In
fact, Griselda could have fancied she had been running along it for half
a mile or more, when at last she was brought to a standstill by finding
she could go no further. Where was she? She could not imagine! It must
be a part of the house she had never explored in the daytime, she
decided. In front of her was a little stair running downwards, and
ending in a doorway. All this Griselda could see by a bright light that
streamed in by the keyhole and through the chinks round the door -- a
light so brilliant that the little girl blinked her eyes, and for a
moment felt quite dazzled and confused
she said to herself
came the answer, soft but clear, from the other side
thought Griselda; and for the first time since she had run out of her
room a shiver of cold made her teeth chatter and her skin feel creepy
sounded again, nearer this time, it seemed to
Griselda
she said resolutely
She ran down the little stair, she seized the handle of the door. It
turned easily; the door opened -- opened, and closed again noiselessly
behind her, and what do you think she saw
said the cuckoo's voice beside
her
Griselda did as she was told. She felt the tip of the cuckoo's softest
feather pass gently two or three times over her eyelids, and a delicious
scent seemed immediately to float before her
she remarked
she
exclaimed, dancing about with her hands clasped in entreaty, but her
eyes still firmly closed
said the cuckoo
Griselda opened her eyes
Griselda opened her eyes.

What did she see?

The loveliest, loveliest garden that ever or never a little girl's eyes
saw. As for describing it, I cannot. I must leave a good deal to your
fancy. It was just a _delicious_ garden. There was a charming mixture of
all that is needed to make a garden perfect -- grass, velvety lawn rather;
water, for a little brook ran tinkling in and out, playing bo-peep among
the bushes; trees, of course, and flowers, of course, flowers of every
shade and shape. But all these beautiful things Griselda did not at
first give as much attention to as they deserved; her eyes were so
occupied with a quite unusual sight that met them.

This was butterflies! Not that butterflies are so very uncommon; but
butterflies, as Griselda saw them, I am quite sure, children, none of
you ever saw, or are likely to see. There were such enormous numbers of
them, and the variety of their colours and sizes was so great. They were
fluttering about everywhere; the garden seemed actually alive with them.

Griselda stood for a moment in silent delight, feasting her eyes on the
lovely things before her, enjoying the delicious sunshine which kissed
her poor little bare feet, and seemed to wrap her all up in its warm
embrace. Then she turned to her little friend
she said
The cuckoo smiled, I was going to say, but that would be a figure of
speech only, would it not? He shook his head gently
he said kindly
repeated Griselda, with a little disappointment in
her tone
said the cuckoo
Griselda did not particularly like these allusions to
She
thought it would be as well to change the subject
she said
She stopped at last, quite out of breath
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
Griselda watched
she said, at last
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo.

He flew quietly along in front of her, leading the way through the
prettiest paths in all the pretty garden. The paths were arranged in
different colours, as it were; that is to say, the flowers growing along
their sides were not all
but one shade after another in
regular order -- from the palest blush pink to the very deepest damask
crimson; then, again, from the soft greenish blue of the small grass
forget-me-not to the rich warm tinge of the brilliant cornflower.
_Every_ tint was there; shades, to which, though not exactly strange to
her, Griselda could yet have given no name, for the daisy dew, you see,
had sharpened her eyes to observe delicate variations of colour, as she
had never done before
she said to the cuckoo
replied the cuckoo
asked Griselda
answered the cuckoo
Griselda thought it as well to take his advice, though not particularly
relishing the manner in which it was given. She did use her eyes, and as
she and the cuckoo made their way along the flower alleys, she saw that
the butterflies were never idle. They came regularly, in little parties
of twos and threes, and nibbled away, as she called it, at flowers of
the same colour but different shades, till they had got what they
wanted. Then off flew butterfly No. 1 with perhaps the palest tint of
maize, or yellow, or lavender, whichever he was in quest of, followed
by No. 2 with the next deeper shade of the same, and No. 3 bringing up
the rear.

Griselda gave a little sigh
said the cuckoo
she replied, in a melancholy tone
observed the cuckoo, drily.

After a while they came to what seemed to be a sort of centre to the
garden. It was a huge glass house, with numberless doors, in and out of
which butterflies were incessantly flying -- reminding Griselda again of
bees and a beehive. But she made no remark till the cuckoo spoke again
he said.

Griselda had to stoop a good deal, but she did manage to get in without
knocking her head or doing any damage. Inside was just a mass of
butterflies. A confused mass it seemed at first, but after a while she
saw that it was the very reverse of confused. The butterflies were all
settled in rows on long, narrow, white tables, and before each was a
tiny object about the size of a flattened-out pin's head, which he was
most carefully painting with one of his tentacles, which, from time to
time, he moistened by rubbing it on the head of a butterfly waiting
patiently behind him. Behind this butterfly again stood another, who
after a while took his place, while the first attendant flew away
remarked the cuckoo, who seemed to read
Griselda's thoughts
she inquired eagerly
replied the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
he went on, with a slight
contemptuous shrug of his cuckoo shoulders
asked
Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
exclaimed Griselda. But before the cuckoo had time to
say more a sudden tumult filled the air. It was butterfly dinner-time
said the cuckoo
replied Griselda
he remarked
inquired Griselda curiously
the cuckoo was beginning; but he was
interrupted. Two handsome butterflies flew into the great glass hall,
and making straight for the cuckoo, alighted on his shoulders. They
fluttered about him for a minute or two, evidently rather excited about
something, then flew away again, as suddenly as they had appeared
said the cuckoo, turning to Griselda
cried Griselda
she went on, with a melancholy change of tone
said the cuckoo
SHE LOOKED LIKE A FAIRY QUEEN.&rsqb;

He flew off, and was back almost immediately, followed by a whole flock
of butterflies. They were of a smaller kind than Griselda had hitherto
seen, and they were of two colours only; half were blue, half yellow.
They flew up to Griselda, who felt for a moment as if she were really
going to be suffocated by them, but only for a moment. There seemed a
great buzz and flutter about her, and then the butterflies set to work
to _dress_ her. And how do you think they dressed her? With
_themselves_! They arranged themselves all over her in the cleverest
way. One set of blue ones clustered round the hem of her little white
night-gown, making a thick
as it were; and then there came
two or three thinner rows of yellow, and then blue again. Round her
waist they made the loveliest belt of mingled blue and yellow, and all
over the upper part of her night-gown, in and out among the pretty white
frills which Dorcas herself
so nicely, they made themselves
into fantastic trimmings of every shape and kind; bows, rosettes -- I
cannot tell you what they did not imitate.

Perhaps the prettiest ornament of all was the coronet or wreath they
made of themselves for her head, dotting over her curly brown hair too
with butterfly spangles, which quivered like dew-drops as she moved
about. No one would have known Griselda; she looked like a fairy queen,
or princess, at least, for even her little white feet had what _looked_
like butterfly shoes upon them, though these, you will understand, were
only a sort of make-believe, as, of course, the shoes were soleless
said the cuckoo, when at last all was quiet again, and every blue
and every yellow butterfly seemed settled in his place
He led the way to a marble basin, into which fell the waters of one of
the tinkling brooks that were to be found everywhere about the garden,
and bade Griselda look into the water mirror. It danced about rather;
but still she was quite able to see herself. She peered in with great
satisfaction, turning herself round so as to see first over one
shoulder, then over the other
she said at last
said the cuckoo
Griselda said no more, but followed the cuckoo, walking rather
notwithstanding his assurances that the butterflies could
take care of themselves. At last the cuckoo stopped, in front of a sort
of banked-up terrace, in the centre of which grew a strange-looking
plant with large, smooth, spreading-out leaves, and on the two topmost
leaves, their splendid wings glittering in the sunshine, sat two
magnificent butterflies. They were many times larger than any Griselda
had yet seen; in fact, the cuckoo himself looked rather small beside
them, and they were _so_ beautiful that Griselda felt quite over-awed.
You could not have said what colour they were, for at the faintest
movement they seemed to change into new colours, each more exquisite
than the last. Perhaps I could best give you an idea of them by saying
that they were like living rainbows
asked Griselda in a whisper
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
exclaimed the cuckoo
said Griselda, under her breath
Just then the butterfly king and queen stretched out their magnificent
wings, and rose upwards, soaring proudly into the air
said Griselda in a disappointed tone
said the cuckoo
Griselda held out her hands, and stood gazing up into the sky. In a
minute or two the royal butterflies appeared again, slowly, majestically
circling downwards, till at length they alighted on Griselda's little
hands, the king on the right, the queen on the left, almost covering her
fingers with their great dazzling wings
said the cuckoo, hopping back a few steps and
looking up at Griselda approvingly
The king and queen appeared to understand. They floated away from
Griselda's hands and settled themselves, this time, at one end of a
beautiful little grass plot or lawn, just below the terrace where grew
the large-leaved plant. This was evidently their dining-room, for no
sooner were they in their place than butterflies of every kind and
colour came pouring in, in masses, from all directions. Butterflies
small and butterflies large; butterflies light and butterflies dark;
butterflies blue, pink, crimson, green, gold-colour -- _every_ colour, and
far, far more colours than you could possibly imagine.

They all settled down, round the sides of the grassy dining-table, and
in another minute a number of small white butterflies appeared, carrying
among them flower petals carefully rolled up, each containing a drop of
liquid. One of these was presented to the king, and then one to the
queen, who each sniffed at their petal for an instant, and then passed
it on to the butterfly next them, whereupon fresh petals were handed to
them, which they again passed on
said Griselda
he replied
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
But Griselda grew very tired of the scent feast long before all the
petals had been passed round. The perfumes were very nice, certainly,
but there were such quantities of them -- double quantities in honour of
the guest, of course! Griselda screwed up her handkerchief into a tight
little ball, so that the one drop of scent should not escape from it,
and then she kept sniffing at it impatiently, till at last the cuckoo
asked her what was the matter
she said
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
he replied.

Flocks and flocks of butterflies were rising a short way into the air,
and there arranging themselves in bands according to their colours
said the cuckoo to Griselda
Griselda climbed up the bank, and as from there she could look down on
the butterfly show, she saw it beautifully. The long strings of
butterflies twisted in and out of each other in the most wonderful way,
like ribbons of every hue plaiting themselves and then in an instant
unplaiting themselves again. Then the king and queen placed themselves
in the centre, and round and round in moving circles twisted and
untwisted the brilliant bands of butterflies
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
Griselda obeyed. "Clap" number one -- all the butterflies rose up into the
air in a cloud; clap number two -- they all fluttered and twirled and
buzzed about, as if in the greatest excitement; clap number three -- they
all turned in Griselda's direction with a rush
cried the cuckoo.

Griselda felt her breath going. Up above her was the vast feathery cloud
of butterflies, fluttering, _rushing_ down upon her
she screamed
called out the
cuckoo.

And just as Griselda clapped her hands, holding her precious
handkerchief between her teeth, she heard him give his usual cry
_Clap_ -- where were they all?

Griselda opened her eyes -- garden, butterflies, cuckoo, all had
disappeared. She was in bed, and Dorcas was knocking at the door with
the hot water
she said
replied Griselda
she went on
said Dorcas
replied Griselda
she added to herself, as she
was putting on her slippers
And so Mr. Kneebreeches had no reason to complain of his pupil that day.

And Miss Grizzel congratulated herself more heartily than ever on her
wise management of children.

And Miss Tabitha repeated that Sister Grizzel might indeed congratulate
herself.

And Griselda became gradually more and more convinced that the only way
as yet discovered of getting through hard tasks is to set to work and
do them; also, that grumbling, as things are at present arranged in this
world, does not _always_, nor I may say _often_, do good; furthermore,
that an ill-tempered child is not, on the whole, likely to be as much
loved as a good-tempered one; lastly, that if you wait long enough,
winter will go and spring will come.

For this was the case this year, after all! Spring had only been sleepy
and lazy, and in such a case what could poor old winter do but fill the
vacant post till she came? Why he should be so scolded and reviled for
faithfully doing his best, as he often is, I really don't know. Not that
all the ill words he gets have much effect on him -- he comes again just
as usual, whatever we say of or to him. I suppose his feelings have long
ago been frozen up, or surely before this he would have taken
offence -- well for us that he has not done so!

But when the spring did come at last this year, it would be impossible
for me to tell you how Griselda enjoyed it. It was like new life to her
as well as to the plants, and flowers, and birds, and insects. Hitherto,
you see, she had been able to see very little of the outside of her
aunt's house; and charming as the inside was, the outside, I must say,
was still
There seemed no end to the little up-and-down
paths and alleys, leading to rustic seats and quaint arbours; no limits
to the little pine-wood, down into which led the dearest little
zig-zaggy path you ever saw, all bordered with snow-drops and primroses
and violets, and later on with periwinkles, and wood anemones, and those
bright, starry, white flowers, whose name no two people agree about.

This wood-path was the place, I think, which Griselda loved the best.
The bowling-green was certainly very delightful, and so was the terrace
where the famous roses grew; but lovely as the roses were (I am
speaking just now, of course, of later on in the summer, when they were
all in bloom), Griselda could not enjoy them as much as the
wild-flowers, for she was forbidden to gather or touch them, except with
her funny round nose
said Miss Grizzel, who was of opinion
that smell was not a pretty word
And Griselda did "scent" them, I assure you. She burrowed her whole rosy
face in the big ones; but gently, for she did not want to spoil them,
both for her aunt's sake, and because, too, she had a greater regard for
flowers now that she knew the secret of how they were painted, and what
a great deal of trouble the butterflies take about them.

But after a while one grows tired of "scenting" roses; and even the
trying to walk straight across the bowling-green with her eyes shut,
from the arbour at one side to the arbour exactly like it at the other,
grew stupid, though no doubt it would have been capital fun with a
companion to applaud or criticize.

So the wood-path became Griselda's favourite haunt. As the summer grew
on, she began to long more than ever for a companion -- not so much for
play, as for some one to play with. She had lessons, of course, just as
many as in the winter; but with the long days, there seemed to come a
quite unaccountable increase of play-time, and Griselda sometimes found
it hang heavy on her hands. She had not seen or heard anything of the
cuckoo either, save, of course, in his "official capacity" of
time-teller, for a very long time
she thought
But, failing companions, she did the best she could for herself, and
this was why she loved the path down into the wood so much. There was a
sort of mystery about it; it might have been the path leading to the
cottage of Red-Ridinghood's grandmother, or a path leading to fairyland
itself. There were all kinds of queer, nice, funny noises to be heard
there -- in one part of it especially, where Griselda made herself a seat
of some moss-grown stones, and where she came so often that she got to
know all the little flowers growing close round about, and even the
particular birds whose nests were hard by.

She used to sit there and _fancy_ -- fancy that she heard the wood-elves
chattering under their breath, or the little underground gnomes and
kobolds hammering at their fairy forges. And the tinkling of the brook
in the distance sounded like the enchanted bells round the necks of the
fairy kine, who are sent out to pasture sometimes on the upper world
hill-sides. For Griselda's head was crammed full, perfectly full, of
fairy lore; and the mandarins' country, and butterfly-land, were quite
as real to her as the every-day world about her.

But all this time she was not forgotten by the cuckoo, as you will see.

One day she was sitting in her favourite nest, feeling, notwithstanding
the sunshine, and the flowers, and the soft sweet air, and the pleasant
sounds all about, rather dull and lonely. For though it was only May, it
was really quite a hot day, and Griselda had been all the morning at her
lessons, and had tried very hard, and done them very well, and now she
felt as if she deserved some reward. Suddenly in the distance, she heard
a well-known sound
she said to herself; and in a moment she felt
sure that it must be. For, for some reason that I do not know enough
about the habits of real "flesh and blood" cuckoos to explain, that bird
was not known in the neighbourhood where Griselda's aunts lived. Some
twenty miles or so further south it was heard regularly, but all this
spring Griselda had never caught the sound of its familiar note, and she
now remembered hearing it never came to these parts.

So
she said to herself
She listened. Yes, again there it was
as plain as
possible, and nearer than before
cried Griselda
But there was no answer. Griselda held her breath to listen, but there
was nothing to be heard
she exclaimed
The tears came into her eyes, and she was beginning to think herself
very badly used, when suddenly a rustling in the bushes beside her made
her turn round, more than half expecting to see the cuckoo himself. But
it was not he. The rustling went on for a minute or two without anything
making its appearance, for the bushes were pretty thick just there, and
any one scrambling up from the pinewood below would have had rather hard
work to get through, and indeed for a very big person such a feat would
have been altogether impossible.

It was not a very big person, however, who was causing all the rustling,
and crunching of branches, and general commotion, which now absorbed
Griselda's attention. She sat watching for another minute in perfect
stillness, afraid of startling by the slightest movement the squirrel or
rabbit or creature of some kind which she expected to see. At last -- was
that a squirrel or rabbit -- that rosy, round face, with shaggy, fair hair
falling over the eager blue eyes, and a general look of breathlessness
and over-heatedness and determination?

A squirrel or a rabbit! No, indeed, but a very sturdy, very merry, very
ragged little boy
were the first words he
uttered, as soon as he had fairly shaken himself, though not by any
means all his clothes, free of the bushes (for ever so many pieces of
jacket and knickerbockers, not to speak of one boot and half his hat,
had been left behind on the way), and found breath to say something
Griselda stared at him for a moment without speaking. She was so
astonished. It was months since she had spoken to a child, almost since
she had seen one, and about children younger than herself she knew very
little at any time, being the baby of the family at home, you see,
and having only big brothers older than herself for play-fellows
she said at last
answered the little
boy
said Griselda, shaking her head
replied the little fellow undauntedly, looking
round him
said Griselda, getting rather vexed
said the little boy
His voice sounded almost as if he were going to cry, and his pretty,
hot, flushed face puckered up. Griselda's heart smote her; she looked at
him more carefully. He was such a very little boy, after all; she did
not like to be cross to him
she asked
he went on, peering up at Griselda
asked Griselda, rather surprised; for, to tell the
truth, from "Master Phil's" appearance, she had not felt at all sure
what _sort_ of little boy he was, or rather what sort of people he
belonged to
said the little boy,
opening wide his eyes in surprise at the question
said Griselda sadly
she went on, unconsciously
speaking as Phil would best understand her
said Phil; and the way in which he said it quite
overcame Griselda's unfriendliness
he
added, laughing, pointing to the terrible rents in his garments
said Griselda
said Griselda.

Phil shook his curly head
he said
he added insinuatingly
said Griselda
said Phil
he added
mysteriously
said Griselda, quite
forgetting to whom she was speaking
cried Phil, in great excitement
Griselda recollected herself
she said
said Phil, settling himself down comfortably
beside Griselda on her mossy stone
asked Griselda
said Phil gravely
said Griselda, dreamily
he called it "a gate deal") asked Phil,
looking up at Griselda with increased respect
said Griselda
said Master
Phil, clapping his hands
said Griselda
she went on, lowering her
voice a little, and looking down gravely into Phil's earnest eyes
said Phil
replied Griselda
observed Phil, in a parenthesis. Then he
went on with his cross-questioning
said
Griselda
said Phil, importantly
said Griselda, smiling
said Griselda
said Phil composedly
said Griselda gravely
said the little boy submissively
said Phil
he exclaimed,
darting off
Of course he couldn't catch him, nor could Griselda either; very ready,
though, she was to do her best. But it was great fun all the same, and
the children laughed heartily and enjoyed themselves tremendously. And
when they were tired they sat down again and gathered flowers for
nosegays, and Griselda was surprised to find how clever Phil was about
it. He was much quicker than she at spying out the prettiest blossoms,
however hidden behind tree, or stone, or shrub. And he told her of all
the best places for flowers near by, and where grew the largest
primroses and the sweetest violets, in a way that astonished her
she said
he said innocently
When Griselda thought it was time to go home, she led little Phil down
the wood-path, and through the door in the wall opening on to the lane
she said
asked Phil
observed Griselda sagely
said little Phil as he trotted off
_A Liliput
     Revel_.


_Not_ having
and feeling very much inclined for
her tea, Griselda ran home at a great rate.

She felt, too, in such good spirits; it had been so delightful to have a
companion in her play
she said to herself
Tea was quite ready, in fact waiting for her, when she came in. This was
a meal she always had by herself, brought up on a tray to Dorcas's
little sitting-room, where Dorcas waited upon her. And sometimes when
Griselda was in a particularly good humour she would beg Dorcas to sit
down and have a cup of tea with her -- a liberty the old servant was far
too dignified and respectful to have thought of taking, unless specially
requested to do so.

This evening, as you know, Griselda was in a very particularly good
humour, and besides this, so very full of her adventures, that she would
have been glad of an even less sympathising listener than Dorcas was
likely to be
she said coaxingly
said Dorcas,
smiling, as she seated herself on the chair Griselda had drawn in for
her
said Griselda saucily
said Dorcas
exclaimed Dorcas, aghast
said Griselda
began Dorcas
said Griselda sharply
said Griselda, looking up fearlessly into Dorcas's face
with her bright grey eyes
repeated Dorcas, in a tone of some relief
said Griselda
said Dorcas
said Griselda
And the old look of rebellion and discontent settled down again on her
rosy face
said Dorcas
anxiously, an hour later, when Griselda, dressed as usual in her little
white muslin frock, was ready to join her aunts at dessert.

But Griselda would not condescend to make any reply
she said suddenly, when she had eaten an orange and
three biscuits and drunk half a glass of home-made elderberry wine
Griselda knew she was not making her request in a very amiable or
becoming manner; she knew, indeed, that she was making it in such a way
as was almost certain to lead to its being refused; and yet, though she
was really so very, very anxious to get leave to play with little Phil,
she took a sort of spiteful pleasure in injuring her own cause.

How _foolish_ ill-temper makes us! Griselda had allowed herself to get
so angry at the _thought_ of being thwarted that had her aunt looked up
quietly and said at once
she would really, in a strange distorted
sort of way, have been _disappointed_.

But, of course, Miss Grizzel made no such reply. Nothing less than a
miracle could have made her answer Griselda otherwise than as she did.
Like Dorcas, for an instant, she was utterly
if you
know what that means. For she was really quite an old lady, you know,
and sensible as she was, things upset her much more easily than when she
was younger.

Naughty Griselda saw her uneasiness, and enjoyed it
exclaimed Miss Grizzel
said Griselda coolly
said her aunt
cried Griselda, blazing
up
repeated Miss Grizzel
said Griselda, starting up from her
chair
She banged across the room as she spoke, and out at the door, slamming
it behind her rudely. Then upstairs like a whirlwind; but when she got
to her own room, she sat down on the floor and burst into tears, and
when Dorcas came up, nearly half an hour later, she was still in the
same place, crouched up in a little heap, sobbing bitterly
said Dorcas
As Griselda rushed out of the room Miss Grizzel leant back in her chair
and sighed deeply
she said faintly
said Miss Tabitha, softly shaking her head, which somehow
made her look wonderfully like an old cat, for she felt cold of an
evening and usually wore a very fine woolly shawl of a delicate grey
shade, and the borders of her cap and the ruffles round her throat and
wrists were all of fluffy, downy white
she said
said Miss Grizzel, recovering herself a little
said Miss Tabitha with more energy than
usual
But Miss Grizzel did not feel happy.

When she went up to her own room at night she was surprised to find
Dorcas waiting for her, instead of the younger maid
she said
said Miss Grizzel
said Dorcas
repeated Miss Grizzel
replied Dorcas
Miss Grizzel listened attentively
she said, when the old servant had left off
speaking
Dorcas did not wait till
she could not bear to
think of Griselda's unhappiness. From her mistress's room she went
straight to the little girl's, going in very softly, so as not to
disturb her should she be sleeping
she said gently.

Griselda started up
she exclaimed
said Dorcas to herself
But aloud she only replied
said Griselda
said Dorcas
said Griselda, beginning to cry again
Dorcas saw that the little girl was worn out and excited, and not yet
inclined to take a reasonable view of things
she said kindly
Her patience touched Griselda
she said
But notwithstanding her distress, when Dorcas had left her she did feel
her heart a little lighter, and somehow or other before long she fell
asleep.

When she awoke it seemed to be suddenly, and she had the feeling that
something had disturbed her. She lay for a minute or two perfectly
still -- listening. Yes; there it was -- the soft, faint rustle in the air
that she knew so well. It seemed as if something was moving away from
her
she said gently
A moment's pause, then came the answer -- the pretty greeting she
expected
soft and musical. Then the cuckoo spoke
he said
said Griselda sharply. She was not yet feeling
quite as amiable as might have been desired, you see
she repeated
replied the cuckoo
said
Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
repeated Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, stroking gently the soft feathers which seemed to
be close under her hand
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo.

Somehow Griselda had to try.

She held out her arms in the cuckoo's direction, as if she expected his
neck to be about the size of a Shetland pony's, or a large Newfoundland
dog's; and, to her astonishment, so it was! A nice, comfortable,
feathery neck it felt -- so soft that she could not help laying her head
down upon it, and nestling in the downy cushion
said the cuckoo.

Then he seemed to give a little spring, and Griselda felt herself
altogether lifted on to his back. She lay there as comfortably as
possible -- it felt so firm as well as soft. Up he flew a little way -- then
stopped short
he inquired
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
It was quite true. Griselda shut her eyes tight. She felt nothing but a
pleasant sort of rush. Then she heard the cuckoo's voice, saying
Griselda did so. Where were they?

They were floating about above the top of the house, which Griselda saw
down below them, looking dark and vast. She felt confused and
bewildered
she said
said the cuckoo
persisted Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
replied Griselda, giving the cuckoo's neck an
affectionate hug as she spoke
said the cuckoo
and off he flew
again.

Griselda shut her eyes and lay still. It was delicious -- the gliding, yet
darting motion, like nothing she had ever felt before. It did not make
her the least giddy, either; but a slightly sleepy feeling came over
her. She felt no inclination to open her eyes; and, indeed, at the rate
they were going, she could have distinguished very little had she done
so.

Suddenly the feeling in the air about her changed. For an instant it
felt more _rushy_ than before, and there was a queer, dull sound in her
ears. Then she felt that the cuckoo had stopped
she asked
said the cuckoo
Griselda found herself in a little bedroom, quite a tiny one, and by the
look of the simple furniture and the latticed window, she saw that she
was not in a grand house. But everything looked very neat and nice, and
on a little bed in one corner lay a lovely sleeping child. It was Phil!
He looked so pretty asleep -- his shaggy curls all tumbling about, his
rosy mouth half open as if smiling, one little hand tossed over his
head, the other tight clasping a little basket which he had insisted on
taking to bed with him, meaning as soon as he was dressed the next
morning to run out and fill it with flowers for the little girl he had
made friends with.

Griselda stepped up to the side of the bed on tiptoe. The cuckoo had
disappeared, but Griselda heard his voice. It seemed to come from a
little way up the chimney
said the cuckoo
Then came the old note, soft and musical as ever
said the cuckoo, and without
opening his eyes a change passed over the little boy's face. Griselda
could see that he was listening to hear her message
she said to herself with a smile.
Then she whispered softly
murmured Phil. Then he put out his two arms towards
Griselda, all without opening his eyes, and she, bending down, kissed
him softly
he whispered, like a baby almost. Then he turned
over and went to sleep more soundly than before
said the cuckoo
Griselda obediently made her way to the place whence the cuckoo's voice
seemed to come
said the cuckoo.

She did not hesitate this time. It all happened just as before. There
came the same sort of rushy sound; then the cuckoo stopped, and
Griselda opened her eyes.

They were up in the air again -- a good way up, too, for some grand old
elms that stood beside the farmhouse were gently waving their topmost
branches a yard or two from where the cuckoo was poising himself and
Griselda
he said
exclaimed Griselda
said
the cuckoo
said Griselda
asked the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo.

Just then a faint "soughing" sound among the branches suggested another
idea to Griselda
she exclaimed
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
cried Griselda
said the cuckoo, and off they set. Had ever a little
girl such a flight before? Floating, darting, gliding, sailing -- no words
can describe it. Griselda lay still in delight, gazing all about her
she said
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
replied the cuckoo
said Griselda
replied the cuckoo.

Griselda gave a little wriggle
she said
said the cuckoo
interrupted Griselda
said the cuckoo
said the
cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, rather reluctantly
continued the cuckoo
said Griselda again
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, with a shudder
The cuckoo was silent for a moment. Then suddenly he stopped short in
the middle of his flight
he said
he added to himself
cried Griselda, clasping her
hands
said the cuckoo
said the cuckoo drily
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda.

She had hardly said the words when she seemed to fall asleep. The
rushing sound in the air all round her increased so greatly that she was
conscious of nothing else. For a moment or two she tried to remember
where she was, and where she was going, but it was useless. She forgot
everything, and knew nothing more of what was passing till -- till she
heard the cuckoo again
he said.

Griselda sat up.

Where was she?

Not certainly where she had been when she went to sleep. Not on the
cuckoo's back, for there he was standing beside her, as tiny as usual.
Either he had grown little again, or she had grown big -- which, she
supposed, it did not much matter. Only it was very queer
she said
he replied
Griselda looked about her. What did she see? Something that I can only
give you a faint idea of, children; something so strange and unlike what
she had ever seen before, that only in a dream could you see it as
Griselda saw it. And yet _why_ it seemed to her so strange and unnatural
I cannot well explain; if I could, my words would be as good as
pictures, which I know they are not.

After all, it was only the sea she saw; but such a great, strange,
silent sea, for there were no waves. Griselda was seated on the shore,
close beside the water's edge, but it did not come lapping up to her
feet in the pretty, coaxing way that _our_ sea does when it is in a good
humour. There were here and there faint ripples on the surface, caused
by the slight breezes which now and then came softly round Griselda's
face, but that was all. King Canute might have sat "from then till now"
by this still, lifeless ocean without the chance of reading his silly
attendants a lesson -- if, indeed, there ever were such silly people,
which I very much doubt.

Griselda gazed with all her eyes. Then she suddenly gave a little
shiver
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
cried Griselda
said the cuckoo
continued Griselda
replied the cuckoo
she replied
said the cuckoo
interrupted Griselda, beseechingly
said the cuckoo
said Griselda
replied the cuckoo
said Griselda
said the cuckoo
His tone was rather solemn, and again Griselda felt a little
she said
said the cuckoo
asked Griselda, after a little pause
said the cuckoo
said the cuckoo
said Griselda humbly
said the cuckoo, meditatively.

He was silent for a minute. Then he spoke again
he said
Griselda looked. Far, far over the sea, in the silent distance, she saw
a tiny speck of light. It was very tiny; but yet the strange thing was
that, far away as it appeared, and minute as it was, it seemed to throw
off a thread of light to Griselda's very feet -- right across the great
sheet of faintly gleaming water. And as Griselda looked, the thread
seemed to widen and grow, becoming at the same time brighter and
clearer, till at last it lay before her like a path of glowing light
she said softly to the cuckoo
he replied
Griselda waited, looking still, and presently in the middle of the
shining streak she saw something slowly moving -- something from which the
light came, for the nearer it got to her the shorter grew the glowing
path, and behind the moving object the sea looked no brighter than
before it had appeared.

At last -- at last, it came quite near -- near enough for Griselda to
distinguish clearly what it was.

It was a little boat -- the prettiest, the loveliest little boat that ever
was seen; and it was rowed by a little figure that at first sight
Griselda felt certain was a fairy. For it was a child with bright hair
and silvery wings, which with every movement sparkled and shone like a
thousand diamonds.

Griselda sprang up and clapped her hands with delight. At the sound, the
child in the boat turned and looked at her. For one instant she could
not remember where she had seen him before; then she exclaimed,
joyfully
But, alas, as she spoke the light faded away, the boy's figure
disappeared, the sea and the shore and the sky were all as they had been
before, lighted only by the faint, strange gleaming of the stars. Only
the boat remained. Griselda saw it close to her, in the shallow water, a
few feet from where she stood
she exclaimed in a tone of reproach and disappointment
said the cuckoo
said Griselda, feeling ready to cry
said the cuckoo
Griselda did as she was told. She was beginning to feel rather tired,
and it certainly was very comfortable at the bottom of the boat, with
the nice warm feather-mantle well tucked round her
she said sleepily
said the cuckoo; and whether he rowed or not Griselda never
knew.

Off they glided somehow, but it seemed to Griselda that _somebody_
rowed, for she heard the soft dip, dip of the oars as they went along,
so regularly that she couldn't help beginning to count in time -- one,
two, three, four -- on, on -- she thought she had got nearly to a hundred,
when
When she forgot everything, and fell fast, fast asleep, to wake, of
course, in her own little bed as usual
she said to herself with a
smile
There came a tap at the door. It was Dorcas with the hot water
she said gently, not feeling, to tell the truth,
very sure as to what sort of a humour "missie" was likely to be found in
this morning
replied Griselda amiably, smiling to herself at the thought of what
Dorcas would say if she knew where she had been, and what she had been
doing since last she saw her
said Dorcas in a tone of relief
said Dorcas approvingly
said Griselda dreamily, when, a few minutes
later, she was standing by the window while the old servant brushed out
her thick, wavy hair
replied Dorcas,
somewhat mystified
said Griselda, resolutely
Dorcas was both delighted and astonished. Never had she known her little
"missie" so altogether submissive and reasonable
she said to herself. But
she proved a skilful ambassadress, notwithstanding her misgivings; and
Griselda's imprisonment confined her only to the bounds of the house and
terrace walk, instead of within the four walls of her own little room,
as she had feared.

Lessons _were_ very well done that day, and Mr. Kneebreeches' report was
all that could be wished
he remarked to Miss Grizzel
replied Miss Grizzel graciously, and
the kiss with which she answered Griselda's request for forgiveness was
a very hearty one.

And it was "all right" about Phil.

Lady Lavander knew all about him; his father and mother were friends of
hers, for whom she had a great regard, and for some time she had been
intending to ask the little boy to spend the day at Merrybrow Hall, to
be introduced to her god-daughter Griselda. So, _of course_, as Lady
Lavander knew all about him, there could be no objection to his playing
in Miss Grizzel's garden!

And "to-morrow" turned out a fine day. So altogether you can imagine
that Griselda felt very happy and light-hearted as she ran down the
wood-path to meet her little friend, whose rosy face soon appeared among
the bushes
asked Griselda
said Phil mysteriously
Griselda smiled
she said
said Phil
said Griselda; and off they set.

Whether it was the way to fairyland or not, it was not to be wondered at
that little Phil thought so. He led Griselda right across the wood to a
part where she had never been before. It was pretty rough work part of
the way. The children had to fight with brambles and bushes, and here
and there to creep through on hands and knees, and Griselda had to
remind Phil several times of her promise to his nurse that his clothes
should not be the worse for his playing with her, to prevent his
scrambling through "anyhow" and leaving bits of his knickerbockers
behind him.

But when at last they reached Phil's favourite spot all their troubles
were forgotten. Oh, how pretty it was! It was a sort of tiny glade in
the very middle of the wood -- a little green nest enclosed all round by
trees, and right through it the merry brook came rippling along as if
rejoicing at getting out into the sunlight again for a while. And all
the choicest and sweetest of the early summer flowers seemed to be
collected here in greater variety and profusion than in any other part
of the wood
said Phil, as he nestled down beside Griselda on the
soft, mossy grass
said Griselda
Then at Phil's suggestion they set to work to make themselves a house in
the centre of this fairies' garden, as he called it. They managed it
very much to their own satisfaction, by dragging some logs of wood and
big stones from among the brushwood hard by, and filling the holes up
with bracken and furze
said Phil
Then they had to gather flowers to ornament the house inside, and dry
leaves and twigs all ready for a fire in one corner. Altogether it was
quite a business, I can assure you, and when it was finished they were
very hot and very tired and _rather_ dirty. Suddenly a thought struck
Griselda
she said
he said coolly
said Phil, diving at a little opening among the bushes.

Griselda followed him. He had been a good guide hitherto, and she
certainly could not have found her way alone. They scrambled on for some
way, then the bushes suddenly seemed to grow less thick, and in a minute
they came out upon a little path
said Griselda
said Phil, looking about him
said Griselda
replied Phil valiantly
said Phil
said Griselda in
distress
They had followed the little path till it came to a point where two
roads, rough cart-ruts only, met; or, rather, where the path ran across
the road. Right, or left, or straight on, which should it be? Griselda
stood still in perplexity. Already it was growing dusk; already the
moon's soft light was beginning faintly to glimmer through the branches.
Griselda looked up to the sky
she said to herself
The remembrance put another thought into her mind
she said softly
Then she stood still and listened, holding Phil's cold little hands in
her own.

She was not disappointed. Presently, in the distance, came the
well-known cry
so soft and far away, but yet so
clear.

Phil clapped his hands
he cried joyfully
and, pulling
Griselda along, he darted down the road to the right -- the direction from
whence came the cry.

They had some way to go, for they had wandered far in a wrong direction,
but the cuckoo never failed them. Whenever they were at a loss -- whenever
the path turned or divided, they heard his clear, sweet call; and,
without the least misgiving, they followed it, till at last it brought
them out upon the high-road, a stone's throw from Farmer Crouch's gate
exclaimed Phil
said Griselda
There was a little bustle about the door of the farmhouse as the
children wearily came up to it. Two or three men were standing together
receiving directions from Mr. Crouch himself, and Phil's nurse was
talking eagerly. Suddenly she caught sight of the truants
she exclaimed
said Master Phil, putting
on his lordly air
More to please Phil than from any wish for
for she was really
in a fidget to get home, Griselda let the little boy lead her into the
parlour. But she was for a moment perfectly startled by the cry that
broke from him when he opened the door and looked into the room. A lady
was standing there, gazing out of the window, though in the quickly
growing darkness she could hardly have distinguished the little figure
she was watching for so anxiously.

The noise of the door opening made her look round
she cried
shouted Phil, darting into his mother's arms.

But Griselda drew back into the shadow of the doorway, and tears filled
her eyes as for a minute or two she listened to the cooings and
caressings of the mother and son.

Only for a minute, however. Then Phil called to her
he cried again
he added in a lower tone.

The lady put her arm round Griselda, and kissed her, too. She did not
seem surprised
she said very kindly, looking into her
face with her gentle eyes, blue and clear like Phil's.

And then Griselda found courage to say how uneasy she was about the
anxiety her aunts would be feeling, and a messenger was sent off at once
to tell of her being safe at the farm.

But Griselda herself the kind lady would not let go till she had had
some nice supper with Phil, and was both warmed and rested
she asked
presently
explained
Phil
asked his mother, smiling.

Griselda shook her head as she replied
she said gently
She looked up in the lady's face as she spoke, and saw that _she_
understood
she answered softly, and perhaps a very little sadly
Griselda slid her hand into the lady's
she whispered
she answered
Griselda had a curious dream that night -- merely a dream, nothing else.
She dreamt that the cuckoo came once more; this time, he told her, to
say
he said
And when Griselda tried to speak to him, to thank him for his goodness,
to beg him still sometimes to come to see her, he gently fluttered away
he warbled; but somehow the last "cuckoo"
sounded like
In the morning, when Griselda awoke, her pillow was wet with tears. Thus
many stories end. She was happy, very happy in the thought of her kind
new friends; but there were tears for the one she felt she had said
farewell to, even though he was only a cuckoo in a clock
</text>
