<text>
No one can be more sensible than is the Author that the present is an
overgrown book of a nondescript class, neither the "tale" for the young,
nor the novel for their elders, but a mixture of both.

Begun as a series of conversational sketches, the story outran both
the original intention and the limits of the periodical in which it was
commenced; and, such as it has become, it is here presented to those who
have already made acquaintance with the May family, and may be willing
to see more of them. It would beg to be considered merely as what it
calls itself, a Family Chronicle -- a domestic record of home events,
large and small, during those years of early life when the character
is chiefly formed, and as an endeavour to trace the effects of those
aspirations which are a part of every youthful nature. That the young
should take one hint, to think whether their hopes and upward-breathings
are truly upwards, and founded in lowliness, may be called the moral of
the tale.

For those who may deem the story too long, and the characters too
numerous, the Author can only beg their pardon for any tedium that they
may have undergone before giving it up. Feb. 22nd, 1856
Si douce est la Marguerite.-- CHAUCER
with an impatient twist
said a thin, lank, angular, sallow girl, just fifteen,
trembling from head to foot with restrained eagerness, as she tried to
curb her tone into the requisite civility
said the prim, middle-aged
daily governess, taking off her bonnet, and arranging the stiff little
rolls of curl at the long, narrow looking-glass, the border of which
distorted the countenance
properly responded Flora, a pretty, fair girl, nearly
two years older than her sister
began to burst from Etheldred's lips again, but was stifled
by Miss Winter's inquiry
said both at once
And
Flora added
whispered Ethel to herself,
wriggling fearfully on the wide window-seat on which she had
precipitated herself, and kicking at the bar of the table, by which
manifestation she of course succeeded in deferring her hopes, by a
reproof which caused her to draw herself into a rigid, melancholy
attitude, a sort of penance of decorum, but a rapid motion of the
eyelids, a tendency to crack the joints of the fingers, and an
unquietness at the ends of her shoes, betraying the restlessness of the
digits therein contained.

It was such a room as is often to be found in old country town houses,
the two large windows looking out on a broad old-fashioned street,
through heavy framework, and panes of glass scratched with various names
and initials. The walls were painted blue, the skirting almost a third
of the height, and so wide at the top as to form a narrow shelf. The
fireplace, constructed in the days when fires were made to give as
little heat as possible, was ornamented with blue and white Dutch
tiles bearing marvellous representations of Scripture history, and was
protected by a very tall green guard; the chairs were much of the same
date, solid and heavy, the seats in faded carpet-work, but there was a
sprinkling of lesser ones and of stools; a piano; a globe; a large table
in the middle of the room, with three desks on it; a small one, and a
light cane chair by each window; and loaded book-cases. Flora began
Ethel was on her feet, and open-mouthed
exclaimed the governess in dismay
cried Ethel
interposed Flora
said Flora
Miss Winter looked perplexed
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Flora
cried Ethel
Ethel had clapped after her the heavy door with its shining brass lock,
before Miss Winter well knew what she was about, and the governess
seemed annoyed
said she
said Flora
said Flora
She was interrupted by the entrance of a fine tall blooming girl
of eighteen, holding in her hand a pretty little maid of five
said Margaret
began the governess, but stopped at the incursion of
some new-comers, nearly tumbling over each other, Ethel at the head
of them
as the gathers of her frock gave way in the
rude grasp of a twelve-year-old boy
hallooed Harry
valiantly exclaimed Tom; and while
threats were passing among the boys, Margaret asked, in a low voice
Miss Winter glanced unutterable things at Margaret, and Ethel began to
perceive she had done something wrong. Flora was going to speak, when
Margaret, trying to appear unconscious of a certain deepening colour in
her own cheeks, pressed a hand on her shoulder, and whispering
glided out of the room
said Harry
said Flora
asked Mary, a blunt downright girl
of ten
said Ethel
said Miss Winter; and
Ethel, seating herself on the corner of the window-seat, with one leg
doubled under her, took up a Shakespeare, holding it close to her
eyes, and her brother Norman, who, in age, came between her and Flora,
kneeling on one knee on the window-seat, and supporting himself with one
arm against the shutter, leaned over her, reading it too, disregarding a
tumultuous skirmish going on in that division of the family collectively
termed
namely, Harry, Mary, and Tom, until Tom was suddenly
pushed down, and tumbled over into Ethel's lap, thereby upsetting
her and Norman together, and there was a general downfall, and a loud
scream
cried Harry, dealing out thumps indiscriminately
said Mary, rushing among them, and bringing out a green
sphynx caterpillar on her finger
cried Norman, over all, with the voice of an authority,
as he leaped up lightly and set Tom on his legs again
he added warningly
said Ethel
sighed Miss Winter
replied Flora
said Miss Winter in a
low voice to Flora, who shook her head, and said confidentially
Here entered, with a baby in her arms, a lady with a beautiful
countenance of calm sweetness, looking almost too young to be the mother
of the tall Margaret, who followed her. There was a general hush as she
greeted Miss Winter, the girls crowding round to look at their little
sister, not quite six weeks old
said the
mother, while the impatient speech was repeated
said the mother to Miss
Winter as Margaret departed
said Mrs. May, smiling
said Miss Winter
said her mother, smiling
answered Harry
Mrs. May laughed, and proceeded to advise Ethel and Norman to put away
Henry V., and find the places in their Bibles
said she.

In the meantime Margaret, with the little babe, to-morrow to be her
godchild, lying gently in her arms, came out into the matted hall, and
began to mount the broad shallow-stepped staircase, protected by low
stout balusters, with a very thick, flat, and solid mahogany hand-rail,
polished by the boys' constant riding up and down upon it. She was only
on the first step, when the dining-room door opened, and there came out
a young man, slight, and delicate-looking, with bright blue eyes, and
thickly-curling light hair
he said, smiling
said Margaret
and on she went, while he called after her
She did not gainsay it, but there was a little sigh of disappointment,
and when she was out of hearing, she whispered
Then depositing her little charge with the nurse, and trying to cheer up
a solemn-looking boy of three, who evidently considered his deposition
from babyhood as a great injury, she tripped lightly down again, to take
part in the Saturday's reading and catechising.

It was pleasant to see that large family in the hush and reverence of
such teaching, the mother's gentle power preventing the outbreaks of
restlessness to which even at such times the wild young spirits were
liable. Margaret and Miss Winter especially rejoiced in it on this
occasion, the first since the birth of the baby, that she had been able
to preside. Under her, though seemingly without her taking any trouble,
there was none of the smothered laughing at the little mistakes, the
fidgeting of the boys, or Harry's audacious impertinence to Miss Winter;
and no less glad was Harry to have his mother there, and be guarded from
himself.

The Catechism was repeated, and a comment on the Sunday Services read
aloud. The Gospel was that on the taking the lowest place, and when they
had finished, Ethel said
said Norman thoughtfully
said
Ethel
said Flora
said Mrs. May
And Margaret looked earnestly at her mother, but did not speak
said Mary
The "boys" availed themselves of the permission. Norman tarried to put
his books into a neat leather case, and Ethel stood thinking
said she
said her mother
said Margaret
said Flora
said Norman
cried Ethel
said Norman
exclaimed Ethel
said Ethel, bending her brow, with the fullness of her
thought
said her mother
she added, smiling, as she put her hand
on a little Greek Testament, in which Ethel had been reading it, within
her English Bible
cried Ethel, rushing headlong upstairs,
twice tripping in it before she reached the attic, where she slept, as
well as Flora and Mary -- a large room in the roof, the windows gay with
bird-cages and flowers, a canary singing loud enough to deafen any one
but girls to whom headaches were unknown, plenty of books and treasures,
and a very fine view, from the dormer window, of the town sloping
downwards, and the river winding away, with some heathy hills in the
distance. Poking and peering about with her short-sighted eyes, Ethel
lighted on a work-basket in rare disorder, pulled off her frock, threw
on a shawl, and sat down cross-legged on her bed, stitching vigorously,
while meantime she spouted with great emphasis an ode of Horace, which
Norman having learned by heart, she had followed his example; it being
her great desire to be even with him in all his studies, and though
eleven months younger, she had never yet fallen behind him. On Saturday,
he showed her what were his tasks for the week, and as soon as her rent
was repaired, she swung herself downstairs in search of him for this
purpose. She found him in the drawing-room, a pretty, pleasant room -- its
only fault that it was rather too low. It had windows opening down to
the lawn, and was full of pretty things, works and knick-knacks. Ethel
found the state of affairs unfavourable to her. Norman was intent on
a book on the sofa, and at the table sat Mr. Ernescliffe, hard at work
with calculations and mathematical instruments. Ethel would not for the
world that any one should guess at her classical studies -- she scarcely
liked to believe that even her father knew of them, and to mention them
before Mr. Ernescliffe would have been dreadful. So she only shoved
Norman, and asked him to come
he said
said she, poking her head into the book
She read over him a few minutes, then recoiled
She fidgeted, till Mr. Ernescliffe asked Norman if there was a table of
logarithms in the house
she answered
He was conscious of nothing but his book; however, she found the
logarithms, and brought them to Mr. Ernescliffe, staying to look at his
drawing, and asking what he was making out. He replied, smiling at the
impossibility of her understanding, but she wrinkled her brown forehead,
hooked her long nose, and spent the next hour in amateur navigation.

Market Stoneborough was a fine old town. The Minster, grand with the
architecture of the time of Henry III., stood beside a broad river, and
round it were the buildings of a convent, made by a certain good Bishop
Whichcote, the nucleus of a grammar school, which had survived the
Reformation, and trained up many good scholars; among them, one of
England's princely merchants, Nicholas Randall, whose effigy knelt in
a niche in the chancel wall, scarlet-cloaked, white-ruffed, and black
doubletted, a desk bearing an open Bible before him, and a twisted
pillar of Derbyshire spar on each side. He was the founder of thirteen
almshouses, and had endowed two scholarships at Oxford, the object of
ambition of the Stoneborough boys, every eighteen months.

There were about sixty or seventy boarders, and the town boys slept at
home, and spent their weekly holiday there on Saturday -- the happiest
day in the week to the May family, when alone, they had the company at
dinner of Norman and Harry, otherwise known by their school names of
June and July, given them because their elder brother had begun the
series of months as May.

Some two hundred years back, a Dr. Thomas May had been headmaster, but
ever since that time there had always been an M. D., not a D. D., in
the family, owning a comfortable demesne of spacious garden, and field
enough for two cows, still green and intact, among modern buildings and
improvements.

The present Dr. May stood very high in his profession, and might soon
have made a large fortune in London, had he not held fast to his
home attachments. He was extremely skilful and clever, with a boyish
character that seemed as if it could never grow older; ardent,
sensitive, and heedless, with a quickness of sympathy and tenderness of
heart that was increased, rather than blunted, by exercise in scenes of
suffering.

At the end of the previous summer holidays, Dr. May had been called one
morning to attend a gentleman who had been taken very ill, at the Swan
Inn.

He was received by a little boy of ten years old, in much grief,
explaining that his brother had come two days ago from London, to bring
him to school here; he had seemed unwell ever since they met, and last
night had become much worse. And extremely ill the doctor found him;
a youth of two or three and twenty, suffering under a severe attack of
fever, oppressed, and scarcely conscious, so as quite to justify his
little brother's apprehensions. He advised the boy to write to his
family, but was answered by a look that went to his heart
was all he had in the world -- father and mother were dead, and their
relations lived in Scotland, and were hardly known to them
said the boy proudly
The boy would have gone on for ever, if Dr. May had not recalled him to
his brother's present condition, and proceeded to take every measure
for the welfare and comfort of the forlorn pair. He learned from other
sources that the Ernescliffes were well connected. The father had been
a distinguished officer, but had been ill able to provide for his sons;
indeed, he died, without ever having seen little Hector, who was born
during his absence on a voyage -- his last, and Alan's first. Alan, the
elder by thirteen years, had been like a father to the little boy,
showing judgment and self-denial that marked him of a high cast of
character. He had distinguished himself in encounters with slave ships,
and in command of a prize that he had had to conduct to Sierra Leone,
he had shown great coolness and seamanship, in several perilous
conjunctures, such as a sudden storm, and an encounter with another
slaver, when his Portuguese prisoners became mutinous, and nothing but
his steadiness and intrepidity had saved the lives of himself and his
few English companions. He was, in fact, as Dr. May reported, pretty
much of a hero. He had not, at the time, felt the effects of the
climate, but, owing to sickness and death among the other officers, he
had suffered much fatigue and pressure of mind and body. Immediately on
his return, had followed his examination, and though he had passed with
great credit, and it had been at once followed by well-earned promotion,
his nervous excitable frame had been overtasked, and the consequence was
a long and severe illness.

The Swan Inn was not forty yards from Dr. May's back gate, and, at
every spare moment, he was doing the part of nurse as well as doctor,
professionally obliged to Alan Ernescliffe for bringing him a curious
exotic specimen of fever, and requiting him by the utmost care and
attention, while, for their own sakes, he delighted in the two boys with
all the enthusiasm of his warm heart. Before the first week was at
an end, they had learned to look on the doctor as one of the kindest
friends it had been their lot to meet with, and Alan knew that if he
died, he should leave his little brother in the hands of one who would
comfort him as a father.

No sooner was young Ernescliffe able to sit up, than Dr. May insisted on
conveying him to his own house, as his recovery was likely to be tedious
in solitude at the Swan. It was not till he had been drawn in a chair
along the sloping garden, and placed on the sofa to rest, that he
discovered that the time the good doctor had chosen for bringing a
helpless convalescent to his house, was two days after an eleventh child
had been added to his family.

Mrs. May was too sorry for the solitary youth, and too sympathising
with her husband, to make any objection, though she was not fond of
strangers, and had some anxieties. She had the utmost dependence on
Margaret's discretion, but there was a chance of awkward situations,
which papa was not likely to see or guard against. However, all seemed
to do very well, and no one ever came into her room without some degree
of rapture about Mr. Ernescliffe. The doctor reiterated praises of his
excellence, his principle, his ability and talent, his amusing talk; the
girls were always bringing reports of his perfections; Norman retracted
his grumbling at having his evenings spoiled; and "the boys" were
bursting with the secret that he was teaching them to rig a little ship
that was to astonish mamma on her first coming downstairs, and to be
named after the baby; while Blanche did all the coquetry with him, from
which Margaret abstained. The universal desire was for mamma to see him,
and when the time came, she owned that papa's swan had not turned out a
goose.

There were now no grounds for prolonging his stay; but it was very hard
to go, and he was glad to avail himself of the excuse of remaining for
the christening, when he was to represent the absent godfather. After
that, he must go; he had written to his Scottish cousins to offer a
visit, and he had a promise that he should soon be afloat again. No
place would ever seem to him so like home as Market Stoneborough. He was
quite like one of themselves, and took a full share in the discussions
on the baby's name, which, as all the old family appellations had been
used up, was an open question. The doctor protested against Alice and
Edith, which he said were the universal names in the present day. The
boys hissed every attempt of their sisters at a romantic name, and
then Harry wanted it to be Atalantis! At last Dr. May announced that
he should have her named Dowsabel if they did not agree, and Mrs. May
advised all the parties concerned to write their choice on a slip of
paper, and little Aubrey should draw two out of her bag, trusting that
Atalantis Dowsabel would not come out, as Harry confidently predicted.

However, it was even worse, Aubrey's two lots were Gertrude and
Margaret. Ethel and Mary made a vehement uproar to discover who could
have written Margaret, and at last traced it home to Mr. Ernescliffe,
who replied that Flora, without saying why, had desired him to set down
his favourite name. He was much disconcerted, and did not materially
mend the matter by saying it was the first name that came into his head
Meadows trim with daisies pied.-- MILTON.


Ethel's navigation lesson was interrupted by the dinner-bell. That long
table was a goodly sight. Few ever looked happier than Dr. and Mrs. May,
as they sat opposite to each other, presenting a considerable contrast
in appearance as in disposition. She was a little woman, with that
smooth pleasant plumpness that seems to belong to perfect content and
serenity, her complexion fair and youthful, her face and figure very
pretty, and full of quiet grace and refinement, and her whole air and
expression denoting a serene, unruffled, affectionate happiness, yet
with much authority in her mildness -- warm and open in her own family,
but reserved beyond it, and shrinking from general society.

The doctor, on the contrary, had a lank, bony figure, nearly six feet
high, and looking more so from his slightness; a face sallow, thin,
and strongly marked, an aquiline nose, highly developed forehead, and
peculiar temples, over which the hair strayed in thin curling flakes.
His eyes were light coloured, and were seldom seen without his
near-sighted spectacles, but the expressions of the mouth were
everything -- so varying, so bright, and so sweet were his smiles that
showed beautiful white teeth -- moreover, his hand was particularly well
made, small and delicate; and it always turned out that no one ever
recollected that Dr. May was plain, who had heard his kindly greeting.

The sons and daughters were divided in likeness to father and mother;
Ethel was almost an exaggeration of the doctor's peculiarities,
especially at the formed, but unsoftened age of fifteen; Norman had his
long nose, sallow complexion, and tall figure, but was much improved by
his mother's fine blue eyes, and was a very pleasant-looking boy, though
not handsome; little Tom was a thin, white, delicate edition of his
father; and Blanche contrived to combine great likeness to him with a
great deal of prettiness. Of those that, as nurse said, favoured their
mamma, Margaret was tall and blooming, with the same calm eyes, but with
the brilliance of her father's smile; Flora had greater regularity of
feature, and was fast becoming a very pretty girl, while Mary and
Harry could not boast of much beauty, but were stout sturdy pictures of
health; Harry's locks in masses of small tight yellow curls, much given
to tangling and matting, unfit to be seen all the week, till nurse put
him to torture every Saturday, by combing them out so as, at least, to
make him for once like, she said, a gentleman, instead of a young lion.

Little Aubrey was said by his papa to be like nothing but the full moon.
And there he shone on them, by his mamma's side, announcing in language
few could understand, where he had been with papa
said his father, beginning to cut the
boiled beef as fast as if his hands had been moved by machinery
said Mrs.
May
asked Mr. Ernescliffe
said Margaret, who was next to him
said the doctor, too intent on carving to perceive
certain deprecatory glances of caution cast at him by his wife, to
remind him of the presence of man and maid
said Ethel
There was a great laugh, and an entreaty to know whether this was really
his address -- Ethel telling him she knew he had muttered it to himself
quite audibly, for which she was rewarded by a pretended box on the ear.
It certainly was vain to expect order at dinner on Saturday, for the
doctor was as bad as the boys, and Mrs. May took it with complete
composure, hardly appearing sensible of the Babel which would sometimes
almost deafen its promoter, papa; and yet her interference was
all-powerful, as now when Harry and Mary were sparring over the salt,
with one gentle
and one reproving glance, they were reduced to
quiescence.

Meanwhile Dr. May, in a voice above the tumult, was telling
as
he always called his wife, some piece of news about Mr. Rivers, who had
bought Abbotstoke Grange; and Alan Ernescliffe, in much lower tones,
saying to Margaret how he delighted in the sight of these home scenes,
and this free household mirth
said Margaret
repeated Alan
said Margaret earnestly
Margaret smiled, too much pleased to speak, and glanced at her mother's
sweet face
He
broke off, for the noise subsided, and his speech was not intended for
the public ear, so he dashed into the general conversation, and catching
his own name, exclaimed
said Norman
interposed the doctor
cried the indignant voice of Hector Ernescliffe, as his
honest Scottish face flushed like a turkey cock
said Norman.

Hector and Harry both looked furious, but "June" was too great a man in
their world for them to attempt any revenge, and it was left for Mary
to call out
said Mr.
Ernescliffe
said the doctor
said Alan
said Mrs. May
said the doctor
said Flora.

The doctor screwed up his face
he said
said Miss Winter
said Flora
said Norman
said Norman, slipping back his chair
and Norman, with a hand on the back of Ethel's
chair, took a flying leap over his own, that set all the glasses
ringing
cried his father
said Ethel
he
answered, bounding off with an elasticity that caused his mother to say
the boy was made of india-rubber; and then putting his head in by the
window to say
and he scampered headlong up the garden,
prolonging his voice into a tremendous shout as he got farther off,
leaving every one laughing, and his mother tenderly observing that he
was going to run a quarter of a mile and back, and lose his only chance
of pudding for the week -- old Bishop Whichcote's rules contemplating no
fare but daily mutton, to be bought at a shilling per sheep. A little
private discussion ensued between Harry and Hector on the merits of the
cakes at Ballhatchet's gate, and old Nelly's pies, which led the doctor
to mourn over the loss of the tarts of the cranberries, that used to
grow on Cocksmoor, before it was inhabited, and to be the delight of the
scholars of Stoneborough, when he was one of them -- and then to enchant
the boys by relations of ancient exploits, especially his friend Spencer
climbing up, and engraving a name on the top of the market cross, now no
more -- swept away by the Town Council in a fit of improvement, which had
for the last twenty years enraged the doctor at every remembrance of
it. Perhaps at this moment his wife could hardly sympathise, when she
thought of her boys emulating such deeds
said Ethel
said Flora
further added her mother
said Margaret
said the doctor
said
Ethel
said Harry
said the father
said Ethel
Nor did Ethel know that that caricature had been the cause of the black
eye that Harry had brought home last summer. Harry returned, to
protest that he would not join the walk, if she chose to be seen in
the spectacles, while she undauntedly continued her petition, though
answered that she would attract the attacks of the quarrymen, who would
take her for an attenuated owl
cried
Ethel
said the doctor quaintly, and
therewith the dinner concluded. There was apt to be a race between the
two eldest girls for the honour of bringing down the baby; but this time
their father strode up three steps at once, turned at the top of the
first flight, made his bow to them, and presently came down with his
little daughter in his arms, nodded triumphantly at the sisters, and set
her down on her mother's lap
said Flora
said Ethel
said the doctor
said Ethel, running after him
A general dispersion ensued, and only Mrs. May, Margaret, and the baby,
remained
sighed Margaret
said her mother
said Margaret
said her mother, smiling
cried Margaret, almost indignantly
said
Margaret
the tears came into her eyes
said Mrs. May
said
Margaret
said Mrs. May, rather pleased that Margaret had taken on
herself this vindication of her favourite brother her father's expense
said Margaret
said her mother
said Margaret
said the mother
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Mrs. May
said Margaret eagerly; and then, her colour deepening, as
she saw her mother looking at her, she said hastily
said Mrs. May
said Margaret, smiling
said Mrs. May, laughing
as Margaret looked
inclined to say something very eager
said Margaret suddenly
said Mrs. May
Calm as
she was, she could not finish that sentence
she whispered, more to
herself than to Margaret
Wee modest crimson-tipped flower,
     Thou'st met me in an evil hour,
     For I maun crush amang the stoure
       Thy slender stem.
     To spare thee now is past my power,
       Thou bonnie gem.
                               BURNS
exclaimed Mr. Ernescliffe, as Miss
Winter, Flora, and Norman gathered in the hall
answered Flora
said
Norman
In a moment he was at her door
Oblatus
said Norman, taking up
a paper scribbled in pencil, with Latin verses
cried Norman
If it was but English. Something like this:


        "For what is equal to the fame
         Of forgetting self in the aim?


That's not right, but
cried Flora
cried Ethel, flying into vehement activity
said Flora, tying the handkerchief
round Ethel's throat, and pulling out the fingers of her gloves, which,
of course, were inside out
said Ethel, seizing a needle, and sewing vehemently at a little
pink frock
said Norman
and, as Flora went, he continued
said Norman,
repeating some of his lines, correcting them as he proceeded
said Ethel, crumpling
her work into a bundle, and snatching up her gloves; then, as they ran
downstairs, and emerged into the street
said Ethel
said Norman
said Ethel
said Norman
said Norman, and both were silent for some short interval, as
they left the last buildings of the town, and began to mount a steep
hill. Presently Norman slackened his pace, and driving his stick
vehemently against a stone, exclaimed
replied
Ethel
Instead of answering, Norman exclaimed
he added, looking exultingly at his sister
said Norman
said Ethel
said
Norman
said Ethel
added Norman
In justice to Norman, we must observe that this was by no means said as
a boast. He would scarcely have thus spoken to any one but Etheldred, to
whom, as well as to himself, it seemed mere matter-of-fact. The others
had in the meantime halted at the top of the hill, and were looking back
at the town -- the great old Minster, raising its twin towers and long
roof, close to the river, where rich green meadows spread over the
valley, and the town rising irregularly on the slope above, plentifully
interspersed with trees and gardens, and one green space on the banks
of the river, speckled over with a flock of little black dots in rapid
motion
exclaimed Flora
cried Ethel
Her eloquence
always broke down with any auditor but her brother, or, perhaps,
Margaret
said Norman
said Alan
said
Norman
said Alan
said Norman
said Ethel
said Alan
said Ethel
said Norman.

There they were cut short. There was a plantation to be crossed, with a
gate that would not open, and that seemed an effectual barrier against
both Miss Winter and the donkey, until by persuasive eloquence and great
gallantry, Mr. Ernescliffe performed the wonderful feat of getting the
former over the tall fence, while Norman conducted the donkey a long way
round, undertaking to meet them at the other side of the plantation.

The talk became desultory, as they proceeded for at least a mile along
a cart-track through soft-tufted grass and heath and young fir-trees.
It ended in a broad open moor, stony; and full of damp boggy hollows,
forlorn and desolate under the autumn sky. Here they met Norman again,
and walked on along a very rough and dirty road, the ground growing
more decidedly into hills and valleys as they advanced, till they found
themselves before a small, but very steep hillock, one side of which was
cut away into a slate quarry. Round this stood a colony of roughly-built
huts, of mud, turf, or large blocks of the slate. Many workmen were
engaged in splitting up the slates, or loading wagons with them, rude
wild-looking men, at the sight of whom the ladies shrank up to their
protectors, but who seemed too busy even to spare time for staring at
them.

They were directed to John Taylor's house, a low mud cottage, very
wretched looking, and apparently so smoky that Mr. Ernescliffe and
Norman were glad to remain outside and survey the quarry, while the
ladies entered.

Inside they found more cleanliness and neatness than they had expected,
but there was a sad appearance of poverty, insufficient furniture, and
the cups and broken tea-pot on the table, holding nothing but toast and
water, as a substitute for their proper contents. The poor woman was
sitting by the fire with one twin on her lap, and the other on a chair
by her side, and a larger child was in the corner by the fire, looking
heavy and ill, while others of different ages lounged about listlessly.
She was not untidy, but very pale, and she spoke in a meek, subdued way,
as if the ills of life were so heavy on her that she had no spirit even
to complain. She thanked them for their gifts but languidly, and did not
visibly brighten when told that her husband was better.

Flora asked when the babes would be christened
said Flora, looking at a nice tall, smooth-haired girl of
thirteen or fourteen
said Miss Winter
No one could deny it, and the party left the cottage gravely. Alan and
Norman joined them, having heard a grievous history of the lawlessness
of the people from a foreman with whom they had met. There seemed to be
no visible means of improvement. The parish church was Stoneborough, and
there the living was very poor, the tithes having been appropriated
to the old Monastery, and since its dissolution having fallen into
possession of a Body that never did anything for the town. The
incumbent, Mr. Ramsden, had small means, and was not a high stamp of
clergyman, seldom exerting himself, and leaving most of his parish work
to the two under masters of the school, Mr. Wilmot and Mr. Harrison, who
did all they had time and strength for, and more too, within the town
itself. There was no hope for Cocksmoor
said Etheldred, as they turned their
steps homeward
said Norman
said Flora
said Norman
said Ethel
he answered, smiling. Miss Winter looked at
Etheldred reprovingly, and she shrank into herself, drew apart, and
indulged in a reverie. She had heard in books of girls writing poetry,
romance, history -- gaining fifties and hundreds. Could not some of the
myriads of fancies floating in her mind thus be made available? She
would compose, publish, earn money -- some day call papa, show him her
hoard, beg him to take it, and, never owning whence it came, raise the
building. Spire and chancel, pinnacle and buttress, rose before her
eyes, and she and Norman were standing in the porch with an orderly,
religious population, blessing the unknown benefactor, who had caused
the news of salvation to be heard among them.

They were almost at home, when the sight of a crowd in the main street
checked them. Norman and Mr. Ernescliffe went forward to discover the
cause, and spoke to some one on the outskirts -- then Mr. Ernescliffe
hurried back to the ladies
he said hastily
He was gone in an instant, and they obeyed in silence. Whence came
Ethel's certainty that the accident concerned themselves? In an agony
of apprehension, though without one outward sign of it, she walked home.
They were in the garden -- all was apparently as usual, but no one was in
sight. Ethel had been first, but she held back, and let Miss Winter go
forward into the house. The front door was open -- servants were standing
about in confusion, and one of the maids, looking dreadfully frightened,
gave a cry
exclaimed Miss Winter
cried Flora
and Ethel flew up to her
said old nurse, passionately kissing Ethel.
Harry and Mary were on the stairs behind her, clinging together.

A stranger looked into the house, followed by Adams, the stableman
some one said.

Ethel could bear it no longer. As if she could escape, she fled upstairs
into her room, and, falling on her knees, hid her face on her bed.

There were heavy steps in the house, then a sound of hasty feet coming
up to her. Norman dashed into the room, and threw himself on a chair. He
was ghastly pale, and shuddered all over
He groaned, but could not
speak; he rested his head against her, and gasped. She was terribly
frightened
and she would have gone, but he held her
He was prevented from saying more, by chattering
teeth and deadly faintness. She tried to support him, but could only
guide him as he sank, till he lay at full length on the floor, where she
put a pillow under his head, and gave him some water
said Norman, in gasps
and the tremor and fainting stopped him again
whispered Ethel; but Norman only pressed his face into the
pillow.

She was so bewildered as to be more alive to the present distress of his
condition than to the vague horrors downstairs. Some minutes passed in
silence, Norman lying still, excepting a nervous trembling that agitated
his whole frame. Again was heard the strange tread, doors opening and
shutting, and suppressed voices, and he turned his face upwards, and
listened with his hand pressed to his forehead, as if to keep himself
still enough to listen
cried Ethel, startled and recalled
to the sense of what was passing
Then springing up, with a sudden thought
said Norman, in a low hopeless tone
Again Norman's face was out of sight
Ethel's understanding perceived, but her mind refused to grasp
the extent of the calamity. There was no answer, save a convulsive
squeezing of her hand.

Fresh sounds below recalled her to speech and action
The boy lay with his face hidden, the girl sat by him on the floor, too
much crushed for even the sensations belonging to grief, neither moving
nor looking. After an interval Norman spoke again
said Ethel presently
He spoke at intervals, as he could get breath
and bear to utter the words
The shuddering came again
and his voice
sank into a faint whisper; Ethel was obliged to sprinkle him again
with water
said she, in a tone calm from its
bewilderment
exclaimed he, scolding himself, as, sitting up, he was forced to
rest his head on his shaking hand
but he was obliged to lay his head
down again; and Ethel, scarcely less trembling, crept carefully towards
the stairs, but a dread of what she might meet came over her, and she
turned towards the nursery.

The younger ones sat there in a frightened huddle. Mary was on a low
chair by the infant's cot, Blanche in her lap, Tom and Harry leaning
against her, and Aubrey almost asleep. Mary held up her finger as Ethel
entered, and whispered
The first true pang of grief shot through Ethel like a dart, stabbing
and taking away her breath
she said
said Harry
said Harry
They did not seem to know, and Ethel asked where to find Flora
she was told, and she was thinking whether she could venture
to seek her, when she herself came fast up the stairs. Ethel and
Harry both darted out
said Flora
said Harry
and then his face quivered all over,
and he turned away. Ethel ran after her sister, and pulling out drawers
without knowing what she sought, begged to hear how papa and Margaret
were
following her to the head of the stairs
It was a relief. Etheldred shrank from what she might have to behold,
and Flora hastened down, too busy and too useful to have time to think.
Harry had gone back to his refuge in the nursery, and Ethel returned to
Norman. There they remained for a long time, both unwilling to speak
or stir, or even to observe to each other on the noises that came in to
them, as their door was left ajar, though in those sounds they were so
absorbed, that they did not notice the cold of a frosty October evening,
or the darkness that closed in on them.

They heard the poor babe crying, one of the children going down to call
nurse, and nurse coming up; then Harry, at the door of the room where
the boys slept, calling Norman in a low voice. Norman, now nearly
recovered, went and brought him into his sister's room, and his tidings
were, that their father's arm had been broken in two places, and the
elbow frightfully injured, having been crushed and twisted by the wheel.
He was also a good deal bruised, and though Mr. Ward trusted there was
no positive harm to the head, he was in an unconscious state, from
which the severe pain of the operation had only roused him, so far as to
evince a few signs of suffering. Margaret was still insensible.

The piteous sound of the baby's wailing almost broke their hearts.
Norman walked about the room in the dark, and said he should go down,
he could not bear it; but he could not make up his mind to go, and after
about a quarter of an hour, to their great relief, it ceased.

Next Mary opened the door, saying
asked Harry
said
Mary
Norman paused to ask what he was to say
said Mary
said Etheldred.

Norman went slowly down, with failing knees, hardly able to conquer the
shudder that came over him, as he passed those rooms. There were
voices in the drawing-room, and he found a sort of council there, Alan
Ernescliffe, the surgeon, and Mr. Wilmot. They turned as he came in, and
Mr. Wilmot held out his hand with a look of affection and kindness that
went to his heart, making room for him on the sofa, while going on with
what he was saying
replied Mr. Ward
said Alan Ernescliffe
said Mr. Ward
Alan Ernescliffe and Norman looked at each other
asked Mr. Wilmot
said
Mr. Ward.

Poor Norman! he knew he was the one who ought to write, but his icy
trembling hand seemed to shake more helplessly than ever, and a piteous
glance fell upon Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Ward
said Mr. Wilmot
said Norman
said
Alan
and he was gone
said Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Ward
asked Mr. Wilmot
Flora at that moment half-opened the door, and called Mr. Ward, stopping
for a moment to say it was for nothing of any consequence. Mr. Wilmot
and Norman were left together. Norman put his hands over his face and
groaned -- his master looked at him with kind anxiety, but did not feel as
if it were yet time to speak of consolation
said he affectionately, as he pressed his hand
was all Norman could say; and as Mr. Wilmot went
out by the front door, he slowly went up again, and, lingering on the
landing-place, was met by Mr. Ward, who told him to his relief -- for the
mere thinking of it renewed the faint sensation -- that he had better not
go to his father's room.

There was nothing to be done but to return to Ethel and Harry, and tell
them all; with some humiliation at being helpless, where Flora was doing
so much, and to leave their father to be watched by a stranger. If he
had been wanted, Norman might have made the effort, but being told that
he would be worse than useless, there was nothing for him but to give
way.

They sat together in Ethel's room till somewhere between eight and nine
o'clock, when good old nurse, having put her younger ones to bed, came
in search of them
said she, as she found
them sitting in the dark; she felt their cold hands, and made them all
come into the nursery, where Mary was already, and, fondling them, one
by one, as they passively obeyed her, she set them down on their little
old stools round the fire, took away the high fender, and gave them each
a cup of tea. Harry and Mary ate enough to satisfy her, from a weary
craving feeling, and for want of employment; Norman sat with his elbow
on his knee, and a very aching head resting on his hand, glad of drink,
but unable to eat; Ethel could be persuaded to do neither, till she
found old nurse would let her have no peace.

The nurse sent them all to bed, taking the two girls to their own room,
undressing them, and never leaving them until Mary was in a fair way of
crying herself to sleep -- for saying her prayers had brought the tears;
while Ethel lay so wide awake that it was of no use to wait for her, and
then she went to the boys, tucked them each in, as when they were little
children, and saying
bestowed on each of them
a kiss which came gratefully to Norman's burning brow, and which even
Harry's boyish manliness could not resist.

Flora was in Margaret's room, too useful to be spared.

So ended that dreadful Saturday
They may not mar the deep repose
       Of that immortal flower:
     Though only broken hearts are found
       To watch her cradle by,
     No blight is on her slumbers found,
       No touch of harmful eye.
                                    LYRA INNOCENTIUM.


Such a strange sad Sunday! No going to church, but all the poor children
moving in awe and oppression about the house, speaking under their
breath, as they gathered in the drawing-room. Into the study they might
not go, and when Blanche would have asked why, Tom pressed her hand and
shuddered.

Etheldred was allowed to come and look at Margaret, and even to sit in
the room for a little while, to take the place of Miss Winter; but she
was not sensible of sufficient usefulness to relieve the burden of fear
and bewilderment in the presence of that still, pale form; and, what was
almost worse, the sight of the familiar objects, the chair by the fire,
the sofa, the books, the work-basket, the letter-case, the dressing
things, all these were too oppressive. She sat crouched up, with her
face hidden in her hands, and the instant she was released, hastened
back to Norman. She was to tell him that he might go into the room, but
he did not move, and Mary alone went in and out with messages.

Dr. May was not to be visited, for he was in the same half-conscious
state, apparently sensible only of bodily suffering, though he answered
when addressed, and no one was trusted to speak to him but Flora and
Ernescliffe.

The rest wore through the day as best they might. Harry slept a good
deal, Ethel read to herself, and tried to get Norman to look at passages
which she liked, Mary kept the little ones from being troublesome, and
at last took them to peep behind the school-room blinds for Richard's
coming.

There was a simultaneous shout when, at four o'clock, they caught sight
of him, and though, at Ethel's exclamation of wonder, Mary and Tom hung
their heads at having forgotten themselves, the association of gladness
in seeing Richard was refreshing; the sense of being desolate and
forsaken was relieved, and they knew that now they had one to rely on
and to comfort them.

Harry hastened to open the front door, and Richard, with his small
trim figure, and fresh, fair young face, flushed, though not otherwise
agitated, was among them, almost devoured by the younger ones, and
dealing out quiet caresses to them, as he caught from the words and
looks of the others that at least his father and sister were no worse.
Mr. Wilmot had come with him, but only stayed to hear the tidings
were Richard's first audible words -- all the rest had
been almost dumb show.

Ethel thought not, but took him to Margaret's room, where he stood for
many minutes without speaking; then whispered to Flora that he must go
to the others, she should call him if -- and went down, followed by Ethel.

Tom and Blanche had fallen into teasing tricks, a sort of melancholy
play to relieve the tedium. They grew cross. Norman was roused to
reprove sharply, and Blanche was beginning to cry. But Richard's
entrance set all at peace -- he sat down among them, and, with soft voice
and arm round Blanche, as she leaned against him, made her good in a
moment; and she listened while he talked over with Norman and Ethel all
they could bear to speak of.

Late in the day Flora came into her father's room, and stood gazing
at him, as he lay with eyes closed, breathing heavily, and his brows
contracted by pain. She watched him with piteous looks, as if imploring
him to return to his children. Poor girl, to-day's quiet, after the last
evening's bustle, was hard to bear. She had then been distracted from
thought by the necessity of exertion, but it now repaid itself, and she
knew not how to submit to do nothing but wait and watch
enquired Alan Ernescliffe; looking kindly in her face
replied she in a low, mournful tone
A voice which she did not expect, asked inquiringly
and her
heart beat as if it would take away her breath, as she saw her father's
eyes intently fixed on her
he repeated
said Flora, not losing presence of mind, though in
extreme fear of what the next question might be
he said, and his whole voice and air showed him to be
entirely roused
He continued his inquiries till Flora was obliged fully to explain her
sister's condition, and then he dismayed her by saying he would get up
and go to see her. Much distressed, she begged him not to think of it,
and appealed to Alan, who added his entreaties that he would at least
wait for Mr. Ward; but the doctor would not relinquish his purpose, and
sent her to give notice that he was coming.

Mr. Ernescliffe followed her out of the room, and tried to console her,
as she looked at him in despair
he said
said Flora, coming nearer, and almost gasping as she
whispered and signed towards the door
said Alan
Flora went to prepare. Ethel eagerly undertook to send to Mr. Ward, and
hastened from the room, as if in a sort of terror, shrinking perhaps
from what might lead to an outburst of grief. She longed to have seen
her father, but was frightened at the chance of meeting him. When she
had sent her message, and told her brothers what was passing, she went
and lingered on the stairs and in the passage for tidings. After what
seemed a long time, Flora came out, and hastened to the nursery, giving
her intelligence on the way
said Ethel
Nurse promised, but the tears came so fast, and sobs with them, as
she approached her master's room, that Flora saw no composure could
be expected from her; and taking the infant from her, carried it in,
leaving the door open for her to follow when wanted. Ethel stood by
listening. There was silence at first, then some sounds from the baby,
and her father's voice soothing it, in his wonted caressing phrases and
tones, so familiar that they seemed to break the spell, drive away her
vague terrors, and restore her father. Her heart bounded, and a sudden
impulse carried her to the bedside, at once forgetting all dread of
seeing him, and chance of doing him harm. He lay, holding the babe close
to him, and his face was not altered, so that there was nothing in the
sight to impress her with the need of caution, and, to the consternation
of the anxious Flora, she exclaimed, abruptly and vehemently
Dr. May looked up at Ethel, then at the infant
he said
Then added feebly and languidly
There was a pause, while Flora looked reproachfully at her sister, and
Ethel became conscious of her imprudence, but in a few moments Dr. May
spoke again, first to the baby, and then asking
Ethel retreated, much alarmed at her rash measure, and when she related
it she saw that Richard and Mr. Ernescliffe both thought it had been a
great hazard
was a welcome sound to the ears of Richard, and
brought a pink glow into his face. He was never one who readily showed
his feelings, and there was no danger of his failing in self-command,
though grievously downcast, not only at the loss of the tender mother,
who had always stood between him and his father's impatience, but by
the dread that he was too dull and insignificant to afford any help or
comfort in his father's dire affliction.

Yet there was something in the gentle sad look that met him, and in the
low tone of the
that drove off a thought of not
being loved; and when Dr. May further added
he knew he was of use, and was encouraged and
cheered. That his father had full confidence and reliance in him, and
that his presence was a satisfaction and relief he could no longer
doubt; and this was a drop of balm beyond all his hopes; for loving
and admiring his father intensely, and with depressed spirits and a low
estimate of himself, he had begun to fancy himself incapable of being
anything but a vexation and burden.

He sat with his father nearly all the evening, and was to remain with
him at night. The rest were comforted by the assurance that Dr. May was
still calm, and did not seem to have been injured by what had passed.
Indeed, it seemed as if the violence and suddenness of the shock,
together with his state of suffering, had deadened his sensations; for
there was far less agitation about him than could have been thought
possible in a man of such strong, warm affections and sensitive
temperament.

Ethel and Norman went up arm-in-arm at bedtime
said Ethel
Norman hesitated, but his cheeks blanched; he shuddered, shook his head
without speaking, ran up after Harry, and waved her back when she would
have followed.

Richard told her that she might come in, and, as she slowly advanced,
she thought she had never seen anything so ineffably mournful as
the affectionate look on her father's face. She held his hand and
ventured -- for it was with difficulty she spoke -- to hope he was not in
pain
he said, in a soft weak tone:
then, as she bent down to kiss his brow
she could hardly answer, and a large drop gathered slowly
in each eye, long in coming, as if the heart ached too much for them to
flow freely
He held her hand, as if lengthening the interview
A long deep sigh. Ethel's two tears stood on her cheeks
Ethel went upstairs, saddened and yet soothed. The calm silent sorrow,
too deep for outward tokens, was so unlike her father's usually
demonstrative habits, as to impress her all the more, yet those two
tears were followed by no more; there was much strangeness and confusion
in her mind in the newness of grief.

She found poor Flora, spent with exertion, under the reaction of all she
had undergone, lying on her bed, sobbing as if her heart would break,
calling in gasps of irrepressible agony on
yet with
her face pressed down on the pillow that she might not be heard. Ethel,
terrified and distressed, timidly implored her to be comforted, but it
seemed as if she were not even heard; she would have fetched some one,
but whom? Alas! alas! it brought back the sense that no mother would
ever soothe them -- Margaret, papa, both so ill, nurse engaged with
Margaret! Ethel stood helpless and despairing, and Flora sobbed on, so
that Mary awakened to burst out in a loud frightened fit of crying; but
in a few moments a step was at the door, a knock, and Richard asked
He was in the room in a moment, caressing and saying affectionate things
with gentleness and fondling care, like his mother, and which recalled
the days when he had been proud to be left for a little while the small
nurse and guardian of the lesser ones. Mary was hushed in a moment, and
Flora's exhausted weeping was gradually soothed, when she was able
to recollect that she was keeping him from her father; with kind
good-nights, he left Ethel to read to her till she could sleep. Long did
Ethel read, after both her sisters were slumbering soundly; she went on
in a sort of dreamy grief, almost devoid of pain, as if all this was too
terrible to be true: and she had imagined herself into a story, which
would give place at dawn to her ordinary life.

At last she went to bed, and slept till wakened by the return of Flora,
who had crept down in her dressing-gown to see how matters were going.
Margaret was in the same state, papa was asleep, after a restless
distressing night, with much pain and some fever; and whenever Richard
had begun to hope from his tranquillity, that he was falling asleep,
he was undeceived by hearing an almost unconsciously uttered sigh of
and then the head turned wearily on the pillow,
as if worn out with the misery from which there was no escape. Towards
morning the pain had lessened, and, as he slept, he seemed much less
feverish than they could have ventured to expect.

Norman looked wan and wretched, and could taste no breakfast; indeed
Harry reported that he had been starting and talking in his sleep half
the night, and had proceeded to groaning and crying out till, when it
could be borne no longer, Harry waked him, and finished his night's rest
in peace.

The children were kept in the drawing-room that morning, and there were
strange steps in the house; but only Richard and Mr. Ernescliffe knew
the reason. Happily there had been witnesses enough of the overturn to
spare any reference to Dr. May -- the violent start of the horses had been
seen, and Adams and Mr. Ernescliffe agreed, under their breath, that the
new black one was not fit to drive, while the whole town was so used to
Dr. May's headlong driving, that every one was recollecting their
own predictions of accidents. There needed little to account for the
disaster -- the only wonder was that it had not happened sooner
announced Harry, soon after they were released again
Norman started up, and walked hastily out of the room, but his hand
shook so, that he could hardly open the door; and Ethel, seeing how it
was with him, followed him quickly, as he dashed, at full speed, up the
stairs. At the top, however, he was forced to cling to the rail, gasping
for breath, while the moisture started on his forehead
she said
But he rested
his head on his hand, and looked as if he could not stir
said Ethel
said Norman, stepping hastily forwards,
and opening the door suddenly. He got through the greeting pretty well,
there was no need for him to speak, he only gave his hand and looked
away, unable to bring himself to turn his eyes on his father, and afraid
of letting his own face be seen. Almost at the same moment, nurse
came to say something about Margaret, and he seized the opportunity of
withdrawing his hand, and hurrying away, in good time, for he was pale
as death, and was obliged to sit down on the head of the stairs, and
lean his head against Etheldred
he exclaimed faintly, but very
indignantly.

The first cure was the being forced to clear out of Mr. Ward's way,
which he could not effect without being seen; and Ethel though she knew
that he would be annoyed, was not sorry to be obliged to remain, and
tell what was the matter with him
said Mr. Ward, turning and
proceeding to the dining-room
And armed with the cordial he had prepared, Ethel hunted up her brother,
and persuaded him, after scolding her a little, to swallow it, and take
a turn in the garden; after which he made a more successful attempt at
visiting his father.

There was another room whither both Norman and Etheldred wished to go,
though they dared not hint at their desire. At last Richard came
to them, as they were wandering in the garden, and, with his usual
stillness of manner, shaded with additional seriousness, said
Etheldred put one hand into his, Norman took the other, and soon
they stood in that calm presence. Fair, cold, white, and intensely
still -- that face brought home to them the full certainty that the warm
brightening look would never beam on them, the soft blue eyes never
guide, check, and watch them, the smile never approve or welcome them.
To see her unconscious of their presence was too strange and sad,
and all were silent, till, as they left the room, Ethel looked out at
Blanche and Aubrey in the garden
Richard would fain have moralised and comforted, but she felt as if she
knew it all before, and heard with languid attention. She had rather
read than talk, and he sat down to write letters.

There were no near relations to be sent for. Dr. May was an only son,
and his wife's sister, Mrs. Arnott, was in New Zealand; her brother
had long been dead, and his widow, who lived in Edinburgh, was scarcely
known to the May family. Of friends there were many, fast bound by
affection and gratitude, and notes, inquiries, condolences, and offers
of service came in thickly, and gave much occupation to Flora, Richard,
and Alan Ernescliffe, in turn. No one from without could do anything for
them -- they had all the help they wanted in Miss Winter and in Alan, who
was invaluable in sharing with Richard the care of the doctor, as well
as in giving him the benefit of his few additional years' experience,
and relieving him of some of his tasks. He was indeed like one of
themselves, and a most valuable help and comforter. Mr. Wilmot gave them
all the time he could, and on this day saw the doctor, who seemed to
find some solace in his visit, though saying very little.

On this day the baby was to be baptized. The usual Stoneborough fashion
was to collect all the christenings for the month into one Sunday,
except those for such persons as thought themselves too refined to see
their children christened before the congregation, and who preferred
an empty church and a week-day. The little one had waited till she was
nearly six weeks old for
and since that had been
missed, she could not be kept unbaptized for another month; so, late in
the day, she was carried to church.

Richard had extremely gratified old nurse, by asking her to represent
poor Margaret; Mrs. Hoxton stood for the other godmother, and Alan
Ernescliffe was desired to consider himself absolutely her sponsor, not
merely a proxy. The younger children alone were to go with them: it
was too far off, and the way lay too much through the town for it to
be thought proper for the others to go. Ethel wished it very much, and
thought it nonsense to care whether people looked at her; and in spite
of Miss Winter's seeming shocked at her proposing it, had a great mind
to persist. She would even have appealed to her papa, if Flora had
not stopped her, exclaiming
Much abashed, Ethel humbly promised that if she might go into papa's
room, she would not say one word about the christening, unless he should
begin, and, to her great satisfaction, he presently asked her to read
the service to him. Flora came to the doorway of Margaret's room, and
listened; when she had finished, all were silent
was the thought with each of the girls. The answers were, in
one mind
In the other
They heard the return of the others, and the sisters both sprang up
said Flora
The sisters all came down together with the little one, and Flora put
her down within the arm her father stretched out for her. He gazed into
the baby face, which, in its expressionless placidity, almost recalled
her mother's tranquil sweetness
said Flora, and with a look that had more of
tenderness than grief, he murmured
said Ethel, when Flora took her again
He looked as if he wished it; but said
and sighed heavily; then, as they stood round his bed,
unwilling to go, he added
Flora pressed the babe in her arms, Ethel's two reluctant tears stood
on her cheeks, Mary exclaimed
and Blanche
climbed up to kiss him, saying
whispered Ethel, gaining sole
possession of the babe for a minute
LYRA INNOCENTIUM.


Dr. May took the management of himself into his own hands, and paid
so little attention to Mr. Ward's recommendations that his sons and
daughters were in continual dread of his choosing to do something that
might cause injurious agitation.

However, he did not go further than Margaret's bedroom where he sat
hour after hour his eyes fixed upon her, as she continued in a state
bordering on insensibility. He took little notice of anything else,
and hardly spoke. There were heavy sighs now and then, but Richard and
Flora, one or other of whom were always watching him, could hardly tell
whether to ascribe them to the oppression of sorrow or of suffering.
Their great fear was of his insisting on seeing his wife's face, and it
was a great relief that he never alluded to her, except once, to desire
Richard to bring him her ring. Richard silently obeyed, and, without a
word, he placed it on his little finger. Richard used to read the Psalms
to him in the morning, before he was up, and Flora would bring little
Daisy and lay her by his side.

To the last moment they dreaded his choosing to attend the funeral, and
Flora had decided on remaining at home, though trembling at the thought
of what there might be to go through. They tried to let him hear nothing
about it, but he seemed to know everything; and when Flora came into
Margaret's room without her bonnet, he raised his head, and said
They decided that his wishes ought to be followed, and that the patients
must be entrusted to old nurse. Richard told Flora, who looked very
pale, that she would be glad of it afterwards, and she had his arm to
lean upon.

The grave was in the cloister attached to the minster, a smooth green
square of turf, marked here and there with small flat lozenges of stone,
bearing the date and initials of those who lay there, and many of them
recording former generations of Mays, to whom their descent from the
headmaster had given a right of burial there. Dr. Hoxton, Mr. Wilmot,
and the surgeon, were the only friends whom Richard had asked to be
with them, but the minster was nearly full, for there was a very
strong attachment and respect for Dr. and Mrs. May throughout the
neighbourhood, and every one's feelings were strongly excited
There was a universal sound
as of a sort of sob, that Etheldred never disconnected from those words.
Yet hardly one tear was shed by the young things who stood as close as
they could round the grave. Harry and Mary did indeed lock their hands
together tightly, and the shoulders of the former shook as he stood,
bowing down his head, but the others were still and quiet, in part from
awe and bewilderment, but partly, too, from a sense that it was against
her whole nature that there should be clamorous mourning for her. The
calm still day seemed to tell them the same, the sun beaming softly on
the gray arches and fresh grass, the sky clear and blue, and the trees
that showed over the walls bright with autumn colouring, all suitable to
the serenity of a life unclouded to its last moment. Some of them felt
as if it were better to be there than in their saddened desolate home.

But home they must go, and, before going upstairs, as Flora and
Etheldred stood a moment or two with Norman, Ethel said in a tone of
resolution, and of some cheerfulness
said Flora
said Ethel
and Flora went upstairs
said Ethel; but I mean to try,
and if I can but keep out of mischief, it will be something
said Norman, listlessly
said Norman.

Ethel hesitated a little, and presently answered
said Norman, in the same dejected way
Norman only shook his head
said Norman
As Norman
could not just then say that he did, he would not answer
said Ethel, disappointed, but cheering up the next minute
She almost began to fancy herself unfeeling, when she found him so much
more depressed than she was herself, and unable to feel it a relief to
know that the time of rest and want of occupation was over. She thought
it light-minded, though she could not help it, to look forward to
the daily studies where she might lose her sad thoughts and be as if
everything were as usual. But suppose she should be to blame, where
would now be the gentle discipline? Poor Ethel's feelings were not such
as to deserve the imputation of levity, when this thought came over
her; but her buoyant mind, always seeking for consolation, recurred to
Margaret's improvement, and she fixed her hopes on her.

Margaret was more alive to surrounding objects, and, when roused, she
knew them all, answered clearly when addressed, had even, more than
once, spoken of her own accord, and shown solicitude at the sight of her
father's bandaged, helpless arm, but he soon soothed this away. He was
more than ever watchful over her, and could scarcely be persuaded to
leave her for one moment, in his anxiety to be at hand to answer, when
first she should speak of her mother, a moment apprehended by all the
rest, almost as much for his sake as for hers.

So clear had her perceptions been, and so much more awake did she
appear, on this evening, that he expected the inquiry to come every
moment, and lingered in her room; till she asked the hour, and begged
him to go to bed.

As he bent over her, she looked up in his face, and said softly
There was that in her tone which showed she perceived the truth, and he
knelt by her side kissing her, but not daring to relax his restraint of
feeling
she said again
he murmured, all he could say without
giving way
When Dr. May had left her, and tried to tell Richard how it had been,
the tears cut him short, and had their free course; but there was much
of thankfulness, for it might be looked on as the restoration of his
daughter; the worst was over, and the next day he was able to think of
other things, had more attention to spare for the rest, and when the
surgeon came, took some professional interest in the condition of his
own arm, inquired after his patients, and even talked of visiting them.

In the meantime, Margaret sent for her eldest brother, begging him to
tell her the whole, and it was heard as calmly and firmly as it was
told. Her bodily state lulled her mind; and besides it was not new; she
had observed much while her faculties were still too much benumbed for
her to understand all, or to express her feelings. Her thoughts seemed
chiefly occupied with her father. She made Richard explain to her
the injury he had suffered, and begged to know whether his constant
attendance on her could do him harm. She was much rejoiced when her
brother assured her that nothing could be better for him, and she
began to say, with a smile, that very likely her being hurt had been
fortunate. She asked who had taken care of him before Richard's arrival,
and was pleased to hear that it was Mr. Ernescliffe. A visit from the
little Gertrude Margaret was happily accomplished, and, on the whole,
the day was most satisfactory -- she herself declaring that she could not
see that there was anything the matter with her, except that she felt
lazy, and did not seem able to move.

Thus the next Sunday morning dawned with more cheerfulness. Dr. May came
downstairs for the first time, in order to go to church with his whole
flock, except the two Margarets. He looked very wan and shattered, but
they clustered gladly round him, when he once more stood among them,
little Blanche securing his hand, and nodding triumphantly to Mr.
Ernescliffe, as much as to say
Norman alone was missing; but he was in his place at church among the
boys. Again, in returning, he slipped out of the party, and was at
home the first, and when this recurred in the afternoon Ethel began
to understand his motive. The High Street led past the spot where the
accident had taken place, though neither she nor any of the others knew
exactly where it was, except Norman, on whose mind the scene was branded
indelibly; she guessed that it was to avoid it that he went along what
was called Randall's Alley, his usual short cut to school.

The Sunday brought back to the children that there was no one to hear
their hymns; but Richard was a great comfort, watching over the little
ones more like a sister than a brother. Ethel was ashamed of herself
when she saw him taking thought for them, tying Blanche's bonnet,
putting Aubrey's gloves on, teaching them to put away their Sunday toys,
as if he meant them to be as neat and precise as himself.

Dr. May did not encounter the family dinner, nor attempt a second going
to church; but Blanche was very glorious as she led him down to drink
tea, and, before going up again, he had a conversation with Alan
Ernescliffe, who felt himself obliged to leave Stoneborough early on the
morrow
said he
said the doctor
and his voice quivered
said Alan, hiding much under these commonplace words
said Dr. May
Both were too much overcome for words, but the doctor was the first to
continue, as he took off his dimmed spectacles. He seemed to wish to
excuse himself for giving way; saying, with a look that would fain have
been a smile
Alan tried to say somewhat of
and
broke down, but it did as well as if it had been connected
said the doctor
but
the doctor looked anxious and spoke low as he said
said Alan, excessively shocked
said Dr May more and more touched at the sight of
the young sailor struggling in vain to restrain his emotion
Alan attempted to say, but began again
then interrupting himself
said Dr May, and as Alan hastily left the room, he
continued, half aloud, to himself
but the sigh of anguish of mind
here showed that the wound had but been forgotten for one moment
Mr Ernescliffe set out before sunrise. The boys were up to wish him
good-bye, and so were Etheldred and Mary, and some one else, for while
the shaking of hands was going on in the hall there was a call
and over the balusters peeped a little rough curly head, a
face glowing with carnation deepened by sleep, and a round, plump, bare
arm and shoulder, and down at Alan's feet there fell a construction of
white and pink paper, while a voice lisped out
An indignant
was heard behind and there was no certainty
that any thanks reached the poor little heroine, who was evidently borne
off summarily to the nursery, while Ethel gave way to a paroxysm of
suppressed laughter, joined in, more or less, by all the rest, and thus
Alan, promising faithfully to preserve the precious token, left Dr May's
door, not in so much outward sorrow as he had expected.

Even their father laughed at the romance of the white
and
declared Blanche was a dangerous young lady; but the story was less
successful with Miss Winter, who gravely said it was no wonder since
Blanche's elder sister had been setting her the example of forwardness
in coming down in this way after Mr. Ernescliffe. Ethel was very angry,
and was only prevented from vindicating herself by remembering there
was no peacemaker now, and that she had resolved only to think of Miss
Winter's late kindness, and bear with her tiresome ways.

Etheldred thought herself too sorrowful to be liable to her usual faults
which would seem so much worse now; but she found herself more irritable
than usual, and doubly heedless, because her mind was preoccupied. She
hated herself, and suffered more from sorrow than even at the first
moment, for now she felt what it was to have no one to tame her, no eye
over her; she found herself going a tort et a travers all the morning,
and with no one to set her right. Since it was so the first day, what
would follow?

Mary was on the contrary so far subdued, as to be exemplary in goodness
and diligence, and Blanche was always steady. Flora was too busy to
think of the school-room, for the whole house was on her hands, besides
the charge of Margaret, while Dr. May went to the hospital, and
to sundry patients, and they thought he seemed the better for the
occupation, as well as gratified and affected by the sympathy he
everywhere met with from high and low.

The boys were at school, unseen except when at the dinner play-hour
Norman ran home to ask after his father and sister; but the most trying
time was at eight in the evening, when they came home. That was wont to
be the merriest part of the whole day, the whole family collected,
papa at leisure and ready for talk or for play, mamma smiling over her
work-basket, the sisters full of chatter, the brothers full of fun, all
the tidings of the day discussed, and nothing unwelcome but bedtime. How
different now! The doctor was with Margaret, and though Richard tried to
say something cheerful as his brothers entered, there was no response,
and they sat down on the opposite sides of the fire, forlorn and silent,
till Richard, who was printing some letters on card-board to supply the
gaps in Aubrey's ivory Alphabet, called Harry to help him; but Ethel,
as she sat at work, could only look at Norman, and wish she could devise
anything likely to gratify him.

After a time Flora came down, and laying some sheets of closely written
note-paper before her sister, said
Flora took up her work, and began to consult with Richard, while Ethel
moved to Norman's side, and kneeling so as to lean against his shoulder,
as he sat on a low cushion, they read their mother's last letter by
the fire-light, with indescribable feelings, as they went through the
subjects that had lately occupied them, related by her who would never
be among them again. After much of this kind, for her letters to Mrs.
Arnott were almost journals, came
mournfully sighed Ethel; but her brother pointed on further
said Norman
There the letter broke off, the playful affection of the last words
making it almost more painful to think that the fond hand would never
finish the sentence
A drooping daisy changed into a cup,
     In which her bright-eyed beauty is shut up.
                                          WORDSWORTH
said Ethel, coming into the room where Margaret lay on her bed,
half-raised by pillows, supported by a wooden frame
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel, peering closer
said Margaret
said Flora
said Ethel, gravely
said Margaret
cried Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Margaret laughing
she added, drawing her down close
over her
said Margaret presently to
Flora
said Flora
said Flora
said Ethel, there stopping
said both sisters
said Flora
said Margaret
The girls went on, and Margaret began to like the idea very much, and
consider whether the girl could be brought for inspection, before nurse
was prejudiced by hearing of her Cocksmoor extraction. At that moment
Richard knocked at the door, and entered with Tom, helping him to bring
a small short-legged table, such as could stand on the bed at the right
height for Margaret's meals or employments.

There were great exclamations of satisfaction, and gratitude
said he
said Flora
said Ethel
said Richard
said Flora
said Margaret
exclaimed Ethel
So it was determined that Richard and Ethel should walk together to
Cocksmoor.

No two people could be much more unlike than Richard and Etheldred May;
but they were very fond of each other. Richard was sometimes seriously
annoyed by Ethel's heedlessness, and did not always understand her
sublimities, but he had a great deal of admiration for one who partook
so much of his father's nature; and Ethel had a due respect for her
eldest brother, gratitude and strong affection for many kindnesses,
a reverence for his sterling goodness, and his exemption from her own
besetting failings, only a little damped by compassionate wonder at
his deficiency in talent, and by her vexation at not being always
comprehended.

They went by the road, for the plantation gate was far too serious an
undertaking for any one not in the highest spirits for enterprise. On
the way there was a good deal of that desultory talk, very sociable and
interesting, that is apt to prevail between two people, who would never
have chosen each other for companions, if they were not of the same
family, but who are nevertheless very affectionate and companionable.
Ethel was anxious to hear what her brother thought of papa's spirits,
and whether he talked in their drives
said Richard
said Ethel
said
Richard
Ethel stopped short
said Richard
It was just what Richard could not do, and he made some observation to
change the subject, but Ethel returned to it, so far as to beg to know
how the arm was going on, for she did not like to say anything about it
to papa
said Richard
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Richard gravely
said Ethel.

Richard shook his head, not quite satisfied, but not sure enough that he
entered into her meaning to question it
was the result of his meditation,
and it made her laugh by being so inapposite to her own reflections: but
the laugh ended in a melancholy look
she said, in a low voice.

Thus they talked till they arrived at Cocksmoor, where poor Mrs. Taylor,
inspirited by better reports of her husband and the hopes for her
daughter, was like another woman. Richard was very careful not to raise
false expectations, saying it all depended on Miss May and nurse, and
what they thought of her strength and steadiness, but these cautions
did not seem capable of damping the hopes of the smooth-haired Lucy,
who stood smiling and curtseying. The twins were grown and improved, and
Ethel supposed they would be brought to church on the next christening
Sunday, but their mother looked helpless and hopeless about getting
them so far, and how was she to get gossips? Ethel began to grow very
indignant, but she was always shy of finding fault with poor people
to their faces when she would not have done so to persons in her own
station, and so she was silent, while Richard hoped they would be able
to manage, and said it would be better not to wait another month for
still worse weather and shorter days.

As they were coming out of the house, a big, rough-looking, uncivilised
boy came up before them, and called out
said Richard; while Ethel, startled, clung to his
arm, in dread of some rudeness
said the boy; proceeding without further explanation to
lead the way to another hovel, though Richard tried to explain that the
knowledge of medicine was not in his case hereditary. A poor old woman
sat groaning over the fire, and two children crouched, half-clothed, on
the bare floor.

Richard's gentle voice and kind manner drew forth some wonderful
descriptions
said Richard kindly
said Richard, looking round the desolate
hut
Sam scratched his head, and answered nothing. His grandmother knew he
was the age of her black bonnet, and as he looked about fifteen, Ethel
honoured him and the bonnet accordingly, while Richard said he must be
very glad to be able to maintain them all, at his age, and, promising to
try to bring his father that way, since prescribing at second hand
for such curious symptoms was more than could be expected, he took his
leave
said Richard, looking round
said Ethel; and all her thoughts during her last walk
thither began to rush over her again, not effaced, but rather burned in,
by all that had subsequently happened. She had said it should be her aim
and effort to make Cocksmoor a Christian place. Such a resolve must not
pass away lightly; she knew it must be acted on, but how? What would her
present means -- one sovereign -- effect? Her fancies, rich and rare,
had nearly been forgotten of late, but she might make them of use in
time -- in time, and here were hives of children growing up in heathenism.
Suddenly an idea struck her -- Richard, when at home, was a very diligent
teacher in the Sunday-school at Stoneborough, though it was a thankless
task, and he was the only gentleman so engaged, except the two
clergymen -- the other male teachers being a formal, grave, little baker,
and one or two monitors
said Ethel
He was so confounded by the suddenness of the project, that he did not
answer, till she had time for several exclamations and
he said
said Ethel
said Ethel
exclaimed Ethel; then seeing Richard shocked, and finding
she had spoken more vehemently than she intended
Ethel was slightly taken aback, but only said
said Richard
said Ethel
A silence,-- then she exclaimed
The rendering of full justice conveyed in his tone so opened Ethel's
heart that she went on eagerly
was the answer, and there was a fragment of a smile
on Richard's face, as if it struck him as a wild scheme, that Ethel
should undertake, single handed, to evangelise Cocksmoor.

It was such a damper as to be most mortifying to an enthusiastic girl,
and she drew into herself in a moment.

They walked home in silence, and when Richard warned her that she was
not keeping her dress out of the dirt, it sounded like a sarcasm on
her projects, and, with a slightly pettish manner, she raised the
unfortunate skirt, its crape trimmings greatly bespattered with ruddy
mud. Then recollecting how mamma would have shaken her head at that very
thing, she regretted the temper she had betrayed, and in a larmoyante
voice, sighed
said Richard
said Ethel, disconsolately, crumpling the
black folds into one hand, while she hunted for a pin with the other
said Richard
Ethel laughed
They met Dr. May at the entrance of the town, very tired, and saying
he had been a long tramp, all over the place, and Mrs. Hoxton had been
boring him with her fancies. As he took Richard's arm he gave the long
heavy sigh that always fell so painfully on Ethel's ear
thought she
Her reflections were broken off. Dr. May exclaimed
Poor Ethel stepped on before with mud-encrusted heels, and her father
speaking sharply in the weariness and soreness of his heart; her
draggle-tailed petticoats weighing down at once her missionary projects
at Cocksmoor, and her tender visions of comforting her widowed father;
her heart was full to overflowing, and where was the mother to hear her
troubles?

She opened the hall door, and would have rushed upstairs, but nurse
happened to be crossing the hall
Ethel sat submissively down on the lowest step, and pulled off her
boots. As she did so, her father and brother came in -- the former
desiring Richard to come with him to the study, and write a note for
him. She hoped that thus she might have Margaret to herself, and hurried
into her room. Margaret was alone, maids and children at tea, and Flora
dressing. The room was in twilight, with the red gleam of the fire
playing cheerfully over it
and throwing herself across the bottom of the
bed, she burst into tears
said Ethel
added she, in an injured tone
said Margaret
said Ethel, smiling for a moment
said Ethel, proceeding to unfold it
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
Ethel proceeded to tell the history
said Margaret cheerfully
said Ethel
said Ethel wistfully
Mary was happy to help, and Ethel was dressed and cheered by the time
Dr. May came in, for a hurried visit and report of his doings; Flora
followed on her way from her room. Then all went to tea, leaving
Margaret to have a visit from the little ones under charge of nurse. Two
hours' stay with her, that precious time when she knew that sad as the
talk often was, it was truly a comfort to him. It ended when ten o'clock
struck, and he went down -- Margaret hearing the bell, the sounds of
the assembling servants, the shutting of the door, the stillness
of prayer-time, the opening again, the feet moving off in different
directions, then brothers and sisters coming in to kiss her and bid her
good-night, nurse and Flora arranging her for the night, Flora coming
to sleep in her little bed in the corner of the room, and, lastly, her
father's tender good-night, and melancholy look at her, and all was
quiet, except the low voices and movements as Richard attended him in
his own room.

Margaret could think
Something between a hindrance and a help.
                                    WORDSWORTH.


Etheldred awoke long before time for getting up, and lay pondering over
her visions. Margaret had sympathised, and therefore they did not seem
entirely aerial. To earn money by writing was her favourite plan, and
she called her various romances in turn before her memory, to judge
which might be brought down to sober pen and ink. She considered till it
became not too unreasonably early to get up. It was dark, but there was
a little light close to the window: she had no writing-paper, but she
would interline her old exercise-book. Down she ran, and crouching
in the school-room window-seat, she wrote on in a trance of eager
composition, till Norman called her, as he went to school, to help him
to find a book.

This done, she went up to visit Margaret, to tell her the story, and
consult her. But this was not so easy. She found Margaret with little
Daisy lying by her, and Tom sitting by the fire over his Latin
said Ethel, as the child was fretting a little
said Margaret
said Ethel, as she walked about with
little Gertrude; but Tom interrupted
and the thumbed Latin
grammar came across her just as Dr. May's door opened, and he came in
exclaiming
said Margaret
he stopped, and felt Margaret's
pulse, asked her a few questions, and talked to the baby. Ethel longed
to hear his dream, but thought he would not like to go on; however, he
did presently
said Ethel
said Margaret
said the doctor, looking drolly
guilty in the midst of his sadness
and he pressed Margaret's hand as he
said so
And he walked away, muttering
leaving Margaret with her eyes full of tears, and
Ethel vehemently caressing the baby
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel with a slight tremulous voice
Margaret smiled
said Ethel earnestly
said Margaret
An interruption occurred, and Ethel had to go down to breakfast with a
mind floating between romance, sorrow, and high aspirations, very unlike
the actual world she had to live in. First, there was a sick man walking
into the study, and her father, laying down his letters, saying
said Flora, as he went
Richard went on in silence, cutting bread and butter
said Mary
The morning was tiresome; though Dr. May had two regular days for seeing
poor people at his house, he was too good-natured to keep strictly to
them, and this day, as Flora had predicted, there was a procession of
them not soon got rid of, even by his rapid queries and the talismanic
figures made by his left hand on scraps of paper, with which he sent
them off to the infirmary. Ethel tried to read; the children lingered
about; it was a trial of temper to all but Tom, who obtained Richard's
attention to his lessons. He liked to say them to his brother, and was
an incentive to learn them quickly, that none might remain for Miss
Winter when Richard went out with his father. If mamma had been there,
she would have had prayers; but now no one had authority enough, though
they did at last even finish breakfast. Just as the gig came to the
door, Dr. May dismissed his last patient, rang the bell in haste, and
as soon as prayers were over, declared he had an appointment, and had no
time to eat. There was a general outcry that it was bad enough when he
was well, and now he must not take liberties; Flora made him drink some
tea; and Richard placed morsels in his way, while he read his letters.
He ran up for a final look at Margaret, almost upset the staid Miss
Winter as he ran down again, called Richard to take the reins, and was
off.

It was French day, always a trial to Ethel. M. Ballompre, the master,
knew what was good and bad French, but could not render a reason,
and Ethel, being versed in the principles of grammar, from her Latin
studies, chose to know the why and wherefore of his corrections -- she did
not like to see her pages defaced, and have no security against future
errors; while he thought her a troublesome pupil, and was put out by
her questions. They wrangled, Miss Winter was displeased, and Ethel felt
injured.

Mary's inability to catch the pronunciation, and her hopeless dull look
when she found that coeur must not be pronounced cour, nor cur, but
something between, to which her rosy English lips could never come -- all
this did not tease M. Ballompre, for he was used to it.

His mark for Ethel's lesson was
said Miss Winter, when he was gone
said Ethel
So Flora went to read to Margaret, while Blanche went lightly and
playfully through her easy lessons, and Mary floundered piteously over
the difficulties of Compound Long Division. Ethel's mind was in too
irritated and tumultuous a state for her to derive her usual solace from
Cube Root. Her sum was wrong, and she wanted to work it right, but Miss
Winter, who had little liking for the higher branches of arithmetic,
said she had spent time enough over it, and summoned her to an
examination such as the governess was very fond of and often practised.
Ethel thought it useless, and was teased by it; and though her answers
were chiefly correct, they were given in an irritated tone. It was of
this kind:--


        What is the date of the invention of paper?
        What is the latitude and longitude of Otaheite?
        What are the component parts of brass?
        Whence is cochineal imported?


When this was over, Ethel had to fetch her mending-basket, and Mary her
book of selections; the piece for to-day's lesson was the quarrel of
Brutus and Cassius; and Mary's dull droning tone was a trial to her
ears; she presently exclaimed
said Mary, opening wide her light blue eyes
began Miss Winter
said Ethel, only wanting to silence Miss
Winter. In a cooler moment she would not have used the argument
said Miss Winter
Ethel made a fretful contortion, and obeyed. So it went on all the
morning, Ethel's eagerness checked by Miss Winter's dry manner,
producing pettishness, till Ethel, in a state between self-reproach
and a sense of injustice, went up to prepare for dinner, and to visit
Margaret on the way.

She found her sister picking a merino frock to pieces
she
said eagerly
as Ethel did not
show the lively interest that she expected
and Ethel was in the midst of the narration of
her grievances, when Norman came in. The school was half a mile off, but
he had not once failed to come home, in the interval allowed for play
after dinner, to inquire for his sister
said the boy wearily
said Ethel
Dr. Hoxton said
said Margaret
said Flora at the door
said Norman, who considered it his privilege to wait
on Margaret at dinner. When he had brought the tray, he stood leaning
against the bed-post, musing. Suddenly, there was a considerable clatter
of fire-irons, and his violent start surprised Margaret
she said, as if no more was needed to
account for their insecurity. Norman put them up again, but a ringing
sound betrayed that it was not with a firm touch, and when, a minute
after, he came to take her plate, she saw that he was trying with effort
to steady his hand
said he, as if vexed that she had taken any notice
said she, smiling.

He made no reply, but this was not consenting silence
she proceeded
and he stopped short
said she, looking up in his face with
anxious affectionate eyes, but he shunned her glance and walked away
with her plate.

Flora had been in such close attendance upon Margaret, that she needed
some cheerful walks, and though she had some doubts how affairs at
home would go on without her, she was overruled, and sent on a long
expedition with Miss Winter and Mary, while Ethel remained with
Margaret.

The only delay before setting out, was that nurse came in, saying
The sisters looked at each other and smiled, while Margaret asked whence
she came, and who she was
Nurse had fallen into the trap most comfortably, and seemed bent upon
taking this girl as a choice of her own. She wished to know if Miss
Margaret would like to see her
So nurse departed
cried Ethel
said Flora
Lucy Taylor came in, looking very nice, and very shy, curtseying low, in
extreme awe of the pale lady in bed. Margaret was much pleased with her,
and there was no more to be done but to settle that she should come on
Saturday, and to let nurse take her into the town to invest her with the
universal blackness of the household, where the two Margarets were the
only white things.

This arranged, and the walking party set forth, Ethel sat down by her
sister's bed, and began to assist in unpicking the merino, telling
Margaret how much obliged she was to her for thinking of it, and how
grieved at having been so ungrateful in the morning. She was very happy
over her contrivances, cutting out under her sister's superintendence.
She had forgotten the morning's annoyance, till Margaret said
said Ethel, sorry to see
her look uneasy
said Ethel, shocked at her murmurs having even suggested
the possibility of a change, and having, as well as all the others, a
great respect and affection for her governess
continued
Margaret
said Ethel, only anxious to make amends to
Miss Winter
said Margaret
repeated Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel, overpowered by the
recollection of the happy morning's work she had often done in that
very room, when her mother had not been equal to the bustle of the
whole school-room. That watchful, protecting, guarding, mother's love,
a shadow of Providence, had been round them so constantly on every side,
that they had been hardly conscious of it till it was lost to them
said Margaret
said Margaret, smiling
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Margaret
The nursery was deserted -- all were out, and Ethel came back in
trepidation at the notion of having to do it herself, though she knew
it was only to put one arm to support her sister, while, with the other,
she removed the pillows; but Ethel was conscious of her own awkwardness
and want of observation, nor had Margaret entire trust in her. Still she
was too much fatigued to wait, so Ethel was obliged to do her best. She
was careful and frightened, and therefore slow and unsteady. She trusted
that all was right, and Margaret tried to believe so, though still
uneasy.

Ethel began to read to her, and Dr. May came home. She looked up
smiling, and asked where he had been, but it was vain to try to keep him
from reading her face. He saw in an instant that something was amiss,
and drew from her a confession that her back was aching a little. He
knew she might have said a great deal -- she was not in a comfortable
position -- she must be moved. She shook her head -- she had rather
wait -- there was a dread of being again lifted by Ethel that she could
not entirely hide. Ethel was distressed, Dr. May was angry, and, no
wonder, when he saw Margaret suffer, felt his own inability to help,
missed her who had been wont to take all care from his hands, and was
vexed to see a tall strong girl of fifteen, with the full use of both
arms, and plenty of sense, incapable of giving any assistance, and only
doing harm by trying
said he
Ethel could little brook injustice, and much as she was grieving, she
exclaimed
said Margaret, much
more harassed by the scolding than by the pain
But he was not only grieved for the present, but anxious for the future;
and, though he knew it was bad for Margaret to manifest his displeasure,
he could not restrain it, and continued to blame Ethel with enough
of injustice to set her on vindication, whereupon he silenced her, by
telling her she was making it worse by self-justification when Margaret
ought to be quiet. Margaret tried to talk of other things, but was in
too much discomfort to exert herself enough to divert his attention.

At last Flora returned, and saw in an instant what was wanted. Margaret
was settled in the right posture, but the pain would not immediately
depart, and Dr. May soon found out that she had a headache, of which he
knew he was at least as guilty as Etheldred could be.

Nothing could be done but keep her quiet, and Ethel went away to be
miserable; Flora tried to comfort her by saying it was unfortunate, but
no doubt there was a knack, and everyone could not manage those things;
Margaret was easier now, and as to papa's anger, he did not always mean
all he said.

But consolation came at bedtime; Margaret received her with open arms
when she went to wish her goodnight
she said, holding
her close
Ethel smiled and sighed, and Margaret whispered
sighed Ethel -- and just then he came into the room
said Margaret
He was now at ease about Margaret, and knew he had been harsh to another
of his motherless girls
said he, in his half-gay, half-sad manner
said Ethel
said her papa
What could Ethel do but hang round his neck and cry, till he said, but
tenderly, that they had given Margaret quite disturbance enough to-day,
and sent her to bed, vowing to watch each little action, lest she should
again give pain to such a father and sister
COWPER.


The misfortunes of that day disheartened and disconcerted Etheldred. To
do mischief where she most wished to do good, to grieve where she longed
to comfort, seemed to be her fate; it was vain to attempt anything for
anyone's good, while all her warm feelings and high aspirations were
thwarted by the awkward ungainly hands and heedless eyes that Nature had
given her. Nor did the following day, Saturday, do much for her
comfort, by giving her the company of her brothers. That it was Norman's
sixteenth birthday seemed only to make it worse. Their father had
apparently forgotten it, and Norman stopped Blanche when she was going
to put him in mind of it; stopped her by such a look as the child never
forgot, though there was no anger in it. In reply to Ethel's inquiry
what he was going to do that morning, he gave a yawn and stretch, and
said, dejectedly, that he had got some Euripides to look over, and some
verses to finish
said Norman wearily
said
Ethel
Margaret would not keep her long, saying she liked her to be with
Norman, but she found him with his head sunk on his open book, fast
asleep. At dinner-time, Harry and Tom, rushing in, awoke him with a
violent start
said Harry, as his brother stretched
and pinched himself
said
Ethel
said Harry
said
Ethel
said Norman
said Norman, which hint reduced Harry to silence.

Dr. May was not come home; he had gone with Richard far into the
country, and was to return to tea. He was thought to be desirous of
avoiding the family dinners that used to be so delightful. Harry was
impatient to depart, and when Mary and Tom ran after him, he ordered
them back
said Mary, as she looked wistfully after him
said Tom
said Mary
said
Mary
said Mary
as she spied Hector peeping over the gate which led from the
field into the garden. It was the first time that he had been to Dr.
May's since his brother's departure, and he was rather shy, but the
joyful welcome of Mary and Tom took off all reluctance, and they claimed
him for a good game at play in the wood-house. Mary ran upstairs to beg
to be excused the formal walk, and, luckily for her, Miss Winter was
in Margaret's room. Margaret asked if it was very wet and dirty, and
hearing
gave gracious permission, and off went Mary and
Blanche to construct some curious specimens of pottery, under the
superintendence of Hector and Tom. There was a certain ditch where
yellow mud was attainable, whereof the happy children concocted marbles
and vases, which underwent a preparatory baking in the boys' pockets,
that they might not crack in the nursery fire. Margaret only stipulated
that her sisters should be well fenced in brown holland, and when Miss
Winter looked grave, said
Miss Winter could not see the good of groping in the dirt; and Margaret
perceived that it would be one of her difficulties to know how to
follow out her mother's views for the children, without vexing the good
governess by not deferring to her.

In the meantime, Norman had disconsolately returned to his Euripides,
and Ethel, who wanted to stay with him and look out his words, was
ordered out by Miss Winter, because she had spent all yesterday indoors.
Miss Winter was going to stay with Margaret, and Ethel and Flora coaxed
Norman to come with them
He came, but he did not enliven his sisters. The three plodded on,
taking a diligent constitutional walk, exchanging very few words, and
those chiefly between the girls. Flora gathered some hoary clematis,
and red berries, and sought in the hedge-sides for some crimson "fairy
baths" to carry home; and, at the sight of the amusement Margaret
derived from the placing the beauteous little Pezizas in a saucer of
damp green moss, so as to hide the brown sticks on which they grew,
Ethel took shame to herself for want of perception of little attentions.
When she told Norman so, he answered
added he, looking round at the ornaments and things on the tables, which
had lost their air of comfort and good taste. It was not disorder, and
Ethel could not see what he meant
said she
said Ethel
again said Norman, but he put his arm round her
said Norman, running his fingers through his hair till it stood on end
said Norman decidedly
He rested listlessly on the sofa while his sister rummaged in a
chiffonier. At last she found the article, and eagerly read him the
description of the strange forms of the coral animals, and the beauties
of their flower-like feelers and branching fabrics. It would once
have delighted him, but his first comment was
However, the next minute he thanked her, took the book, and said he
could hammer something out of it, though it was too bad to give such an
unclassical subject. At dusk he left off, saying he should get it done
at night, his senses would come then, and he should be glad to sit up
said Ethel, trying to be cheerful;
but his assent was depressing, and she began to fear that Christmas
would only make them more sad.

Mary did not keep Tom's secret so inviolably, but that, while they were
dressing for tea, she revealed to Ethel where Harry was gone. He was
not yet returned, though his father and Richard were come in, and the
sisters were at once in some anxiety on his account, and doubt whether
they ought to let papa know of his disobedience.

Flora and Ethel, who were the first in the drawing-room, had a
consultation
said Flora
sighed Ethel
said
Flora
said
Ethel
said Richard, entering.

The sisters looked at each other, and Ethel, after an interval,
explained their doubts about Harry
said Richard
said Flora
said Ethel
said Richard
said Ethel decidedly
said Flora, smiling
said Richard gently
said Ethel, in a desponding way
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Richard
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Richard
Richard would not let her off. He stood over her, counted her shovelfuls
of tea, and watched the water into the teapot -- he superintended her
warming the cups, and putting a drop into each saucer
said Ethel,
with a concluding sigh
It was all right, as Flora allowed with a slightly superior smile. She
thought Richard would never succeed in making a notable or elegant woman
of Ethel, and it was best that the two sisters should take different
lines. Flora knew that, though clever and with more accomplishments,
she could not surpass Ethel in intellectual attainments, but she was
certainly far more valuable in the house, and had been proved to have
just the qualities in which her sister was most deficient. She did not
relish hearing that Ethel wanted nothing but attention to be more than
her equal, and she thought Richard mistaken. Flora's remembrance of
their time of distress was less unmixedly wretched than it was with the
others, for she knew she had done wonders.

The next day Norman told Ethel that he had got on very well with the
verses, and finished them off late at night. He showed them to her
before taking them to school on Monday morning, and Ethel thought
they were the best he had ever written. There was too much spirit and
poetical beauty for a mere schoolboy task, and she begged for the foul
copy to show it to her father
said Norman
said Ethel
Ethel scanned
she said
He shivered
and his face expressed all, and more than all, he said
said he, with a long yawn, and rubbing
his eyes
Ethel thought those verses ought to make a sensation, but all that
came of them was a Quam optime, and when she asked Norman if no special
notice had been taken of them, he said, in his languid way
Ethel did not even have the satisfaction of hearing that Mr. Wilmot,
happening to meet Dr. May, said to him
Richard watched for an opportunity of speaking to Harry, which did not
at once occur, as the boy spent very little of his time at home, and, as
if by tacit consent, he and Norman came in later every evening. At last,
on Thursday, in the additional two hours' leisure allowed to the boys,
when the studious prepared their tasks, and the idle had some special
diversion, Richard encountered him running up to his own room to fetch a
newly-invented instrument for projecting stones
said Richard
returned Harry
said Richard
His manner conveyed that it related to their mother, and the sobering
effect was instantaneous
said he, forgetting his haste
The awe-struck, shy, yet sorrowful look on his rosy face showed
preparation enough, and Richard's only preface was to say
Richard laid before him the sheet of notepaper on which this portion of
the letter was written, and left him alone with it, while he set out on
the promised walk with Ethel.

They found the old woman, Granny Hall, looking like another creature,
smoke-dried and withered indeed, but all briskness and animation
said Richard
said the old
woman, to Ethel's great amusement
said Ethel, a little shyly
said Ethel, beginning to
undo her basket
stepping out to the door
all
which threats were bawled out in such a good-natured, triumphant voice,
and with such a delighted air, that Richard and Ethel could not help
laughing.

After a few moments, Polly and Jenny made their appearance, extremely
rough and ragged, but compelled by their grandmother to duck down, by
way of courtesies, and, with finger in mouth, they stood, too shy to
show their delight, as the garments were unfolded; Granny talking so
fast that Ethel would never have brought in the stipulation, that the
frocks should be worn to school and church, if Richard, in his mild, but
steady way, had not brought the old woman to listen to it. She was full
of asseverations that they should go; she took them to church sometimes
herself, when it was fine weather and they had clothes, and they could
say their catechiz as well as anybody already; yes, they should come,
that they should, and next Sunday. Ethel promised to be there to
introduce them to the chief lady, the president of the Committee, Mrs.
Ledwich, and, with a profusion of thanks, they took leave.

They found John Taylor, just come out of the hospital, looking weak and
ill, as he smoked his pipe over the fire, his wife bustling about at
a great rate, and one of the infants crying. It seemed to be a great
relief that they were not come to complain of Lucy, and there were many
looks of surprise on hearing what their business really was. Mrs. Taylor
thanked them, and appeared not to know whether she was glad or sorry;
and her husband, pipe in hand, gazed at the young gentleman as if he
did not comprehend the species, since he could not be old enough to be a
clergyman.

Richard hoped they would find sponsors by that time; and there Mrs.
Taylor gave little hope; it was a bad lot -- there was no one she liked to
ask to stand, she said, in a dismal voice; but there her husband put in
said the lamentable Mrs. Taylor
exclaimed her husband
said Richard; and he went on to
speak of the elder children coming to school on Sunday, thus causing
another whining from the wife about distance and bad weather, and no
one else going that way. He said the little Halls were coming, but Mrs.
Taylor begun saying she disliked their company for the children -- granny
let them get about so much, and they said bad words. The father again
interfered. Perhaps Mr. Wilmot, who acted as chaplain at the hospital,
had been talking to him, for he declared at once that they should come;
and Richard suggested that he might see them home when he came from
church; then, turning to the boy and girl, told them they would meet
their sister Lucy, and asked them if they would not like that.

On the whole, the beginning was not inauspicious, though there might be
a doubt whether old Mrs. Hall would keep all her promises. Ethel was so
much diverted and pleased as to be convinced she would; Richard was a
little doubtful as to her power over the wild girls. There could not be
any doubt that John Taylor was in earnest, and had been worked upon just
at the right moment; but there was danger that the impression would
not last
said
Ethel
Richard made no answer, and Ethel presently felt remorseful for her
harsh speech about a poor ignorant woman, overwhelmed with poverty,
children, and weak health
said Richard, after a considerable interval
cried Ethel eagerly; and the black peaty pond she was
looking at seemed to sparkle with sunlight
said Richard deliberately
she said, with some indignation
Ethel was glad she had repeated this, for there was a deepening colour
and smiling glow of pleasure on her brother's face, such as she had
seldom seen on his delicate, but somewhat impassive features
he said warmly
said
Richard
Ethel looked wild with impatience, but could not gainsay these scruples,
otherwise than by declaring they ought not to weigh against the good of
Cocksmoor
said Richard
said Ethel sorrowfully
She fidgeted and gave a long sigh
said Richard, stopping short
said Ethel
and she
jumped over three puddles in succession
For the structure that we raise,
       Time is with materials filled;
     Our to-days and yesterdays,
       Are the blocks which we build.

     Truly shape and fashion these,
       Leave no yawning gaps between;
     Think not, because no man sees,
       Such things will remain unseen.-- LONGFELLOW.


When Ethel came home, burning with the tidings of the newly-excited
hopes for Cocksmoor, they were at once stopped by Margaret eagerly
saying
then on his entrance
and she took from under her
pillows a velvet bag, so heavy, that it weighed down her slender white
hand
said Ethel
said Richard
said Margaret, showing her neat packets
said Ethel
said Richard quietly
said Margaret
And as her
brother left the room, she continued
said Ethel mournfully
and,
without perception of fit times and seasons, Ethel would have told her
story, but Margaret, too anxious to attend to her, said
and Dr. May came in, looking mournful and fatigued
said he
said Margaret
said Dr. May, sitting wearily down, and speaking in a worn-out
voice
as Ethel fetched his
slippers, and placed a stool for his feet, feeling somewhat ashamed of
thinking it an achievement to have, unbidden, performed a small act of
attention which would have come naturally from any of the others
said
Margaret, who saw the quiet of her room would suit him better than the
bustle of the children downstairs
as he gave a smile of
assent.

That Margaret could not be made to listen this evening was plain, and
all that Ethel could do, was to search for some books on schools. In
seeking for them, she displayed such confusion in the chiffonier, that
Flora exclaimed
said Ethel, gulping down her dislike of being reproved by
Flora, with the thought that mamma would have said the same
cried Flora presently, jumping up
and Richard, in a low voice, gave Ethel some advice,
which she received, seated on the floor, in a mood between temper and
despair
said Flora.

Richard did not do it himself, but, by his means, Ethel, without being
in the least irritated, gave the chiffonier a thorough dusting and
setting-to-rights, sorting magazines, burning old catalogues, and
finding her own long-lost 'Undine', at which she was so delighted that
she would have forgotten all; in proceeding to read it, curled up on
the floor amongst the heaps of pamphlets, if another gentle hint from
Richard had not made her finish her task so well, as to make Flora
declare it was a pleasure to look in, and Harry pronounce it to be all
neat and ship-shape.

There was no speaking to Margaret the next morning -- it was French
day -- and Ethel had made strong resolutions to behave better; and whether
there were fewer idioms, or that she was trying to understand, instead
of carping at the master's explanations, they came to no battle; Flora
led the conversation, and she sustained her part with credit, and gained
an excellent mark.

Flora said afterwards to Margaret
said Margaret
It was the second time Margaret had made this proposal, and it did not
please Flora, who had learned to think herself necessary to her sister,
and liked to be the one to do everything for her. She was within six
weeks of seventeen, and surely she need not be sent down again to the
school-room, when she had been so good a manager of the whole family.
She was fond of study and of accomplishments, but she thought she might
be emancipated from Miss Winter; and it was not pleasant to her that a
sister, only eighteen months older, and almost dependant on her, should
have authority to dispose of her time
she said
Margaret was concerned at the dissatisfaction, though not understanding
the whole of it
she said
said Flora
said Margaret
said Flora
said Margaret
Flora went away, evidently annoyed, and Margaret's conjectures on the
cause of it were cut short by Ethel running in with a slate in one hand
and two books in the other, the rest having all tumbled down on the
stairs
It was not till all were done, that Ethel felt free to exclaim
But the
fates were unpropitious. Aubrey trotted in, expecting to be amused; next
came Norman, and Ethel gave up in despair; and, after having affronted
Flora in the morning, Margaret was afraid of renewing the offence, by
attempting to secure Ethel as her companion for the afternoon; so not
till after the walk could Margaret contrive to claim the promised
communication, telling Ethel to come and settle herself cosily by her
said she
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Margaret
was all Ethel said, but she was deeply gratified
said Ethel
Yes" said Margaret
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret, much amused and
pleased, for Richard was her especial darling, and she triumphed in any
eulogy from those who ordinarily were too apt to regard his dullness
with superior compassion
said Ethel
said Margaret
said
Richard gravely
And it was again happily discussed; Ethel, satisfied by finding him
fully set upon the design, and Margaret giving cordial sympathy and
counsel. When Ethel was called away, Margaret said
said Richard
said Richard, smiling
said Margaret
affectionately
said Richard
said Richard
The scene that ensued that evening in the magic lantern before
Margaret's bed, did not promise much for the freedom of her father's
mind. Harry entered with a resolute manner
said he, spreading himself out, with an elbow on each arm of
the chair
answered Margaret reflectingly, and sadly
surveying the bright boy, rosy cheeked, round faced, and blue eyed, with
the childish gladsomeness of countenance, that made it strange that his
lot in life should be already in the balance
said he earnestly
Margaret found herself blushing, and
broke off
said Harry
said Harry, twisting a little
said Harry
said Margaret, smiling
Harry fidgeted
he said
said Harry indignantly
Margaret laughed, and Harry presently perceived what she meant, but
instead of answering, he began to boast
said Margaret
said Harry
cried Harry, dancing
on his chair with triumph
said Harry, who regarded Ethel's attainments as
something contraband
said Harry, lowering his voice into an anxious
confidential tone
said Harry
Harry sighed
he said
Harry looked very reluctant and disconsolate, and his sister did
not wonder for Dr. May's way of hearing of a fault was never to be
calculated on
said she
said Harry, and the words were hardly spoken, before his
father's hand was on the door. He was taken by surprise at the moment
of trial coming so speedily, and had half a mind to retreat by the other
door; he was stayed by the reflection that Margaret would think him a
coward, unfit for a sailor, and he made up his mind to endure whatever
might betide
said he kindly
said Harry, speaking firmly
and boldly now he had once begun
Then came a pause. Harry stopped, and Dr. May waited, half expecting to
hear that the boy was only brought to confession by finding himself in
a scrape. Margaret spoke
said the doctor, looking at his son with
a keen glance, between affection and inquiry, as if only waiting to be
sure the confession was free, before he gave his free forgiveness
said Harry, his voice and lip losing their firmness, as the
sweetness of expression gained the day on his father's face
The latter words came between sighs, fast becoming sobs, in spite of
Harry's attempts to control them, as his father held out his arm, and
drew him close to him
he said in his ear -- in a voice which
strong feeling had reduced to such a whisper, that even Margaret could
not hear -- she only saw how Harry, sobbing aloud, clung tighter and
tighter to him, till he said
and Harry sprang
back at least a yard, with such a look of dismay, that the doctor
laughed
said he
and he took his hand
said Dr. May, half smiling
said Harry, infinitely relieved and grateful, and
quite content for some space to lean in silence against the chair, with
that encircling arm round him, while some talk passed between his father
and Margaret.

What a world of thought passed through the boy's young soul in that
space! First, there was a thrill of intense, burning love to his father,
scarcely less fondness to his sweet motherly sister; a clinging feeling
to every chair and table of that room, which seemed still full of
his mother's presence; a numbering over of all the others with ardent
attachment, and a flinging from him with horror the notion of asking to
be far away from that dearest father, that loving home, that arm that
was round him. Anything rather than be without them in the dreary
world! But then came the remembrance of cherished visions, the shame of
relinquishing a settled purpose, the thought of weary morrows, with the
tempters among his playmates, and his home blank and melancholy; and
the roaming spirit of enterprise stirred again, and reproached him with
being a baby, for fancying he could stay at home for ever. He would come
back again with such honours as Alan Ernescliffe had brought, and oh!
if his father so prized them in a stranger, what would it be in his
own son? Come home to such a greeting as would make up for the parting!
Harry's heart throbbed again for the boundless sea, the tall ship,
and the wondrous foreign climes, where he had so often lived in fancy.
Should he, could he speak: was this the moment? and he stood gazing at
the fire, oppressed with the weighty reality of deciding his destiny.
At last Dr. May looked in his face
Out it came
said Dr. May
said Harry, with the manly coolness that the sense of his
determination gave him
said Dr. May
said his father, smiling kindly
Harry went, and his father sighed and mused
said Margaret
said Dr. May
said Margaret
said the doctor
Then his smile turned into a heavy sigh, as he saw
he had brought colour to Margaret's pale cheek, but she answered calmly
said the doctor, pausing
and Margaret thought it
right to lay before her father some part of what he had said of the
temptations of the school at Stoneborough. The doctor listened and
considered at last he rose, and said
and as he left the room,
his daughter again heard his sigh and half-uttered words
A tale
     Would rouse adventurous courage in a boy,
     And make him long to be a mariner,
     That he might rove the main.-- SOUTHEY.


Etheldred had the satisfaction of seeing the Taylors at school on
Sunday, but no Halls made their appearance, and, on inquiry, she was
told
so Ethel condemned
Granny Hall as
said Richard
but here Ethel caught herself up, and began to perceive what
a happiness it was that she had not the power of acting on her own
impulses.

The twins and their little brother of two years old were christened
in the afternoon, and Flora invited the parents to drink tea in the
kitchen, and visit Lucy, while Ethel and Mary each carried a baby
upstairs to exhibit to Margaret.

Richard, in the meantime, had a conversation with John Taylor, and
learned a good deal about the district, and the number of the people. At
tea, he began to rehearse his information, and the doctor listened with
interest, which put Ethel in happy agitation, believing that the moment
was come, and Richard seemed to be only waiting for the conclusion of a
long tirade against those who ought to do something for the place, when
behold! Blanche was climbing on her father's knee, begging for one of
his Sunday stories.

Etheldred was cruelly disappointed, and could not at first rejoice to
see her father able again to occupy himself with his little girl. The
narration, in his low tones, roused her from her mood of vexation.
It was the story of David, which he told in language scriptural and
poetical, so pretty and tender in its simplicity, that she could not
choose but attend. Ever and anon there was a glance towards Harry, as
if he were secretly likening his own "yellow-haired laddie" to the
he concluded
said Tom
said his little sister
said Tom
said he, smiling sweetly in answer to the
children's earnest looks as they caught his meaning
Ah! thought Ethel, it suits me as well as the children. I have a great
giant on Cocksmoor, and here I am, not allowed to attack him, because,
perhaps, I am not minding my sheep, and letting my lion and my bear run
loose about the house.

She was less impatient this week, partly from the sense of being on
probation, and partly because she, in common with all the rest, was much
engrossed with Harry's fate. He came home every day at dinner-time with
Norman to ask if Alan Ernescliffe's letter had come; and at length Mary
and Tom met them open-mouthed with the news that Margaret had it in her
room.

Thither they hastened. Margaret held it out with a smile of
congratulation
Harry's impetuosity was checked, and he took the letter quietly. His
sister put her hand on his shoulder
and as he threw his arms round her neck, she whispered
He went quietly away, and Norman begged to know what had been Alan
Ernescliffe's advice
said Margaret
said Norman
said Norman, with a look of saddened pride and
approval, not at all like one so near the same age
Harry gave his brother the letter as soon as they were outside the
house, and, while he read it, took his arm and guided him
said
Norman as he finished
said Harry; and the two brothers said no more; there
was something rising up in their throats at the thought that they had
very few more walks to take together to Bishop Whichcote's school;
Norman's heart was very full at the prospect of another vacancy in his
home, and Harry's was swelling between the ardour of enterprise and the
thought of bidding good-bye to each familiar object, and, above all, to
the brother who had been his model and admiration from babyhood
at length he broke out
That evening Dr. May called Harry into his study to ask him if his mind
was made up; he put the subject fairly before him, and told him not to
be deterred from choosing what he thought would be for the best by any
scruples about changing his mind
There was that in his face and tone that caused Harry to say, in a
stifled voice
Dr. May put his hand on his shoulder, and was silent. Harry felt a
strange mixture of hope and fear, joy and grief, disappointment and
relief
he said at
length
Harry paused, not that he doubted, but he was collecting his
energies
after a
pause
And when the name of Thomas May was set down, Dr. Hoxton expressed his
trust that it would pass through the school as free from the slightest
blemish as those of Richard, Norman, and Harry May.

Now that Harry's destiny was fixed, Ethel began to think of Cocksmoor
again, and she accomplished another walk there with Richard, Flora, and
Mary, to question Granny Hall about the children's failure.

The old woman's reply was a tissue of contradictions: the girls were
idle hussies, all contrary: they plagued the very life out of her, and
she represented herself as using the most frightful threats, if they
would not go to school. Breaking every bone in their skin was the least
injury she promised them; till Mary, beginning to think her a cruel old
woman, took hold of her brother's coat-tails for protection
said Richard, in that tone which might be
either ironical or simple
said she, patronising his
inexperience
said Richard. Granny looked much
entertained, and laughed triumphantly and shrewdly
said Richard
Mary thought her a kind grandmother, and came out from behind her
brother
This was foresight beyond Granny Hall, who began to expatiate on the
troubles she had undergone in their service, and the excellence of Sam.
There was certainly a charm in her manners, for Ethel forgot her charge
of ingratitude, the other sisters were perfectly taken with her, nor
could they any of them help giving credence to her asseverations that
Jenny and Polly should come to school next Sunday.

They soon formed another acquaintance; a sharp-faced woman stood in
their path, with a little girl in her hand, and arrested them with a low
curtsey, and not a very pleasant voice, addressing herself to Flora,
who was quite as tall as Richard, and appeared the person of most
consequence
said Flora
said Richard, cutting her short
and a great deal more to the same purpose.

Mary whispered to Flora something about having outgrown her boots, but
Flora silenced her by a squeeze of the hand, and the two friends of
Cocksmoor felt a good deal puzzled.

At last Flora said
And they walked hastily away
was Ethel's exclamation
said innocent Mary
said
Richard, not much to Flora's satisfaction
she said
said Ethel
said Ethel
Ethel could answer with dignity, but her heart sank at the aspect of
what she had undertaken. She knew there would be evil, but she had
expected it in a more striking and less disagreeable form.

That walk certainly made her less impatient, though it did not relax her
determination, nor the guard over her lion and bear, which her own
good feeling, aided by Margaret's council, showed her were the greatest
hindrances to her doing anything good and great.

Though she was obliged to set to work so many principles and reflections
to induce herself to wipe a pen, or to sit straight on her chair, that
it was like winding up a steam-engine to thread a needle; yet the work
was being done -- she was struggling with her faults, humbled by them,
watching them, and overcoming them.

Flora, meanwhile, was sitting calmly down in the contemplation of the
unexpected services she had rendered, confident that her character for
energy and excellence was established, believing it herself, and looking
back on her childish vanity and love of domineering as long past and
conquered. She thought her grown-up character had begun, and was too
secure to examine it closely
One thing is wanting in the beamy cup
       Of my young life! one thing to be poured in;
     Ay, and one thing is wanting to fill up
       The measure of proud joy, and make it sin.-- F. W. F.


Hopes that Dr. May would ever have his mind free, seemed as fallacious
as mamma's old promise to Margaret, to make doll's clothes for her
whenever there should be no live dolls to be worked for in the nursery.

Richard and Ethel themselves had their thoughts otherwise engrossed.
The last week before the holidays was an important one. There was
an examination, by which the standing of the boys in the school was
determined, and this time it was of more than ordinary importance, as
the Randall scholarship of &pound;100 a year for three years would be open in
the summer to the competition of the first six boys. Richard had never
come within six of the top, but had been past at every examination by
younger boys, till his father could bear it no longer; and now Norman
was too young to be likely to have much chance of being of the number.
There were eight decidedly his seniors, and Harvey Anderson, a small,
quick-witted boy, half a year older, who had entered school at the same
time, and had always been one step below him, had, in the last three
months, gained fast upon him.

Harry, however, meant Norman to be one of the six, and declared all the
fellows thought he would be, except Andersen's party. Mr. Wilmot, in a
call on Ethel and Flora, told them that he thought their brother had a
fair chance, but he feared he was over-working himself, and should tell
the doctor so, whenever he could catch him; but this was difficult, as
there was a great deal of illness just then, and he was less at home
than usual.

All this excited the home party, but Norman only seemed annoyed by talk
about it, and though always with a book in his hand, was so dreamy and
listless, that Flora declared that there was no fear of his doing too
much -- she thought he would fail for want of trying
said Norman
The great day was the 20th of December, and Ethel ran out, as the boys
went to school, to judge of Norman's looks, which were not promising
said Harry, since he had stayed up doing Euripides and
Cicero the whole length of a candle that had been new at bedtime
said Ethel, consolingly, to Harry;
but she was very uneasy herself, for she had set her heart on his
surpassing Harvey Anderson. No more was heard all day. Tom went at
dinner-time to see if he could pick up any news; but he was shy, or
was too late, and gained no intelligence. Dr. May and Richard talked
of going to hear the speeches and viva voce examination in the
afternoon -- objects of great interest to all Stoneborough men -- but just
as they came home from a long day's work, Dr. May was summoned to the
next town, by an electric telegraph, and, as it was to a bad case, he
did not expect to be at home till the mail-train came in at one o'clock
at night. Richard begged to go with him, and he consented, unwillingly,
to please Margaret, who could not bear to think of his "fending for
himself" in the dark on the rail-road.

Very long did the evening seem to the listening sisters. Eight, and
no tidings; nine, the boys not come; Tom obliged to go to bed by sheer
sleepiness, and Ethel unable to sit still, and causing Flora demurely to
wonder at her fidgeting so much, it would be so much better to fix her
attention to some employment; while Margaret owned that Flora was right,
but watched, and started at each sound, almost as anxiously as Ethel.

It was ten, when there was a sharp pull at the bell, and down flew the
sisters; but old James was beforehand, and Harry was exclaiming
and up he rushed, shouted the
news to her, but could not stay for congratulation; broke Tom's slumber
by roaring it in his ear, and dashed into the nursery, where nurse for
once forgave him for waking the baby. Norman, meanwhile, followed his
eager sisters into the drawing-room, putting up his hand as if the
light dazzled him, and looking, by no means, as it he had just achieved
triumphant success.

Ethel paused in her exultation
he said wearily, making his way to his dark corner
he answered
said Flora
and the pain was evidently severe
said Ethel, knowing what was the greater
suffering; but he did not move, and they forbore to torment him with
questions. The next moment Harry came down in an ecstacy, bringing in,
from the hall, Norman's beautiful prize books, and showing off their
Latin inscription
said he, looking at his brother
said Flora
said Ethel
said Harry
muttered Norman; but no one heeded, and Harry
continued
said Harry
said Flora,
smiling at that honest beaming face of joy
said Norman, looking up
said Harry
and, as the two elder girls made this exclamation,
Mary proceeded to a rapturous embrace
said Ethel
said Harry
said Flora
After telling it once in her room, once in the nursery, in whispers
like gusts of wind, and once in the pantry, Harry employed himself in
writing
in immense letters, on pieces of paper, which
he disposed all over the house, to meet the eyes of his father and
Richard on their return.

Ethel's joy was sadly damped by Norman's manner. He hardly spoke -- only
just came in to wish Margaret good-night, and shrank from her
affectionate sayings, departing abruptly to his own room
said she, as he went
sighed Ethel, nearly ready to cry
said Margaret, trying to console
herself as well as Ethel
Ethel did not understand what mental fatigue was, for her active,
vigorous spirit had never been tasked beyond its powers
said she disconsolately
said Ethel, mournfully
she said impatiently, and the hot tears breaking out
said Ethel, nearly convinced, but in a slightly
petulant voice
said Margaret
Ethel smiled, and drew up her head, and said no boys were like them
anywhere, and papa would be delighted, and so went to bed happier in her
exultation, and in hoping that the holidays would make Norman himself
again.

Nothing could be better news for Dr. May, who had never lost a grain
of the ancient school-party-loyalty that is part of the nature of the
English gentleman. He was a thorough Stoneborough boy, had followed
the politics of the Whichcote foundation year by year all his life, and
perhaps, in his heart, regarded no honour as more to be prized than that
of Dux and Randall scholar. Harry was in his room the next morning as
soon as ever he was stirring, a welcome guest -- teased a little at first,
by his pretending to take it all as a sailor's prank to hoax him and
Richard, and then free to pour out to delighted ears the whole history
of the examination, and of every one's congratulations.

Norman himself was asleep when Harry went to give this narration. He
came down late, and his father rose to meet him as he entered
he said
and the
whole tone and gesture had a heartfelt approval and joy in them, that
Ethel knew her brother was deeply thrilled by, for his colour deepened,
and his lips quivered into something like a smile, though he did not
lift his eyes.

Then came Richard's warm greeting and congratulation, he, too, showing
himself as delighted as if the honours were his own; and then Dr. May
again, in lively tones, like old times, laughing at Norman for sleeping
late, and still not looking well awake, asking him if he was quite sure
it was not all a dream
said Norman
said Dr. May
There had not been such a merry breakfast for months. There was the old
confusion of voices; the boys, Richard, and the doctor had much to talk
over of the school doings of this week, and there was nearly as much
laughing as in days past. Ethel wondered whether any one but herself
observed that the voice most seldom heard was Norman's.

The promised call was made by Dr. Hoxton, and Mr. Everard, an old
friend, and after their departure Dr. May came to Margaret's room with
fresh accounts, corroborating what Harry had said of the clear knowledge
and brilliant talent that Norman had displayed, to a degree that
surprised his masters, almost as much as the examiners. The copy
of verses Dr. May brought with him, and construed them to Margaret,
commenting all the way on their ease, and the fullness of thought,
certainly remarkable in a boy of sixteen.

They were then resigned to Ethel's keeping, and she could not help
imparting her admiration to their author, with some apology for vexing
him again
said Norman, whom these words roused to a
sense that he had been churlish last night
said Norman
said Norman
said Norman,
yawning and stretching
said Ethel
To which he answered, with displeasure, that he was as well as possible,
ordered her not to go and make any more fuss, and left her hastily. She
was unhappy, and far from satisfied; she had never known his temper
so much affected, and was much puzzled; but she was too much afraid of
vexing him, to impart her perplexity even to Margaret. However, the next
day, Sunday, as she was reading to Margaret after church, her father
came in, and the first thing he said was
said Margaret
said Dr. May
said Margaret, while Ethel gazed intently at her
father, wondering whether she ought to speak, for Margaret did not know
half what she did; nothing about the bad nights, nor what he called the
exclaimed Ethel, in a smothered voice
whispered she.

The doctor made a sound of sorrowful assent, as if much struck; then
said
said Ethel
said Dr. May, after a pause
exclaimed her father
said Ethel, as her
father drew out her words, apparently with his eye
said her father, examining her without
apparent emotion, as if it had been an indifferent patient
said Ethel
cried Dr. May, in some anger
said Ethel timidly
said Ethel, in great dismay
And Ethel was much relieved by pouring
out all she knew, though her alarm was by no means lessened by the
effect it produced on her father, especially when he heard of the
he said
cried Ethel, in extreme distress
said the doctor, with a low groan
said Margaret's soft voice
said Dr. May
continued Margaret
He went away, leaving Margaret to comfort Ethel as well as she could, by
showing her that he had not said the mischief was done, putting her in
mind that he was wont to speak strongly; and trying to make her thankful
that her brother would now have such care as might avert all evil
results
said Ethel
quod he
CHAUCER.


That night Norman started from, what was not so much sleep, as a trance
of oppression and suffering, and beheld his father's face watching him
attentively
said he, starting up
said Dr. May, possessing himself of a
hand, with a burning spot in the palm, and a throbbing pulse
said Norman
uneasily
Norman scarcely let his father count for a moment, before he asked
said Norman, with feverish
impatience, as he turned upwards the cool side of his pillow
said his father, still watching him
repeated the boy
and he tried to look settled and
comfortable
said his father, in a voice betraying much grief
Norman interrupted him in a voice strangled with sobs
Dr. May was glad to see that a gush of tears followed this exclamation,
as Norman hid his face under the coverings
said he, hardly able to speak
said Norman, turning his face
towards him again
added Norman, hiding his face again
said Dr. May, with deep feeling
said Norman
Norman's last sight that night was of the outline of his father's
profile, and he was scarcely awake the next morning before Dr. May was
there again.

Unwilling as he had been to give way, it was a relief to relinquish the
struggle to think himself well, and to venture to lounge and dawdle,
rest his heavy head, and stretch his inert limbs without fear of
remark. His father found him after breakfast lying on the sofa in the
drawing-room with a Greek play by his side, telling Ethel what words to
look out
exclaimed Dr. May
said Norman
said Norman
languidly
Norman rose, and wearily walked upstairs, while his sister lingered
to excuse herself
Norman found the baby in his sister's room, and this was just what
suited him. The Daisy showed a marked preference for her brothers; and
to find her so merry and good with him, pleased and flattered him far
more than his victory at school. He carried her about, danced her,
whistled to her, and made her admire her pretty blue eyes in the glass
most successfully, till nurse carried her off. But perhaps he had been
sent up rather too soon, for as he sat in the great chair by the fire,
he was teased by the constant coming and going, all the petty cares of
a large household transacted by Margaret -- orders to butcher and
cook -- Harry racing in to ask to take Tom to the river -- Tom, who was to
go when his lesson was done, coming perpetually to try to repeat the
same unhappy bit of 'As in Proesenti', each time in a worse whine
said Norman, as she finally dismissed
Tom, and laid down her account-book, taking up some delicate fancy work
as enter a message about lamp oil, in the midst
of which Mary burst in to beg Margaret to get Miss Winter to let her go
to the river with Harry and Tom
as she looked much disposed
to cry
added Norman; and Mary
departed disconsolate, while Margaret gave a sigh of weariness, and
said, as she returned to her work
said Norman,
as he took away the books she had done with
said Margaret sadly
said Margaret
and Norman groaned from the bottom of his heart
said
Margaret cheerfully
said Norman, with a yawn, as expressive
as a sigh
said Margaret, smiling
said Norman, with a shade of his former
alacrity
Norman read, but, ere long, took to yawning; Margaret begged for the
book, which he willingly resigned, saying, however, that he liked it,
only he was stupid. She read on aloud, till she heard a succession of
heavy breathings, and saw him fast asleep, and so he continued till
waked by his father's coming home.

Richard and Ethel were glad of a walk, for Margaret had found them a
pleasant errand. Their Cocksmoor children could not go home to dinner
between service and afternoon school, and Margaret had desired the cook
to serve them up some broth in the back kitchen, to which the brother
and sister were now to invite them. Mary was allowed to take her boots
to Rebekah Watts, since Margaret held that goodness had better be
profitable, at least at the outset; and Harry and Tom joined the party.

Norman, meantime, was driving his father -- a holiday preferment highly
valued in the days when Dr. May used only to assume the reins, when his
spirited horses showed too much consciousness that they had a young
hand over them, or when the old hack took a fit of laziness. Now, Norman
needed Richard's assurance that the bay was steady, so far was he from
being troubled with his ancient desire, that the steed would rear right
up on his hind legs.

He could neither talk nor listen till he was clear out of the town, and
found himself master of the animal, and even then the words were few,
and chiefly spoken by Dr. May, until after going along about three miles
of the turnpike road, he desired Norman to turn down a cross-country
lane
said Norman, after a few minutes
Norman followed his father down a steep narrow lane, little better than
a stony water-course, and began to repeat
said Dr. May, as they
came to the bottom of the valley, where a stream rushed along, coloured
with a turbid creamy yellow, making little whirlpools where it crossed
the road, and brawling loudly just above where it roared and foamed
between two steep banks of rock, crossed by a foot-bridge of planks,
guarded by a handrail of rough poles. The doctor had traversed it, and
gone a few paces beyond, when, looking back, he saw Norman very pale,
with one foot on the plank, and one hand grasping the rail. He came
back, and held out his hand, which Norman gladly caught at, but no
sooner was the other side attained, than the boy, though he gasped with
relief, exclaimed
He tried, but the first touch of the shaking rail, and glance at the
chasm, disconcerted him, and his father, seeing his white cheeks and
rigid lips, said
he
added, as the boy came to him reluctantly
said he
and he was turning back, but the doctor took
his arm, saying decidedly
But the farther Norman
was from the bridge, the more displeased he was with himself, and more
anxious to dare it again
he muttered
said the doctor, holding him fast
muttered Norman disdainfully
Dr. May smiled
Norman made no answer, and Dr. May presently said
Norman spoke vehemently
said his father kindly
Norman made a little murmuring sound of assent, and both were silent for
some moments, then he said
said Norman, in a much cheered
voice.

They had, in the meantime, been mounting a rising ground, clothed with
stunted wood, and came out on a wide heath, brown with dead bracken; a
hollow, traced by the tops of leafless trees, marked the course of the
stream that traversed it, and the inequalities of ground becoming more
rugged in outlines and grayer in colouring as they receded, till they
were closed by a dark fir wood, beyond which rose in extreme distance
the grand mass of Welsh mountain heads, purpled against the evening sky,
except where the crowning peaks bore a veil of snow. Behind, the sky was
pure gold, gradually shading into pale green, and then into clear light
wintry blue, while the sun sitting behind two of the loftiest, seemed
to confound their outlines, and blend them in one flood of soft hazy
brightness. Dr. May looked at his son, and saw his face clear up, his
brow expand, and his lips unclose with admiration
said the doctor
he added, hardly knowing that he spoke aloud. Norman's throat
swelled, as he looked up in his face, then cast down his eyes hastily to
hide the tears that had gathered on his eyelashes
said Dr. May
When he came back, Norman was still where he had left him, gazing
earnestly, and the tears standing on his cheeks. He did not move till
his father laid his hand on his shoulder -- they walked away together
without a word, and scarcely spoke all the way home.

Dr. May went to Margaret and talked to her of Norman's fine character,
and intense affection for his mother, the determined temper, and quietly
borne grief, for which the doctor seemed to have worked himself into a
perfect enthusiasm of admiration; but lamenting that he could not tell
what to do with him -- study or no study hurt him alike -- and he dreaded to
see health and spirits shattered for ever. They tried to devise change
of scene, but it did not seem possible just at present; and Margaret,
besides her fears for Norman, was much grieved to see this added to her
father's troubles.

At night Dr. May again went up to see whether Norman, whom he had moved
into Margaret's former room, were again suffering from fever. He found
him asleep in a restless attitude, as if he had just dropped off, and
waking almost at the instant of his entrance, he exclaimed
Then starting, and looking round the room, and at his father, he
collected himself, and said, with a slight smile
said the doctor
said the doctor
said the
doctor, more affected than he liked to show
said Norman, in a low voice
But Norman could not repeat the words, and only murmured
It was enough
said the doctor
almost sobbed Norman
after
a long silence
The days are sad, it is the Holy tide,
     When flowers have ceased to blow and birds to sing.
                                               F. TENNYSON.


It had been a hard struggle to give up all thoughts of study, and Norman
was not at first rewarded for it, but rather exemplified the truth of
his own assertion, that he was worse without it; for when this sole
occupation for his mind was taken away, he drooped still more. He would
willingly have shown his father that he was not discontented, but he was
too entirely unnerved to be either cheerful or capable of entering with
interest into any occupation. If he had been positively ill, the task
would have been easier, but the low intermittent fever that hung about
him did not confine him to bed, only kept him lounging, listless and
forlorn, through the weary day, not always able to go out with his
father, and on Christmas Day unfit even for church.

All this made the want of his mother, and the vacancy in his home, still
more evident, and nothing was capable of relieving his sadness but his
father's kindness, which was a continual surprise to him. Dr. May was a
parent who could not fail to be loved and honoured; but, as a busy man,
trusting all at home to his wife, he had only appeared to his children
either as a merry playfellow, or as a stern paternal authority, not
often in the intermediate light of guiding friend, or gentle guardian;
and it affected Norman exceedingly to find himself, a tall schoolboy,
watched and soothed with motherly tenderness and affection; with
complete comprehension of his feelings, and delicate care of them. His
father's solicitude and sympathy were round him day and night, and this,
in the midst of so much toil, pain, grief, and anxiety of his own, that
Norman might well feel overwhelmed with the swelling, inexpressible
feelings of grateful affection.

How could his father know exactly what he would like -- say the very
things he was thinking -- see that his depression was not wilful
repining -- find exactly what best soothed him! He wondered, but he
could not have said so to any one, only his eye brightened, and, as his
sisters remarked, he never seemed half so uncomfortable when papa was
in the room. Indeed, the certainty that his father felt the sorrow as
acutely as himself, was one reason of his opening to him. He could not
feel that his brothers and sisters did so, for, outwardly, their habits
were unaltered, their spirits not lowered, their relish for things
around much the same as before, and this had given Norman a sense of
isolation. With his father it was different. Norman knew he could never
appreciate what the bereavement was to him -- he saw its traces in almost
every word and look, and yet perceived that something sustained and
consoled him, though not in the way of forgetfulness. Now and then
Norman caught at what gave this comfort, and it might be hoped he would
do so increasingly; though, on this Christmas Day, Margaret felt very
sad about him, as she watched him sitting over the fire, cowering with
chilliness and headache, while every one was gone to church, and saw
that the reading of the service with her had been more of a trouble than
a solace.

She tried to think it bodily ailment, and strove hard not to pine for
her mother, to comfort them both, and say the fond words of refreshing
cheering pity that would have made all light to bear. Margaret's home
Christmas was so spent in caring for brother, father, and children,
that she had hardly time to dwell on the sad change that had befallen
herself.

Christmas was a season that none of them knew well how to meet: Blanche
was overheard saying to Mary that she wished it would not come, and
Mary, shaking her head, and answering that she was afraid that was
naughty, but it was very tiresome to have no fun. Margaret did her best
upstairs, and Richard downstairs, by the help of prints and hymns, to
make the children think of the true joy of Christmas, and in the evening
their father gathered them round, and told them the stories of the
Shepherds and of the Wise Men, till Mary and Blanche agreed, as they
went up to bed, that it had been a very happy evening.

The next day Harry discomfited the schoolroom by bursting in with the
news that
Ethel and Flora were obliged to appear in the drawing-room, where
they were greeted by two girls, rather older than themselves. A whole
shower of inquiries for Dr. May, for Margaret, and for the dear little
baby, were first poured out; then came hopes that Norman was well, as
they had not seen him at church yesterday
exclaimed Ethel, pleased at participation in her
rejoicing
Flora gave a glance of warning, but Ethel's short-sighted eyes were
beyond the range of correspondence, and Miss Anderson continued
said Flora
began Ethel. Flora tried
to stop her, but Louisa Anderson caught at what she said, and looked
eagerly for more
said she, only thinking of exalting her
generous brother
replied Louisa
said Flora
said Ethel piteously
said Flora,
launching another look at her sister, which again fell short.

A great deal of polite inquiry whether they were uneasy about him
followed, mixed with a little boasting of dear Harvey's diligence
Ethel coloured, and mumbled, and Flora answered for her
said Flora
cried Ethel vehemently
said Fanny
said Flora
said
Ethel
said Ethel
The visitors took their leave, and the two sisters began
exclaiming -- Ethel at their dislike of her proteges, and Flora at what
they had said of Norman
cried Ethel
cried Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Flora
Ethel was very unhappy till she was able to pour all this trouble out
to Margaret, and worked herself almost into crying about Norman's being
passed by
and his sisters exulting, and papa being vexed,
and Norman losing time and not caring
said Margaret
and she told Ethel
a little of what had passed.

Ethel was much struck
said Ethel
said Margaret, smiling
said Ethel grudgingly
Ethel looked grave
said she
said Ethel, faltering
said
Margaret
Ethel hung her head
she said
said Ethel
said Margaret
Ethel was silent for some little space, then suddenly exclaimed
Margaret seemed to have been talking with little effect, but she kept
her patience, and answered
With which Ethel was so far appeased that she promised to think as
little as she could of the Andersons, and a walk with Richard to
Cocksmoor turned the current of her thoughts. They had caught some
more Sunday-school children by the help of Margaret's broth, but it was
uphill work; the servants did not like such guests in the kitchen, and
they were still less welcome at school
said Flora, the next Sunday, as
they joined each other in the walk from school to church
cried Ethel
said Flora
The Tuesday of this week was appointed for the visit of the London
surgeon, Sir Matthew Fleet, and the expectation caused Dr. May to talk
much to Margaret of old times, and the days of his courtship, when it
had been his favourite project that his friend and fellow-student should
marry Flora Mackenzie, and there had been a promising degree of liking,
but "Mat" had been obliged to be prudent, and had ended by never
marrying at all. This the doctor, as well as his daughters, believed was
for the sake of Aunt Flora, and thus the girls were a good deal excited
about his coming, almost as much on his own account, as because they
considered him as the arbiter of Margaret's fate. He only came in time
for a seven o'clock dinner, and Margaret did not see him that night, but
heard enough from her sisters, when they came up to tell the history of
their guest, and of the first set dinner when Flora had acted as lady
of the house. The dinner it appeared had gone off very well. Flora
had managed admirably, and the only mishap was some awkward carving of
Ethel's which had caused the dish to be changed with Norman. As to the
guest, Flora said he was very good-looking and agreeable. Ethel abruptly
pronounced
said Flora
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Flora
again said Ethel
said Margaret
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
as he
entered
said Flora, leaving the
room
said Norman
said Ethel
cried Norman
indignantly
asked Margaret
said Norman
Norman's indignation had quite revived him, and Margaret was much
entertained with the conflicting opinions. The next was Richard's, when
he came in late to wish her good-night, after he had been attending on
Sir Matthew's examination of his father's arm. He did nothing but admire
the surgeon's delicacy of touch and understanding of the case, his view
agreeing much better with Dr. May's own than that with Mr. Ward's.
Dr. May had never been entirely satisfied with the present mode of
treatment, and Richard was much struck by hearing him say, in answer to
Sir Matthew, that he knew his recovery might have been more speedy and
less painful if he had been able to attend to it at first, or to afford
time for being longer laid up. A change of treatment was now to be made,
likely soon to relieve the pain, to be less tedious and troublesome,
and to bring about a complete cure in three or four months at latest.
In hearing such tidings, there could be little thought of the person
who brought them, and Margaret did not, till the last moment, learn that
Richard thought Sir Matthew very clever and sensible, and certain to
understand her case. Her last visitor was her father
After a night spent in waking intervals of such thoughts, Margaret
found the ordinary morning, and the talk she could not escape, somewhat
oppressive. Her brothers and sisters disturbed her by their open
expressions of hope and anxiety; she dreaded to have the balance of
tranquillity overset; and then blamed herself for selfishness in not
being as ready to attend to them as usual. Ethel and Norman came
up after breakfast, their aversion by no means decreased by further
acquaintance. Ethel was highly indignant at the tone in which he had
exclaimed
on discovering
the existence of the baby; and when Norman observed that was not so
atrocious either, she proceeded
said Norman
said Norman
said Margaret
said Norman
said Ethel
Nurse here came to prepare for the surgeon's visit.

It was over, and Margaret awaited the judgment. Sir Matthew had spoken
hopefully to her, but she feared to fasten hopes on what might have no
meaning, and could rely on nothing, till she had seen her father, who
never kept back his genuine opinion, and would least of all from her. She
found her spirits too much agitated to talk to her sisters, and quietly
begged them to let her be quite alone till the consultation was over,
and she lay trying to prepare herself to submit thankfully, whether she
might be bidden to resign herself to helplessness, or to let her mind
open once more to visions of joyous usefulness. Every step she hoped
would prove to be her father's approach, and the longest hour of her
life was that before he entered her room. His face said that the tidings
were good, and yet she could not ask
and the colour spread over her face, as she
squeezed his hand very fast
and Dr. May gave her the grounds of the opinion, and an
account of other like cases, which he said had convinced him
he said
He turned away his face, and the clasp of
their hands spoke the rest.

Presently he told Margaret that she was no longer to be kept prostrate,
but she was to do exactly as was most comfortable to her, avoiding
nothing but fatigue. She might be lifted to the sofa the next day, and
if that agreed with her, she might be carried downstairs.

This, in itself, after she had been confined to her bed for three
months, was a release from captivity, and all the brothers and sisters
rejoiced as if she was actually on her feet again. Richard betook
himself to constructing a reading-frame for the sofa; Harry tormented
Miss Winter by insisting on a holiday for the others, and gained the
day by an appeal to his father; then declared he should go and tell Mr.
Wilmot the good news; and Norman, quite enlivened, took up his hat, and
said he would come too.

In all his joy, however, Dr. May could not cease bewailing the
alteration in his old friend, and spent half the evening in telling
Margaret how different he had once been, in terms little less measured
than Ethel's
And when he was alone with Norman, he could not help saying
Meanwhile, Sir Matthew Fleet had met another old college friend in
London, and was answering his inquiries for the Dick May of ancient
times
To thee, dear maid, each kindly wile
       Was known, that elder sisters know,
     To check the unseasonable smile,
       With warning hand and serious brow.

     From dream to dream with her to rove,
       Like fairy nurse with hermit child;
     Teach her to think, to pray, to love,
       Make grief less bitter, joy less wild.
                          LINES ON A MONUMENT AT LICHFIELD.


Sir Matthew Fleet's visit seemed like a turning-point with the May
family, rousing and giving them revived hopes. Norman began to shake off
his extreme languor and depression, the doctor was relieved from much
of the wearing suffering from his hurt, and his despondency as to
Margaret's ultimate recovery had been driven away. The experiment of
taking her up succeeded so well, that on Sunday she was fully attired
As she lay on the sofa there seemed an advance
toward recovery. Much sweet coquetry was expended in trying to look
her best for her father; and her best was very well, for though the
brilliant bloom of health was gone, her cheeks had not lost their pretty
rounded contour, and still had some rosiness, while her large bright
blue eyes smiled and sparkled. A screen shut out the rest of the room,
making a sort of little parlour round the fire, where sundry of the
family were visiting her after coming home from church in the afternoon.
Ethel was in a vehement state of indignation at what had that day
happened at school
said Dr. May, coming in from his own room, where
he had heard a few words
said the doctor
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Dr. May, who never wanted
much provocation to begin storming about parish affairs
said Ethel
said Margaret pleadingly
said Margaret
said Dr. May
began Ethel; but Margaret knew he
would not act on this, squeezed her hand, and silenced her
continued Dr. May
said Richard, who had all the time been standing silent
What a bound Ethel's heart gave, and how full of congratulation and
sympathy was the pressure of Margaret's hand
said the doctor. Ethel burned to reply,
but her sister's hand admonished her to remember her compact. Richard
answered
Ethel, unable to bear it any longer, threw herself forward, and sitting
on the ground at her father's feet, exclaimed
said the doctor, surprised
said her father, with a rather provoking look of
incredulity
She clasped her hands in ecstasy
cried she, in a breathless voice of transport
said the doctor, patting
the agitated girl fondly as she leaned against his knee
said Ethel
said her father, smiling archly as he looked up
to his son, whose fair face had coloured deep red
said Margaret
said Ethel, with an odd shy manner
said the brother and sister
earnestly
said Ethel
said the doctor
Ethel ran up to her room, hardly able to believe that the mighty
proposal was made; and it had been so readily granted, that it seemed
as if Richard's caution had been vain in making such a delay, that even
Margaret had begun to fear that the street of by-and-by was leading to
the house of never. Now, however, it was plain that he had been wise.
Opportunity was everything; at another moment, their father might have
been harassed and oppressed, and unable to give his mind to concerns,
which now he could think of with interest, and Richard could not have
caught a more favourable conjuncture.

Ethel was in a wild state of felicity all that evening and the next day,
very unlike her brother, who, dismayed at the open step he had taken,
shrank into himself, and in his shyness dreaded the discussion in the
evening, and would almost have been relieved, if Mr. Wilmot had been
unable to accept the invitation. So quiet and grave was he, that Ethel
could not get him to talk over the matter at all with her, and she was
obliged to bestow all her transports and grand projects on Flora or
Margaret, when she could gain their ears, besides conning them over to
herself, as an accompaniment to her lessons, by which means she tried
Miss Winter's patience almost beyond measure. But she cared not -- she
saw a gathering school and rising church, which eclipsed all thought
of present inattentions and gaucheries. She monopolised Margaret in the
twilight, and rhapsodised to her heart's content, talking faster and
faster, and looking more and more excited. Margaret began to feel
a little overwhelmed, and while answering "yes" at intervals, was
considering whether Ethel had not been flying about in an absent
inconsiderate mood all day, and whether it would seem unkind to damp
her ardour, by giving her a hint that she was relaxing her guard over
herself. Before Margaret had steeled herself, Ethel was talking of a
story she had read, of a place something like Cocksmoor. Margaret was
not ready with her recollection, and Ethel, saying it was in a magazine
in the drawing-room chiffonier, declared she would fetch it.

Margaret knew what it was to expect her visitors to return
and with a
feeling she began
but Ethel was too impetuous to attend
she called out, and down she flew, in her speed whisking
away, without seeing it, the basket with Margaret's knitting and all
her notes and papers, which lay scattered on the floor far out of
reach, vexing Margaret at first, and then making her grieve at her own
impatient feeling.

Ethel was soon in the drawing-room, but the right number of the magazine
was not quickly forthcoming, and in searching she became embarked in
another story. Just then, Aubrey, whose stout legs were apt to carry him
into every part of the house where he was neither expected nor wanted,
marched in at the open door, trying by dint of vehement gestures to make
her understand, in his imperfect speech, something that he wanted. Very
particularly troublesome she thought him, more especially as she could
not make him out, otherwise than that he wanted her to do something
with the newspaper and the fire. She made a boat for him with an old
newspaper, a very hasty and frail performance, and told him to sail it
on the carpet, and be Mr. Ernescliffe going away; and she thought him
thus safely disposed of. Returning to her book and her search, with her
face to the cupboard, and her book held up to catch the light, she was
soon lost in her story, and thought of nothing more till suddenly roused
by her father's voice in the hall, loud and peremptory with alarm
She looked, and beheld Aubrey brandishing a
great flaming paper -- he dropped it at the exclamation -- it fell burning
on the carpet. Aubrey's white pinafore! Ethel was springing up, but in
her cramped, twisted position she could not do so quickly, and even as
he called, her father strode by her, snatched at Aubrey's merino frock,
which he crushed over the scarcely lighted pinafore, and trampled out
the flaming paper with his foot. It was a moment of dreadful fright, but
the next assured them that no harm was done
cried the doctor
Aubrey, here recollecting himself enough to be frightened at his
father's voice and manner, burst into loud cries; the doctor pressed him
closer on his breast, caressed and soothed him. Ethel stood by, pale and
transfixed with horror. Her father was more angry with her than she
had ever seen him, and with reason, as she knew, as she smelled the
singeing, and saw a large burnt hole in Aubrey's pinafore, while the
front of his frock was scorched and brown. Dr. May's words were not
needed
she faltered
Aubrey roared afresh, and Dr. May, kissing and comforting him, gathered
him up in his left arm, and carried him away, looking back at the door
to say
Ethel was too much terrified to know where she was, or anything,
but that she had let her little brother run into fearful peril, and
grievously angered her father; she was afraid to follow him, and stood
still, annihilated, and in despair, till roused by his return; then,
with a stifled sob, she exclaimed
and could get no further
for a gush of tears.

But the anger of the shock of terror was over, and Dr. May was sorry
for her tears, though still he could not but manifest some displeasure
he said
and he could not
but shudder again
sobbed Ethel
said Ethel, choked
said Dr. May sadly; then looking earnestly at her
he spoke very low, and drew her close to him
and his voice was nearly inaudible
He pressed his hand tightly on her shoulder, and left her, without
letting her see his face. Shocked and bewildered, she hurried upstairs
to Margaret. She threw herself on her knees, felt her arms round
her, and heard her kind soothing, and then, in broken words, told how
dreadful it had been, and how kind papa had been, and what he had said,
which was now the uppermost thought
whispered Margaret
said Ethel, clasping her hands
said Margaret
Ethel was in great distress
said she
Margaret paused, and Ethel exclaimed
said Ethel thoughtfully
said Ethel
cried Ethel
Ethel sat for a long time with her head hidden in Margaret's pillows,
and her hand clasped by her good elder sister. At last she looked up and
said
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel again
Ethel lingered with her sister till Harry and Mary came up with
Margaret's tea, and summoned her, and she crept downstairs, and entered
the room so quietly, that she was hardly perceived behind her boisterous
brother. She knew her eyes were in no presentable state, and cast them
down, and shrank back as Mr. Wilmot shook her hand and greeted her
kindly.

Mr. Wilmot had been wont to come to tea whenever he had anything to say
to Dr. or Mrs. May, which was about once in ten or twelve days. He was
Mary's godfather, and their most intimate friend in the town, and he
had often been with them, both as friend and clergyman, through their
trouble -- no later than Christmas Day, he had come to bring the feast of
that day to Margaret in her sick-room. Indeed, it had been chiefly
for the sake of the Mays that he had resolved to spend the holidays
at Stoneborough, taking the care of Abbotstoke, while his brother, the
vicar, went to visit their father. This was, however, the first time
he had come in his old familiar way to spend an evening, and there was
something in the resumption of former habits that painfully marked the
change.

Ethel, on coming in, found Flora making tea, her father leaning back
in his great chair in silence, Richard diligently cutting bread,
and Blanche sitting on Mr. Wilmot's knee, chattering fast and
confidentially. Flora made Harry dispense the cups, and called every one
to their places; Ethel timidly glanced at her father's face, as he rose
and came into the light. She thought the lines and hollows were more
marked than ever, and that he looked fatigued and mournful, and she
felt cut to the heart; but he began to exert himself, and to make
conversation, not, however, about Cocksmoor, but asking Mr. Wilmot what
his brother thought of his new squire, Mr. Rivers
said Mr. Wilmot
asked Flora
So the talk lingered on, without much interest or life. It was rather
keeping from saying nothing than conversation, and no one was without
the sensation that she was missing, round whom all had been free and
joyous -- not that she had been wont to speak much herself, but nothing
would go on smoothly or easily without her. So long did this last, that
Ethel began to think her father meant to punish her by not beginning the
subject that night, and though she owned that she deserved it, she could
not help being very much disappointed.

At length, however, her father began
said Mr. Wilmot, brightening and looking interested
This embarked the doctor in the history of the ladies being too fine to
teach the poor Cocksmoor girls, which he told with kindling vehemence
and indignation, growing more animated every moment, as he stormed over
the wonted subject of the bad system of management -- ladies' committee,
negligent incumbent, insufficient clergy, misappropriated tithes -- while
Mr. Wilmot, who had mourned over it, within himself, a hundred times
already, and was doing a curate's work on sufferance, with no pay, and
little but mistrust from Mr. Ramsden, and absurd false reports among the
more foolish part of the town, sat listening patiently, glad to hear
the doctor in his old strain, though it was a hopeless matter for
discussion, and Ethel dreaded that the lamentation would go on till
bedtime, and Cocksmoor be quite forgotten.

After a time they came safely back to the project, and Richard was
called on to explain. Ethel left it all to him, and he with rising
colour, and quiet, unhesitating, though diffident manner, detailed
designs that showed themselves to have been well matured. Mr. Wilmot
heard, cordially approved, and, as all agreed that no time was to be
lost, while the holidays lasted, he undertook to speak to Mr. Ramsden on
the subject the next morning, and if his consent to their schemes could
be gained, to come in the afternoon to walk with Richard and Ethel to
Cocksmoor, and set their affairs in order. All the time Ethel said not
a word, except when referred to by her brother; but when Mr. Wilmot took
leave, he shook her hand warmly, as if he was much pleased with her
she thought
She did not know that Mr. Wilmot thought her silence one of the best
signs for the plan, nor how much more doubtful he would have thought her
perseverance, if he had seen her wild and vehement. As it was, he was
very much pleased, and when the doctor came out with him into the hall,
he could not help expressing his satisfaction in Richard's well-judged
and sensibly-described project
said the doctor
said Mr. Wilmot
Dr. May gave his hand a squeeze, full of feeling, and went up to tell
Margaret. She, on the first opportunity, told Richard, and made him
happier than he had been for months, not so much in Mr. Wilmot's words,
as in his father's assent to, and pleasure in them
Pitch thy behaviour low, thy projects high,
       So shalt thou humble and magnanimous be;
     Sink not in spirit; who aimeth at the sky
       Shoots higher much than he that means a tree.
         A grain of glory mixed with humbleness,
         Cures both a fever and lethargicness.
                                             HERBERT
said Dr. May, on the
following morning
said Norman briskly
said the doctor,
looking out at the window
said Richard.

Norman set out with his father, and prosperously performed the
expedition, arriving at Abbotstoke Grange at the appointed hour
said the doctor, as the iron gates of ornamental scrollwork were
swung back
said Norman
as Norman helped him off with his
plaid
Dr. May disappeared from his son's sight through the conservatory,
where, through the plate-glass, the exotics looked so fresh and perfumy,
that Norman almost fancied that the scent reached him
thought he
Norman had plenty of time to meditate on the camellias, and then to
turn and speculate on the age of the cedar, whether it could have been
planted by the monks of Stoneborough Abbey, to whom the Grange had
belonged, brought from Lebanon by a pilgrim, perhaps; and then he tried
to guess at the longevity of cedars, and thought of asking Margaret, the
botanist of the family. Then he yawned, moved the horse a little
about, opined that Mr. Rivers must be very prosy, or have some abstruse
complaint, considered the sky, and augured rain, buttoned another button
of his rough coat, and thought of Miss Cleveland's dinner. Then he
thought there was a very sharp wind, and drove about till he found a
sheltered place on the lee side of the great cedar, looked up at it, and
thought it would be a fine subject for verses, if Mr. Wilmot knew of it,
and then proceeded to consider what he should make of them.

In the midst he was suddenly roused by the deep-toned note of a dog, and
beheld a large black Newfoundland dog leaping about the horse in great
indignation
called a clear young voice, and he saw two
ladles returning from a walk. Rollo, at the first call, galloped back to
his mistress, and was evidently receiving an admonition, and promising
good behaviour. The two ladies entered the house, while he lay down on
the step, with his lion-like paw hanging down, watching Norman with a
brilliant pair of hazel eyes. Norman, after a little more wondering
when Mr. Rivers would have done with his father, betook himself to civil
demonstrations to the creature, who received them with dignity, and
presently, after acknowledging with his tail, various whispers of
and
having apparently satisfied himself
that the young gentleman was respectable, he rose, and vouchsafed to
stand up with his forepaws in the gig, listening amiably to Norman's
delicate flatteries. Norman even began to hope to allure him into
jumping on the seat: but a great bell rang, and Rollo immediately turned
round, and dashed off, at full speed, to some back region of the house
thought Norman
and Norman disconsolately put up his umbrella.

At last Dr. May and another gentleman were seen in the conservatory, and
Norman gladly proceeded to clear the seat; but Dr. May called out
With boyish shrinking from strangers, Norman privately wished Mr.
Rivers at Jericho, as he gave the reins to a servant, and entered the
conservatory, where a kindly hand was held out to him by a gentleman
of about fifty, with a bald smooth forehead, soft blue eyes, and gentle
pleasant face
said he, turning to Dr.
May -- and the manner of both was as if they were already well acquainted
said Dr. May. And then followed the question addressed to
Norman himself, where he was at school
said Norman, a little amused at the thought how angry
Ethel and Harry would be that the paragraph of the county paper, where
"N. W. May" was recorded as prizeman and foremost in the examination,
had not penetrated even to Abbotstoke Grange, or rather to its owner's
memory.

However, his father could not help adding
This, and Mr. Rivers's civil answer, made Norman so hot, that he did not
notice much in passing through a hall full of beautiful vases, stuffed
birds, busts, etc., tastefully arranged, and he did not look up till
they were entering a handsome dining-room, where a small square table
was laid out for luncheon near a noble fire.

The two ladies were there, and Mr. Rivers introduced them as his
daughter and Mrs. Larpent. It was the most luxurious meal that Norman
had ever seen, the plate, the porcelain, and all the appointments of
the table so elegant, and the viands, all partaking of the Christmas
character, and of a recherche delicate description quite new to him.
He had to serve as his father's right hand, and was so anxious to put
everything as Dr. May liked it, and without attracting notice, that he
hardly saw or listened till Dr. May began to admire a fine Claude on the
opposite wall, and embarked in a picture discussion. The doctor had
much taste for art, and had made the most of his opportunities of seeing
paintings during his time of study at Paris, and in a brief tour to
Italy. Since that time, few good pictures had come in his way, and these
were a great pleasure to him, while Mr. Rivers, a regular connoisseur,
was delighted to meet with one who could so well appreciate them. Norman
perceived how his father was enjoying the conversation, and was much
interested both by the sight of the first fine paintings he had ever
seen, and by the talk about their merits; but the living things in the
room had more of his attention and observation, especially the young
lady who sat at the head of the table; a girl about his own age; she
was on a very small scale, and seemed to him like a fairy, in the airy
lightness and grace of her movements, and the blithe gladsomeness of her
gestures and countenance. Form and features, though perfectly healthful
and brisk, had the peculiar finish and delicacy of a miniature painting,
and were enhanced by the sunny glance of her dark soft smiling eyes.
Her hair was in black silky braids, and her dress, with its gaiety of
well-assorted colour, was positively refreshing to his eye, so long
accustomed to the deep mourning of his sisters. A little Italian
greyhound, perfectly white, was at her side, making infinite variations
of the line of beauty and grace, with its elegant outline, and S-like
tail, as it raised its slender nose in hopes of a fragment of bread
which she from time to time dispensed to it.

Luncheon over, Mr. Rivers asked Dr. May to step into his library, and
Norman guessed that they had been talking all this time, and had never
come to the medical opinion. However, a good meal and a large fire made
a great difference in his toleration, and it was so new a scene, that
he had no objection to a prolonged waiting, especially when Mrs. Larpent
said, in a very pleasant tone
He felt somewhat as if he was walking in enchanted ground as he followed
her into the large room, the windows opening into the conservatory,
the whole air fragrant with flowers, the furniture and ornaments so
exquisite of their kind, and all such a fit scene for the beautiful
little damsel, who, with her slender dog by her side, tripped on
demurely, and rather shyly, but with a certain skipping lightness in her
step. A very tall overgrown schoolboy did Norman feel himself for one
bashful moment, when he found himself alone with the two ladies; but he
was ready to be set at ease by Mrs. Larpent's good-natured manner, when
she said something of Rollo's discourtesy. He smiled, and answered
that he had made great friends with the fine old dog, and spoke of his
running off to the dinner, at which little Miss Rivers laughed,
and looked delighted, and began to tell of Rollo's perfections and
intelligence. Norman ventured to inquire the name of the little Italian,
and was told it was Nipen, because it had once stolen a cake, much like
the wind-spirit in Feats on the Fiord. Its beauty and tricks were duly
displayed, and a most beautiful Australian parrot was exhibited, Mrs.
Larpent taking full interest in the talk, in so lively and gentle a
manner, and she and her pretty pupil evidently on such sister-like
terms, that Norman could hardly believe her to be the governess, when he
thought of Miss Winter.

Miss Rivers took up some brown leaves which she was cutting out with
scissors, and shaping
said Mrs. Larpent, in answer
to the inquiring look of Norman's eyes
and Norman looked eagerly, asking questions, and watching while
Miss Rivers cut out her ivy leaf and marked its veins, and showed how
she copied it from nature. He thanked her, saying
A glance of earnest interest from little Meta's bright eyes at her
governess, and Mrs. Larpent, in a kind, soft tone that quite gained his
heart, asked
said Norman
Mrs. Larpent's sympathetic questions, and Meta's softening eyes,
gradually drew from him a great deal about Margaret's helpless state,
and her patience, and capabilities, and how every one came to her with
all their cares; and Norman, as he spoke, mentally contrasted the life,
untouched by trouble and care, led by the fair girl before him, with
that atmosphere of constant petty anxieties round her namesake's couch,
at years so nearly the same
said little Meta, quickly and softly; and a
tear was sparkling on her eyelashes
said Norman earnestly
Mrs. Larpent asked kind questions whether his father's arm was very
painful, and the hopes of its cure; and he felt as if she was a great
friend already. Thence they came to books. Norman had not read for
months past, but it happened that Meta was just now reading Woodstock,
with which he was of course familiar; and both grew eager in discussing
that and several others. Of one, Meta spoke in such terms of delight,
that Norman thought it had been very stupid of him to let it lie on the
table for the last fortnight without looking into it.

He was almost sorry to see his father and Mr. Rivers come in, and hear
the carriage ordered, but they were not off yet, though the rain was now
only Scotch mist. Mr. Rivers had his most choice little pictures
still to display, his beautiful early Italian masters, finished like
illuminations, and over these there was much lingering and admiring.
Meta had whispered something to her governess, who smiled, and advanced
to Norman
said she.

No sooner said than done; the door into the conservatory was opened,
and Meta, cutting sprays of beautiful geranium, delicious heliotrope,
fragrant calycanthus, deep blue tree violet, and exquisite hothouse
ferns; perfect wonders to Norman, who, at each addition to the bouquet,
exclaimed by turns
and
Her father reached a magnolia blossom from on high, and the quick warm
grateful emotion trembled in Dr. May's features and voice, as he said
Margaret Rivers cast down her eyes, half smiled, and shrank back,
thinking she had never felt anything like the left-handed grasp, so full
of warmth and thankfulness. It gave her confidence to venture on the
one question on which she was bent. Her father was in the hall, showing
Norman his Greek nymph; and lifting her eyes to Dr. May's face, then
casting them down, she coloured deeper than ever, as she said, in a
stammering whisper
Dr. May answered in his softest, most reassuring tones
he added, smiling
said Meta, earnestly looking up
said he
Meta tried to say
but not succeeding, looked imploringly
at her governess, who spoke for her
A few words more, and Meta was skipping about like a sprite finding
a basket for the flowers -- she had another shake of the hand, another
grateful smile, and
from the doctor; and then, as the
carriage disappeared, Mrs. Larpent exclaimed
said Mr. Rivers
said Meta
said
Mr. Rivers
was Dr. May's
remark, as Norman drove from the door
said Norman
said Norman, with a
tone of enjoyment that did his father's heart good
said Norman
He went into the cottage, and soon returned, saying
And, at the next house, it was the same story
A far more talkative journey than usual ensued; the discussion of the
paintings and antiques was almost equally delightful to the father and
son, and lasted till, about a mile from Stoneborough, they descried
three figures in the twilight
called the doctor, as Norman drew up
was Mr. Wllmot's answer, while Ethel scrambled
in, and tried to make herself small, an art in which she was not very
successful; and Norman gave an exclamation of horrified warning, as she
was about to step into the flower-basket; then she nearly tumbled out
again in dismay, and was relieved to find herself safely wedged in,
without having done any harm, while her father called out to Mr. Wilmot,
as they started
That cheerful tone, and the kindness to herself, were a refreshment and
revival to Ethel, who was still sobered and shocked by her yesterday's
adventure, and by the sense of her father's sorrowful displeasure.
Expecting further to be scolded for getting in so awkwardly, she did not
venture to volunteer anything, and even when he kindly said
she only made answer, in a very
grave voice
said Dr. May
was all Ethel could say; overpowered by his
kindness, and more repressed by what she felt so unmerited, than she
would have been by coldness, she said few words, and preferred listening
to Norman, who began to describe their adventures at the Grange.

All her eagerness revived, however, as she sprang out of the carriage,
full of tidings for Margaret; and it was almost a race between her and
Norman to get upstairs, and unfold their separate budgets.

Margaret's lamp had just been lighted, when they made their entrance,
Norman holding the flowers on high
Norman found one story at a time was enough, and relinquished the
field, contenting himself with silently helping Margaret to arrange the
flowers, holding the basket for her, and pleased with her gestures of
admiration. Ethel went on with her history
Ethel departed on her father's coming in to ask Margaret if she would
like to have a visit from Mr. Wilmot. She enjoyed this very much, and
he sat there nearly an hour, talking of many matters, especially the
Cocksmoor scheme, on which she was glad to hear his opinion at first
hand
she said
Margaret, in words more adequate to express the possession the project
had gained of Ethel's ardent mind, explained the whole history of it
said she
said Mr. Wilmot
said Margaret
said Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Wilmot
said Margaret, sighing
said her friend kindly
said Mr. Wilmot
said Margaret, smiling sadly
said Margaret
said Margaret, pausing; and then, with a sweet look, though a
heavy sigh, she said
and here the doctor returned, talking of
Abbotstoke Grange, where he had certainly been much pleased
he said
Norman had his turn by-and-by. He came up after tea, reporting that papa
was fast asleep in his chair, and the others would go on about Cocksmoor
till midnight, if they were let alone; and made up for his previous
yielding to Ethel, by giving, with much animation, and some excitement,
a glowing description of the Grange, so graphic, that Margaret said she
could almost fancy she had been there
said Margaret, smiling
EVANS.   Peace your tattlings. What is fair, William?
   WILLIAM. PULCHER.
   QUICKLY. Poulcats! there are fairer things than poulcats sure!
   EVANS.   I pray you have your remembrance, child, accusative
            HING HANG HOG.
   QUICKLY. HANG HOG is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
                                                   SHAKESPEARE.


In a large family it must often happen, that since every member of it
cannot ride the same hobby, nor at the same time, their several steeds
must sometimes run counter to each other; and so Ethel found it, one
morning when Miss Winter, having a bad cold, had given her an unwonted
holiday.

Mr. Wilmot had sent a large parcel of books for her to choose from for
Cocksmoor, but this she could not well do without consultation. The
multitude bewildered her, she was afraid of taking too many or too few,
and the being brought to these practical details made her sensible that
though her schemes were very grand and full for future doings, they
passed very lightly over the intermediate ground. The Paulo post fulurum
was a period much more developed in her imagination than the future,
that the present was flowing into.

Where was her coadjutor, Richard? Writing notes for papa, and not to
be disturbed. She had better have waited tranquilly, but this would not
suit her impatience, and she ran up to Margaret's room. There she found
a great display of ivy leaves, which Norman, who had been turning
half the shops in the town upside down in search of materials, was
instructing her to imitate in leather-work -- a regular mania with him,
and apparently the same with Margaret.

In came Ethel
said Norman
said Ethel
Ethel gazed and went away, more put out than was usual with her
she thought
She next met Flora
said Flora, turning them over as they lay heaped on the
drawing-room sofa
Ethel could not deny it, and began to deal them out in piles, looking
somewhat more fitting, but still felt neglected and aggrieved, at no one
being at leisure but Harry, who was not likely to be of any use to her.

Presently she heard the study door open, and hoped; but though it was
Richard who entered the room, he was followed by Tom, and each held
various books that boded little good to her. Miss Winter had, much
to her own satisfaction, been relieved from the charge of Tom, whose
lessons Richard had taken upon himself; and thus Ethel had heard so
little about them for a long time past, that even in her vexation and
desire to have them over, she listened with interest, desirous to judge
what sort of place Tom might be likely to take in school.

She did not perceive that this made Richard nervous and uneasy. He had a
great dislike to spectators of Latin lessons; he never had forgotten an
unlucky occasion, some years back, when his father was examining him
in the Georgics, and he, dull by nature, and duller by confusion and
timidity, had gone on rendering word for word -- enim for, seges a crop,
lini of mud, urit burns, campum the field, avenae a crop of pipe, urit
burns it; when Norman and Ethel had first warned him of the beauty of
his translation by an explosion of laughing, when his father had shut
the book with a bounce, shaken his head in utter despair, and told him
to give up all thoughts of doing anything -- and when Margaret had cried
with vexation. Since that time, he had never been happy when any one was
in earshot of a lesson; but to-day he had no escape -- Harry lay on the
rug reading, and Ethel sat forlorn over her books on the sofa. Tom,
however, was bright enough, declined his Greek nouns irreproachably, and
construed his Latin so well, that Ethel could not help putting in a word
or two of commendation, and auguring the third form
said she coaxingly
said Richard; who, to her surprise, did not
look pleased or satisfied with the prosperous translation
Tom twisted and looked rather cross, but when asked to parse the word
viribus, answered readily and correctly
gabbled off Tom with such confidence, that though Ethel
gave an indignant jump, Richard was almost startled into letting it
pass, and disbelieving himself. He remonstrated in a somewhat hesitating
voice
said he
said Tom hastily
Richard said no more, but proposed the word oppositus
Ethel was surprised, for she remembered that it was, in this passage,
part of a passive verb, which Tom had construed correctly
and she had thought this very creditable to him, whereas he
now evidently took it for opposite; however, on Richard's reading the
line, he corrected himself and called it a participle, but did not
commit himself further, till asked for its derivation
cried Harry, who hitherto had been abstracted in his book, but
now turned, raised himself on his elbow, and, at the blunder, shook his
thick yellow locks, and showed his teeth like a young lion
said Richard resignedly
said Tom, twisting his fingers, and gazing first at Ethel,
then at Harry, in hopes of being prompted, then at the ceiling and
floor, the while he drawled out the word with a whine
said Harry
said Richard
and a mumble
Tom again looked for help to Harry, who made a mischievous movement of
his lips, as if prompting, and, deceived by it, he said boldly
cried Harry, in an ecstasy
said Richard, in a gentle reasonable voice
And Harry, who really had a tolerable share of forbearance and
consideration, actually obeyed, contenting himself with tossing his book
into the air and catching it again, while he paused at the door to give
his last unsolicited assistance
Richard, with the gravity of a victim, heard this sally of schoolboy
wit, which threw Ethel back on the sofa in fits of laughing, and
declaring that the Opossum declined, not that he was declined; but, in
the midst of the disturbance thus created, Tom stepped up to her, and
whispered
said she
He was obliged to confess his ignorance, and Richard made him conjugate
the whole verb opponor from beginning to end, in which he wanted a good
deal of help.

Ethel could not help saying
drawled Tom, in the voice, half sullen, half piteous,
which he always assumed when out of sorts
she said decidedly; but Richard took no notice, and
proceeded to the other lessons, which went off tolerably well, except
the arithmetic, where there was some great misunderstanding, into which
Ethel did not enter for some time. When she did attend, she perceived
that Tom had brought a right answer, without understanding the working
of the sum, and that Richard was putting him through it. She began to
be worked into a state of dismay and indignation at Tom's behaviour, and
Richard's calm indifference, which made her almost forget 'Jane Sparks',
and long to be alone with Richard; but all the world kept coming into
the room, and going out, and she could not say what was in her mind till
after dinner, when, seeing Richard go up into Margaret's room, she ran
after him, and entering it, surprised Margaret, by not beginning on her
books, but saying at once, "Ritchie, I wanted to speak to you about Tom.
I am sure he shuffled about those lessons."

"I am afraid he does," said Richard, much concerned.

"What, do you mean that it is often so?"

"Much too often," said Richard; "but I have never been able to detect
him; he is very sharp, and has some underhand way of preparing his
lessons that I cannot make out."

"Did you know it, Margaret?" said Ethel, astonished not to see her
sister looked shocked as well as sorry.

"Yes," said Margaret, "Ritchie and I have often talked it over, and
tried to think what was to be done."

"Dear me! why don't you tell papa? It is such a terrible thing!"

"So it is," said Margaret, "but we have nothing positive or tangible
to accuse Tom of; we don't know what he does, and have never caught him
out."

"I am sure he must have found out the meaning of that oppositum in some
wrong way -- if he had looked it out, he would only have found opposite.
Nothing but opponor could have shown him the rendering which he made."

"That's like what I have said almost every day," said Richard, "but
there we are -- I can't get any further."

"Perhaps he guesses by the context," said Margaret.

"It would be impossible to do so always," said both the Latin scholars
at once.

"Well, I can't think how you can take it so quietly," said Ethel. "I
would have told papa the first moment, and put a stop to it. I have a
great mind to do so, if you won't.

"Ethel, Ethel, that would never do!" exclaimed Margaret, "pray don't.
Papa would be so dreadfully grieved and angry with poor Tom."

"Well, so he deserves," said Ethel.

"You don't know what it is to see papa angry," said Richard.

"Dear me, Richard!" cried Ethel, who thought she knew pretty well what
his sharp words were. "I'm sure papa never was angry with me, without
making me love him more, and, at least, want to be better."

"You are a girl," said Richard.

"You are higher spirited, and shake off things faster," said Margaret.

"Why, what do you think he would do to Tom?"

"I think he would be so very angry, that Tom, who, you know, is timid
and meek, would be dreadfully frightened," said Richard.

"That's just what he ought to be, frightened out of these tricks."

"I am afraid it would frighten him into them still more," said Richard,
"and perhaps give him such a dread of my father as would prevent him
from ever being open with him."

"Besides, it would make papa so very unhappy," added Margaret. "Of
course, if poor dear Tom had been found out in any positive deceit, we
ought to mention it at once, and let him be punished; but while it is
all vague suspicion, and of what papa has such a horror of, it would
only grieve him, and make him constantly anxious, without, perhaps,
doing Tom any good."

"I think all that is expediency," said Ethel, in her bluff, abrupt way.

"Besides," said Richard, "we have nothing positive to accuse him of, and
if we had, it would be of no use. He will be at school in three weeks,
and there he would be sure to shirk, even if he left it off here. Every
one does, and thinks nothing of it."

"Richard!" cried both sisters, shocked. "You never did?"

"No, we didn't, but most others do, and not bad fellows either. It is
not the way of boys to think much of those things."

"It is mean -- it is dishonourable -- it is deceitful!" cried Ethel.

"I know it is very wrong, but you'll never get the general run of boys
to think so," said Richard.

"Then Tom ought not to go to school at all till he is well armed against
it," said Ethel.

"That can't be helped," said Richard. "He will get clear of it in time,
when he knows better."

"I will talk to him," said Margaret, "and, indeed, I think it would be
better than worrying papa."

"Well," said Ethel, "of course I shan't tell, because it is not my
business, but I think papa ought to know everything about us, and I
don't like your keeping anything back. It is being almost as bad as Tom
himself."

With which words, as Flora entered, Ethel marched out of the room in
displeasure, and went down, resolved to settle Jane Sparks by herself
said Flora
said Margaret
cried Flora
said Margaret
said Flora
said Richard
said Margaret thoughtfully
Richard and Flora agreed with her, admiring the spirit which made her,
in her weakness and helplessness, bear the whole burden of family cares
alone, and devote herself entirely to spare her father. He was, indeed,
her first object, and she would have sacrificed anything to give him
ease of mind; but, perhaps, she regarded him more as a charge of
her own, than as, in very truth, the head of the family. She had the
government in her hands, and had never been used to see him exercise it
much in detail (she did not know how much her mother had referred to
him in private), and had succeeded to her authority at a time when his
health and spirits were in such a state as to make it doubly needful to
spare him. It was no wonder that she sometimes carried her consideration
beyond what was strictly right, and forgot that he was the real
authority, more especially as his impulsive nature sometimes carried him
away, and his sound judgment was not certain to come into play at
the first moment, so that it required some moral courage to excite
displeasure, so easy of manifestation; and of such courage there was,
perhaps, a deficiency in her character. Nor had she yet detected her own
satisfaction in being the first with every one in the family.

Ethel was put out, as Flora had discovered, and when she was downstairs
she found it out, and accused herself of having been cross to Margaret,
and unkind to Tom -- of wishing to be a tell-tale. But still, though
displeased with herself, she was dissatisfied with Margaret; it might
be right, but it did not agree with her notions. She wanted to see every
one uncompromising, as girls of fifteen generally do; she had an intense
disgust and loathing of underhand ways, could not bear to think of
Tom's carrying them on, and going to a place of temptation with them
uncorrected; and she looked up to her father with the reverence and
enthusiasm of one like minded.

She was vexed on another score. Norman came home from Abbotstoke Grange
without having seen Miss Rivers, but with a fresh basket of choice
flowers, rapturous descriptions of Mr. Rivers's prints, and a present
of an engraving, in shading, such as to give the effect of a cast, of
a very fine head of Alexander. Nothing was to be thought of but a frame
for this -- olive, bay, laurel, everything appropriate to the conqueror.
Margaret and Norman were engrossed in the subject, and, to Ethel, who
had no toleration for fancy work, who expected everything to be either
useful or intellectual, this seemed very frivolous. She heard her
father say how glad he was to see Norman interested and occupied, and
certainly, though it was only in leather leaves, it was better than
drooping and attending to nothing. She knew, too, that Margaret did it
for his sake, but, said Ethel to herself
Then came the pang of finding out that this was aggravated by the
neglect of herself; she called it all selfishness, and felt that she had
had an uncomfortable, unsatisfactory day, with everything going wrong
Gently supported by the ready aid
       Of loving hands, whose little work of toil
     Her grateful prodigality repaid
       With all the benediction of her smile,
         She turned her failing feet
         To the softly cushioned seat,
       Dispensing kindly greetings all the time.
                                             R. M. MILNES.


Three great events signalised the month of January. The first was, the
opening of the school at Cocksmoor, whither a cart transported half
a dozen forms, various books, and three dozen plum-buns, Margaret's
contribution, in order that the school might begin with eclat. There
walked Mr. Wilmot, Richard, and Flora, with Mary, in a jumping, capering
state of delight, and Ethel, not knowing whether she rejoiced. She
kept apart from the rest, and hardly spoke, for this long probation had
impressed her with a sense of responsibility, and she knew that it was
a great work to which she had set her hand -- a work in which she must
persevere, and in which she could not succeed in her own strength.

She took hold of Flora's hand, and squeezed it hard, in a fit of
shyness, when they came upon the hamlet, and saw the children watching
for them; and when they reached the house, she would fain have shrank
into nothing; there was a swelling of heart that seemed to overwhelm and
stifle her, and the effect of which was to keep her standing unhelpful,
when the others were busy bringing in the benches and settling the room.

It was a tidy room, but it seemed very small when they ranged the
benches, and opened the door to the seven-and-twenty children, and the
four or five women who stood waiting. Ethel felt some dismay when they
all came pushing in, without order or civility, and would have been
utterly at a loss what to do with her scholars now she had got them, if
Richard and Flora had not marshalled them to the benches.

Rough heads, torn garments, staring vacant eyes, and mouths gaping in
shy rudeness -- it was a sight to disenchant her of visions of pleasure in
the work she had set herself. It was well that she had not to take the
initiative.

Mr. Wilmot said a few simple words to the mothers about the wish to
teach their children what was right, and to do the best at present
practicable; and then told the children that he hoped they would take
pains to be good, and mind what they were taught. Then he desired all
to kneel down; he said the Collect
and then the Lord's Prayer.

Ethel felt as if she could bear it better, and was more up to the work
after this. Next, the children were desired to stand round the room, and
Mr. Wilmot tried who could say the Catechism -- the two biggest, a boy and
a girl, had not an idea of it, and the boy looked foolish, and grinned
at being asked what was his name. One child was tolerably perfect, and
about half a dozen had some dim notions. Three were entirely ignorant of
the Lord's Prayer, and many of the others did not by any means pronounce
the words of it. Jane and Fanny Taylor, Rebekah Watts, and Mrs. Green's
little boy, were the only ones who, by their own account, used morning
and evening prayers, though, on further examination, it appeared that
Polly and Jenny Hall, and some others, were accustomed to repeat the old
rhyme about
and Una M'Carthy and her
little brother Fergus said something that nobody could make out, but
which Mr. Wilmot thought had once been an
Some few of the children could read, and several more knew their
letters. The least ignorant were selected to form a first class, and Mr.
Wilmot promised a Prayer-book to the first who should be able to repeat
the Catechism without a mistake, and a Bible to the first who could read
a chapter in it.

Then followed a setting of tasks, varying from a verse of a Psalm, or
the first answer in the Catechism, down to the distinction between A,
B, and C; all to be ready by next Tuesday, when, weather permitting,
a second lesson was to be given. Afterwards, a piece of advice of
Margaret's was followed, and Flora read aloud to the assembly the story
of
To some this seemed to give great satisfaction,
especially to Una, but Ethel was surprised to see that many, and those
not only little ones, talked and yawned. They had no power of attention
even to a story, and the stillness was irksome to such wild colts. It
was plain that it was time to leave off, and there was no capacity there
which did not find the conclusion agreeable, when the basket was opened,
and Ethel and Mary distributed the buns, with instructions to say
The next Tuesday, some of the lessons were learned, Una's perfectly, the
big ignorant boy came no more; and some of the children had learned to
behave better, while others behaved worse; Ethel began to know what she
was about; Richard's gentleness was eminently successful with the little
girls, impressing good manners on them in a marvellous way; and Mary's
importance and happiness with alphabet scholars, some bigger than
herself, were edifying. Cocksmoor was fairly launched.

The next memorable day was that of Margaret's being first carried
downstairs. She had been willing to put it off as long as she could,
dreading to witness the change below-stairs, and feeling, too, that in
entering on the family room, without power of leaving it, she was losing
all quiet and solitude, as well as giving up that monopoly of her father
in his evenings, which had been her great privilege.

However, she tried to talk herself into liking it; and was rewarded
by the happy commotion it caused, though Dr. May was in a state of
excitement and nervousness at the prospect of seeing her on the stairs,
and his attempts to conceal it only made it worse, till Margaret knew
she should be nervous herself, and wished him out of sight and out of
the house till it was over, for without him she had full confidence in
the coolness and steadiness of Richard, and by him it was safely and
quietly accomplished. She was landed on the sofa, Richard and Flora
settling her, and the others crowding round and exclaiming, while the
newness of the scene and the change gave her a sense of confusion, and
she shut her eyes to recover her thoughts, but opened them the next
instant at her father's exclamation that she was overcome, smiled to
reassure him, and declared herself not tired, and to be very glad to be
among them again. But the bustle was oppressive, and her cheerful manner
was an effort; she longed to see them all gone, and Flora found it
out, sent the children for their walk, and carried off Ethel and the
brothers.

Dr. May was called out of the room at the same time, and she was left
alone. She gazed round her, at the room where, four months before, she
had seen her mother with the babe in her arms, the children clustered
round her, her father exulting in his hen-and-chicken daisies, herself
full of bright undefined hope, radiant with health and activity, and her
one trouble such that she now knew the force of her mother's words, that
it only proved her happiness. It was not till that moment that Margaret
realised the change; found her eyes filling with tears, as she looked
round, and saw the familiar furniture and ornaments.

They were instantly checked as she heard her father returning, but not
so that he did not perceive them, and exclaim that it had been too much
for her
said Margaret, losing the
sense of the painful vacancy in her absorbing desire not to distress her
father, and thinking only of him as she watched him standing for some
minutes leaning on the mantel-shelf with his hand shading his forehead.

She began to speak as soon as she thought he was ready to have his mind
turned away
said Dr. May
but he came and looked at her still with great solicitude
she continued, most anxious
to divert his thoughts
said the doctor
said Margaret
said the doctor
said Margaret
said Dr. May, with strong emotion
This consultation revived the spirits of both; and the others returning,
found Margaret quite disposed for companionship. If to her the evening
was sad and strange, like a visit in a dream to some old familiar haunt,
finding all unnatural, to the rest it was delightful. The room was no
longer dreary, now that there was a centre for care and attentions, and
the party was no longer broken up -- the sense of comfort, cheerfulness,
and home-gathering had returned, and the pleasant evening household
gossip went round the table almost as it used to do. Dr. May resumed
his old habit of skimming a club book, and imparting the cream to the
listeners; and Flora gave them some music, a great treat to Margaret,
who had long only heard its distant sounds.

Margaret found an opportunity of talking to Norman, and judged
favourably. He was much pleased at the prospect of the journey, and of
seeing a ship, so as to have a clearer notion of the scene where Harry's
life was to be spent, and though the charge of the arm was a drawback,
he did not treat it as insurmountable.

A few days' attendance in his father's room gave him confidence in
taking Richard's place, and, accordingly, the third important measure
was decided on, namely, that he and his father should accompany Harry
to the naval school, and be absent three nights. Some relations would be
glad to receive them in London, and Alan Ernescliffe, who was studying
steam navigation at Woolwich, volunteered to meet them, and go with them
to Portsmouth.

It was a wonderful event; Norman and Harry had never been beyond
Whitford in their lives, and none of the young ones could recollect
their papa's ever going from home for more than one night. Dr. May
laughed at Margaret for her anxiety and excitement on the subject, and
was more amused at overhearing Richard's precise directions to Norman
over the packing up
said the doctor, as he saw his portmanteau locked, and
the key given to Norman
There was a very affectionate leave-taking of Harry, who, growing rather
soft-hearted, thought it needful to be disdainful, scolded Mary and
Blanche for
and assured them they made
as much work about it as if he was going to sea at once. Then, to put
an end to any more embraces, he marched off to the station with Tom,
and nearly caused the others to be too late, by the search for him that
ensued.

In due time, Dr. May and Norman returned, looking the better for the
journey. There was, first, to tell of Harry's school and its master, and
Alan Ernescliffe's introduction of him to a nice-looking boy of his
own age; then they were eloquent on the wonders of the dockyard, the
Victory, the block machinery. And London -- while Dr. May went to transact
some business, Norman had been with Alan at the British Museum, and
though he had intended to see half London besides, there was no tearing
him away from the Elgin marbles; and nothing would serve him, but
bringing Dr. May the next morning to visit the Ninevite bulls. Norman
further said, that whereas papa could never go out of his house
without meeting people who had something to say to him, it was the same
elsewhere. Six acquaintances he had met unexpectedly in London, and two
at Portsmouth.

So the conversation went on all the evening, to the great delight of
all. It was more about things than people, though Flora inquired after
Mr. Ernescliffe, and was told he had met them at the station, had been
everywhere with them, and had dined at the Mackenzies' each day
Ethel asked; and was told pretty much the same as when
he went away; and, on a further query from Flora, it appeared that an
old naval friend of his father's had hopes of a ship, and had promised
to have him with him, and thereupon warm hopes were expressed that Harry
might have a berth in the same
said Ethel
When they went up at night, every one felt that half the say had
not been said, and there were fresh beginnings on the stairs. Norman
triumphantly gave the key to Richard, and then called to Ethel
Ethel sat on the bed, rolled up in a cloak, while Norman undid his bag,
announcing at the same time
She did
so, and instead of reading it aloud, looked at Norman full of
congratulation
and there Norman broke off from the
fullness of his heart
said Ethel presently
A silence while brother and sister both gazed intently at the crooked
characters, till at last Ethel, with a long breath, resumed her ordinary
tone, and said
said Norman, as he knelt on the floor, and tumbled
miscellaneous articles out of his bag
cried Ethel, starting up
cried Ethel eagerly
said Norman, smiling
said Norman
cried Ethel, clasping her hands
said Norman, laughing
said Ethel
said Norman
said a voice Ethel little expected
said Ethel, looking down
said Ethel interrogatively, and blushing in emulation of her
brother, who was crimson
said he, rushing off with a sort of nod and sign, that
conveyed to Ethel that there was no help for it.

So, with much confusion, she whispered into her papa's ear that Norman
had been telling her something he guessed about Mr. Ernescliffe.

Her father at first smiled, a pleased amused smile
said Ethel
said Dr. May, and Ethel was surprised to see
how sorrowful his face became. At the same moment Norman returned,
still very red, and said
The
doctor smiled again at the boy's high-minded openness, which must have
cost an effort of self-humiliation
said he
repeated Ethel vehemently
Ethel could not help
whispering.

"I'm afraid it is", said Dr. May, sighing; then, as he caught her
earnest eyes
said Ethel
Ethel sought her room, with graver, deeper thoughts of life than she had
carried upstairs
Saw ye never in the meadows,
       Where your little feet did pass,
     Down below, the sweet white daisies
       Growing in the long green grass?

     Saw you never lilac blossoms,
       Or acacia white and red,
     Waving brightly in the sunshine,
       On the tall trees over head?
                           HYMNS FOR CHILDREN, C. F. A
exclaimed Mrs. Larpent, as Meta Rivers came bounding up the broad
staircase at Abbotstoke Grange
said Mrs. Larpent, drawing her darling into a luxurious
bedroom, lighted up by a glowing fire, and full of pretty things
said Meta, tossing off her plumy hat, as she
established herself, with her feet on the fender
said
Meta, clapping her hands
said Mrs.
Larpent, smiling
said Meta
Little Meta having told her story, and received plenty of sympathy,
proceeded to dress, and, while her maid braided her hair, a musing fit
fell upon her
thought she
But little Meta watched in vain. Dr. May always came with either Richard
or the groom, to drive him, and if Meta met him and hoped he would bring
Flora next time, he only answered that Flora would like it very much,
and he hoped soon to do so.

The truth was, it was no such everyday matter as Meta imagined. The
larger carriage had been broken, and the only vehicle held only the
doctor -- his charioteer -- and in a very minute appendage behind, a small
son of the gardener, to open gates, and hold the horse.

The proposal had been one of those general invitations to be fulfilled
at any time, and therefore easily set aside; and Dr. May, though
continually thinking he should like to take his girls to Abbotstoke,
never saw the definite time for so doing; and Flora herself, though
charmed with Miss Rivers, and delighted with the prospect of visiting
her, only viewed it as a distant prospect.

There was plenty of immediate interest to occupy them at home, to say
nothing of the increasing employment that Cocksmoor gave to thoughts,
legs, and needles. There was the commencement of the half-year, when
Tom's schoolboy life was to begin, and when it would be proved whether
Norman were able to retain his elevation.

Margaret had much anxiety respecting the little boy about to be sent
into a scene of temptation. Her great confidence was in Richard, who
told her that boys did many more wrong things than were known at home,
and yet turned out very well, and that Tom would be sure to right
himself in the end. Richard had been blameless in his whole school
course, but though never partaking of the other boys' evil practices,
he could not form an independent estimate of character, and his tone had
been a little hurt, by sharing the school public opinion of morality. He
thought Stoneborough and its temptations inevitable, and only wished to
make the best of it. Margaret was afraid to harass her father by laying
the case before him. All her brothers had gone safely through the
school, and it never occurred to her that it was possible that, if her
father knew the bias of Tom's disposition, he might choose, for the
present, at least, some other mode of education.

She talked earnestly to Tom, and he listened impatiently. There is an
age when boys rebel against female rule, and are not yet softened by the
chivalry of manhood, and Tom was at this time of life. He did not like
to be lectured by a sister, secretly disputed her right, and, proud of
becoming a schoolboy, had not the generous deference for her weakness
felt by his elder brothers; he was all the time peeling a stick, as
if to show that he was not attending, and he raised up his shoulder
pettishly whenever she came to a mention of the religious duty of
sincerity. She did not long continue her advice, and, much disappointed
and concerned, tried to console herself with hoping that he might have
heeded more than he seemed to do.

He was placed tolerably high in the school, and Norman, who had the
first choice of fags, took him instead of Hector Ernescliffe, who had
just passed beyond the part of the school liable to be fagged. He said
he liked school, looked bright when he came home in the evenings, and
the sisters hoped all was right.

Every one was just now anxiously watching Norman, especially his father,
who strove in vain to keep back all manifestation of his earnest desire
to see him retain his post. Resolutely did the doctor refrain from
asking any questions, when the boys came in, but he could not keep his
eyes from studying the face, to see whether it bore marks of mental
fatigue, and from following him about the room, to discover whether he
found it necessary, as he had done last autumn, to spend the evening in
study. It was no small pleasure to see him come in with his hand full of
horse-chestnut and hazel-buds, and proceed to fetch the microscope and
botany books, throwing himself eagerly into the study of the wonders
of their infant forms, searching deeply into them with Margaret, and
talking them over with his father, who was very glad to promote the
pursuit -- one in which he had always taken great interest.

Another night Dr. May was for a moment disturbed by seeing the
school-books put out, but Norman had only some notes to compare, and
while he did so, he was remarking on Flora's music, and joining in the
conversation so freely as to prove it was no labour to him. In truth,
he was evidently quite recovered, entirely himself again, except that he
was less boyish. He had been very lively and full of merry nonsense; but
his ardour for play had gone off with his high spirits, and there was
a manliness of manner, and tone of mind, that made him appear above his
real age.

At the end of a fortnight he volunteered to tell his father that all
was right
he said
said Dr. May, much rejoiced
said Norman
said Norman; then added
said the doctor warmly
said Norman
said Norman
After a silence, Norman said
said Norman
Norman coloured
Norman's rapid progress affected another of the household in an
unexpected way
said Miss Winter,
reappearing when Margaret thought every one was gone out walking.
She would have said
so ominous was the
commencement -- and her expectations were fulfilled when Miss Winter had
solemnly seated herself, and taken out her netting
said the governess
said Margaret
Margaret knew how Miss Winter often tried Ethel's temper, and was
inclined to take her sister's part
she said
This was a new idea to Margaret, who was silent, longing to prove
Miss Winter wrong, and not have to see poor Ethel pained by having to
relinquish any of her cherished pursuits
said Miss Winter
thought Margaret
continued Miss Winter
Margaret was silent
said Miss Winter
said Margaret
continued Miss
Winter
said Margaret
disconsolately
said Miss Winter
said Margaret, who was at that moment,
though Miss Winter did not know it, re-gathering a poor child's frock
that Ethel had galloped through with more haste than good speed
said Miss Winter
And Miss Winter opened a French exercise-book, certainly containing
anything but elegant specimens of penmanship. Ethel's best writing was
an upright, disjointed niggle, looking more like Greek than anything
else, except where here and there it made insane efforts to become
running-hand, and thereby lost its sole previous good quality of
legibility, while the lines waved about the sheet in almost any
direction but the horizontal. The necessity she believed herself under
of doing what Harry called writing with the end of her nose, and
her always holding her pen with her fingers almost in the ink, added
considerably to the difficulty of the performance. This being at her
best, the worst may be supposed to be indescribable, when dashed off in
a violent hurry, and considerably garnished with blots. Margaret thought
she had seen the worst, and was sighing at being able to say nothing for
it, when Miss Winter confounded her by turning a leaf, and showing it
was possible to make a still wilder combination of scramble, niggle,
scratch, and crookedness -- and this was supposed to be an amended
edition! Miss Winter explained that Ethel had, in an extremely short
time, performed an exercise in which no fault could be detected except
the writing, which was pronounced to be too atrocious to be shown up to
M. Ballompre. On being desired to write it over again, she had obeyed
with a very bad grace, and some murmurs about Cocksmoor, and produced
the second specimen, which, in addition to other defects, had some
elisions from arrant carelessness, depriving it of its predecessor's
merits of being good French.

Miss Winter had been so provoked that she believed this to be an effect
of ill temper, and declared that she should certainly have kept Ethel at
home to write it over again, if it had not so happened that Dr. May had
proposed to walk part of the way with her and Richard, and the governess
was unwilling to bring her into disgrace with him. Margaret was so
grateful to her for this forbearance, that it disposed her to listen
the more patiently to the same representations put in, what Miss Winter
fancied, different forms. Margaret was much perplexed. She could not but
see much truth in what Miss Winter said, and yet she could not bear
to thwart Ethel, whom she admired with her whole heart; and that dry
experience, and prejudiced preciseness, did not seem capable of entering
into her sister's thirst for learning and action. When Miss Winter said
Ethel would grow up odd, eccentric, and blue, Margaret was ready to
answer that she would be superior to every one; and when the governess
urged her to insist on Cocksmoor being given up, she felt impatient of
that utter want of sympathy for the good work.

All that evening Margaret longed for a quiet time to reflect, but it
never came till she was in bed; and when she had made up her mind how to
speak to Ethel, it was five times harder to secure her alone. Even when
Margaret had her in the room by herself, she looked wild and eager, and
said she could not stay, she had some Thucydides to do
said Margaret
said Ethel
cried Ethel
vehemently
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel, in an injured, unconvinced
voice
said Margaret
and her eyes filled with tears
said Margaret; but Ethel continued, in a
piteous tone, a little sentimental
Ethel looked very much mortified
said Margaret kindly
said Ethel
said Ethel
Ethel was silent, and large tears were gathering
said Ethel faintly
Margaret was wise enough not to press her, and she sat down and sighed
pitifully. Presently she said
Ethel made two or three great gulps
said Margaret
said Ethel, much relieved
she added, looking a
little melancholy.

But Norman had not by any means the sort of sentiment on the subject
that she had
said he
Ethel did not like anything to be said to be too hard for her, and was
very near pleading she only wanted time, but some recollection came
across her, and presently she said
said Norman
This argument from Norman himself did much to reconcile Ethel's mind to
the sacrifice she had made; and when she went to bed, she tried to work
out the question in her own mind, whether her eagerness for classical
learning was a wrong sort of ambition, to know what other girls did not,
and whether it was right to crave for more knowledge than was thought
advisable for her. She only bewildered herself, and went to sleep before
she had settled anything, but that she knew she must make all give way
to papa first, and, secondly, to Cocksmoor.

Meanwhile Margaret had told her father all that had passed. He was
only surprised to hear that Ethel had kept up so long with Norman, and
thought that it was quite right that she should not undertake so much,
agreeing more entirely than Margaret had expected with Miss Winter's
view, that it would be hurtful to body as well as mind
he said
said Margaret
said Dr. May emphatically
Ethel would have thought her sacrifice well paid for, had she seen her
father's look of mournful pleasure
O ruthful scene! when from a nook obscure,
     His little sister doth his peril see,
     All playful as she sate, she grows demure,
     She finds full soon her wonted spirits flee,
     She meditates a prayer to set him free.
                                          SHENSTONE.


The setting sun shone into the great west window of the school at
Stoneborough, on its bare walls, the masters' desks, the forms polished
with use, and the square, inky, hacked and hewed chests, carved with the
names of many generations of boys.

About six or eight little boys were clearing away the books or papers
that they, or those who owned them as fags, had left astray, and a good
deal of talk and laughing was going on among them
exclaimed one
and, standing by the third master's desk, he turned
over a page or two of Smith's 'Antiquities', exclaiming, "It is full of
pictures -- here's an old man blowing the bellows --"

"Let me see!" cried Tom May, precipitating himself across the benches
and over the desk, with so little caution, that there was an outcry;
and, to his horror, he beheld the ink spilled over Mr. Harrison's book,
while, "There, August! you've been and done it!" "You'll catch it!"
 resounded on all sides.

"What good will staring with your mouth open do!" exclaimed Edward
Anderson, the eldest present. "Here! a bit of blotting-paper this
moment!"

Tom, dreadfully frightened, handed a sheet torn from an old paper-case
that he had inherited from Harry, saying despairingly
said the bewildered Tom
cried another boy
Anderson hastily shut the book over the blotting-paper, which he did not
venture to retain in his hand, dragged Tom down from the desk, and
was apparently entirely occupied with arranging his own box, when Mr.
Harrison came in. Tom crouched behind the raised lid, quaking in every
limb, conscious he ought to confess, but destitute of resolution to do
so, and, in a perfect agony as the master went to his desk, took up the
book, and carried it away, so unconscious, that Larkins, a great wag,
only waited till his back was turned, to exclaim
said Edward Anderson, shaking him by the ear
gasped Tom
There was a laugh all round at this
said Larkins
Tom shrank and looked abject, clinging to the hope that Mr. Harrison
would not open the book for weeks, months, or years.

But the next morning his heart died within him, when he beheld the
unfortunate piece of blotting-paper, displayed by Mr. Harrison, with the
inquiry whether any one knew to whom it belonged, and what made it worse
was, that his sight would not reach far enough to assure him whether
Harry's name was on it, and he dreaded that Norman or Hector Ernescliffe
should recognise the nautical designs. However, both let it pass, and
no one through the whole school attempted to identify it. One danger was
past, but the next minute Mr. Harrison opened his Smith's 'Antiquities'
at the page where stood the black witness. Tom gazed round in despair,
he could not see his brother's face, but Edward Anderson, from the
second form, returned him a glance of contemptuous encouragement.

"This book," said Mr. Harrison, "was left in school for a quarter of an
hour yesterday. When I opened it again, it was in this condition. Do any
of you know how it happened?" A silence, and he continued, "Who was in
school at this time? Anderson junior, can you tell me anything of it?"

"No, sir."

"You know nothing of it?"

"No, sir."

Cold chills crept over Tom, as Mr. Harrison looked round to refresh his
memory
said Larkins boldly, satisfying his conscience because he had
not seen the manner of the overthrow
Tom's timid heart fluttered in dim hope that he had been overlooked, as
Mr. Harrison paused, then said
he added,
hopefully and kindly
Tom coloured and turned pale. Anderson and Larkins grimaced at him, to
remind him that they had told untruths for his sake, and that he must
not betray them. It was the justification he wanted; he was relieved
to fancy himself obliged to tell the direct falsehood, for which a long
course of petty acted deceits had paved the way, for he was in deadly
terror of the effects of truth
He could hardly believe he had said the words, or that they
would be so readily accepted, for Mr. Harrison had only the impression
that he knew who the guilty person was, and would not tell, and,
therefore, put no more questions to him, but, after a few more vain
inquiries, was baffled, and gave up the investigation.

Tom thought he should have been very unhappy; he had always heard that
deceit was a heavy burden, and would give continual stings, but he was
surprised to find himself very comfortable on the whole, and able to
dismiss repentance as well as terror. His many underhand ways with
Richard had taken away the tenderness of his conscience, though his
knowledge of what was right was clear; and he was quite ready to accept
the feeling prevalent at Stoneborough, that truth was not made for
schoolboys.

The axiom was prevalent, but not universal, and parties were
running high. Norman May, who as head boy had, in play-hours, the
responsibility, and almost the authority of a master, had taken higher
ground than was usual even with the well-disposed; and felt it his duty
to check abuses and malpractices that his predecessors had allowed. His
friend, Cheviot, and the right-minded set, maintained his authority
with all their might; but Harvey Anderson regarded his interference as
vexatious, always took the part of the offenders, and opposed him in
every possible way, thus gathering as his adherents not only the idle
and mischievous, but the weak and mediocre, and, among this set,
there was a positive bitterness of feeling to May, and all whom they
considered as belonging to him.

In shielding Tom May and leading him to deceive, the younger Anderson
had gained a conquest -- in him the Mays had fallen from that pinnacle
of truth which was a standing reproach to the average Stoneborough
code -- and, from that time, he was under the especial patronage of his
friend. He was taught the most ingenious arts of saying a lesson without
learning it, and of showing up other people's tasks; whispers and signs
were directed to him to help him out of difficulties, and he was sought
out and put forward whenever a forbidden pleasure was to be enjoyed by
stealth. These were his stimulants under a heavy bondage; he was teased
and frightened, bullied and tormented, whenever it was the fancy of Ned
Anderson and his associates to make his timidity their sport; he
was scorned and ill-treated, and driven, by bodily terror, into acts
alarming to his conscience, dangerous in their consequences, and painful
in the perpetration; and yet, among all his sufferings, the little
coward dreaded nothing so much as truth, though it would have set him
free at once from this wretched tyranny.

Excepting on holidays, and at hours when the town-boys were allowed to
go home, there were strict rules confining all except the sixth form
to their bounds, consisting of two large courts, and an extensive field
bordered by the river and the road. On the opposite side of the
bridge was a turnpike gate, where the keeper exposed stalls of various
eatables, very popular among the boys, chiefly because they were not
allowed to deal there. Ginger-beer could also be procured, and
there were suspicions that the bottles so called contained something
contraband
said Norman, as they were coming home from school one evening
Tom would not answer
said Tom
Tom was in hopes it was over, but Norman went on
But,
receiving no answer, he went on
This startled Tom, but Norman
had no suspicion
Tom would say nothing, only reflecting that his elder brother was harder
upon him than any one else would be, and Norman grew warmer
said Tom, so doggedly, that Norman lost patience,
and spoke with more displeasure
So the warning closed -- Tom more alarmed at the aspect of right, which he
fancied terrific, and Norman with some compunction at having lost temper
and threatened, when he meant to have gained him by kindness.

Norman recollected his threat with a qualm of dismay when, at the end of
the week, as he was returning from a walk with Cheviot, Tom darted out
of the gate-house. He was flying across the bridge, with something under
his arm, when Norman laid a detaining hand on his collar, making a sign
at the same time to Cheviot to leave them
said Norman sternly, marching Tom into the
field
and he tried to squeeze it under the
flap
Norman seized it, and gave Tom a fierce angry shake, but the indignation
was mixed with sorrow
Tom cowered, but felt only terror
said Norman, ready to shake it out of him
Under those eyes, flashing with generous, sorrowful wrath, he dared
not utter another falsehood, but Anderson's threats chained him, and he
preferred his thraldom to throwing himself on the mercy of his brother
who loved him. He would not speak
said Norman
cried the boy
said Norman, disdainfully
said Norman
Tom cried, sobbed, and
implored in vain
he said
Tom roared and struggled, till, releasing
him, he said
he added more kindly, while Tom went
on crying, and turning from him
and he pulled down his hands
Very different this from Tom's chosen associates; but he was still
obdurate, sullen, and angry, and would not speak, nor open his heart to
those kind words. After one more
Norman took up the bottle, opened it, smelled,
and tasted, and was about to throw it into the river; when Tom
exclaimed
and the bottle splashed in the river
But Tom's evil spirit whispered that Norman had beaten him, that he
should never have any diversion again, and that Anderson would punish
him; and there was a sort of satisfaction in seeing that his perverse
silence really distressed his brother
said Norman, and he walked thoughtfully on, looking back to
see whether Tom was following, as he did slowly, meditating on the way
how he should avert his tyrant's displeasure.

Norman stood for a moment at the door, surveying the court, then walked
up to a party of boys, and laid his hand on the shoulder of one, holding
a silver fourpence to him
said he
Leaving Anderson to himself he looked for Tom, but not seeing him,
he entered the cloister, for it was the hour when he was used to read
there, but he could not fix his mind. He went to the bench where he had
lain on the examination day, and kneeling on it, looked out on the green
grass where the graves were
he murmured
Norman covered his face with his hands, and a fit of bitter grief
came over him. But his sorrow was now not what it had been before his
father's resignation had tempered it, and soon it turned to prayer,
resolution, and hope.

He would try again to reason quietly with him, when the alarm of
detection and irritation should have gone off, and he sought for the
occasion; but, alas! Tom had learned to look on all reproof as
and considered it as an additional injury from a brother, who, according
to the Anderson view, should have connived at his offences, and turned
a deafened ear and dogged countenance to all he said. The foolish boy
sought after the Andersons still more, and Norman became more dispirited
about him, greatly missing Harry, that constant companion and follower,
who would have shared his perplexities, and removed half of them, in his
own part of the school, by the influence of his high, courageous, and
truthful spirit.

In the meantime Richard was studying hard at home, with greater
hopefulness and vigour than he had ever thrown into his work before
Ethel had once said to him
said Richard, smiling at the presumption of the scheme, and
yet it formed itself into a sort of definite hope. Perhaps they might
persuade Mr. Ramsden to take him as a curate with a view to Cocksmoor,
and this prospect, vague as it was, gave an object and hope to his
studies. Every one thought the delay of his examination favourable
to him, and he now read with a determination to succeed. Dr. May had
offered to let him read with Mr. Harrison but Richard thought he was
getting on pretty well, with the help Norman gave him; for it appeared
that ever since Norman's return from London, he had been assisting
Richard, who was not above being taught by a younger brother; while, on
the other hand, Norman, much struck by his humility, would not for the
world have published that he was fit to act as his elder's tutor.

One evening, when the two boys came in from school, Tom gave a great
start, and, pulling Mary by the sleeve, whispered
A little reassured, Tom took up an exciting story-book, and ensconced
himself by the fire, but his agonies were great during the ensuing
conversation
Ethel was exclaiming in delight
said Norman, standing
behind her, and turning the leaves, in search of a favourite
said Flora, from the opposite side of
the table
said Ethel
While Ethel spoke she opened the marked page, to show the extent of the
calamity, and as she did so Mary exclaimed
Tom shrank into nothing, set his teeth, and pinched his fingers, ready
to wish they were on Mary's throat, more especially as the words made
some sensation. Richard and Margaret exchanged looks, and their father,
who had been reading, sharply raised his eyes and said
said she, all unconscious
said Ethel
said Mary, much amused and delighted
with these relics of her beloved Harry
Poor Mary's honest wits did not jump to a conclusion quite so fast as
other people's, and she little knew what she was doing when, as a great
discovery, she exclaimed
exclaimed his father, suddenly and angrily
muttered the miserable Tom, twisting his hands. A dead silence
of consternation fell on all the room. Mary gazed from one to the other,
mystified at the effect of her words, frightened at her father's loud
voice, and at Tom's trembling confusion. The stillness lasted for
some moments, and was first broken by Flora, as if she had caught at
a probability
said the doctor, in a voice not loud, but trembling
with anxiety; then laying his hand on his shoulder
Tom hung his head, and his father put his hand under his chin, and
raised the pale terrified face
Tom had been attempting his former system of silent sullenness, but
there was anger at Mary, and fear of his father to agitate him, and in
his impatient despair at thus being held and questioned, he burst out
into a violent fit of crying
said Dr. May
But Tom, who seemed fairly out of himself, would not stir, and a
screaming and kicking scene took place, before he was carried into the
study by his brothers, and there left with his father. Mary, meantime,
dreadfully alarmed, and perceiving that, in some way, she was the cause,
had thrown herself upon Margaret, sobbing inconsolably, as she begged to
know what was the matter, and why papa was angry with Tom -- had she made
him so?

Margaret caressed and soothed her to the best of her ability, trying
to persuade her that, if Tom had done wrong, it was better for him it
should be known, and assuring her that no one could think her unkind,
nor a tell-tale; then dismissing her to bed, and Mary was not unwilling
to go, for she could not bear to meet Tom again, only begging in a
whisper to Ethel
sighed Ethel, as the door closed
on Mary
said Flora
said Ethel, looking in Norman's
face, as if she hardly ventured to put the question, and she only
received sorrowful signs as answers. At the same moment Dr. May called
him. No one spoke. Margaret rested her head on the sofa, and looked
very mournful, Richard stood by the fire without moving limb or feature,
Flora worked fast, and Ethel leaned back on an arm-chair, biting the end
of a paper-knife.

The doctor and Norman came back together
said Dr. May
said Margaret
said Dr. May indignantly
cried Flora
said Norman
exclaimed the doctor, too
keenly grieved to be just
Norman's colour rose with the extreme pain this unjust accusation caused
him, and his voice, though low, was not without irritation
interrupted his father
Here no one could see Norman's burning cheeks, and brow bent downwards
in the effort to keep back an indignant reply, without bursting out in
exculpation; and Richard looked up, while the three sisters all at once
began
and left Margaret to finish
said Margaret
put in Richard; and she continued
said Dr. May, though speaking to her much more softly than to Norman, to
whom he turned angrily again
said Norman, speaking with difficulty
said the doctor
said Margaret, in great
concern
said her father affectionately
and he put his hand
over his face, and then came the sighing groan, which pained Margaret
ten thousand times more than reproaches, and which, in an instant,
dispersed all the indignation burning within Norman, though the pain
remained at his father's thinking him guilty of neglect, but he did not
like, at that moment, to speak in self-justification.

After a short space, Dr. May desired to hear what were the deceptions
to which Margaret had alluded, and made Norman tell what he knew of the
affair of the blotted book. Ethel spoke hopefully when she had heard it
said Dr. May
said Margaret; for she guessed, what indeed was the case,
that the doctor's anger on this first shock of the discovery of the
fault he most abhorred had been so great, that a fearful cowering spirit
would be completely overwhelmed; and, as there had been no sorrow shown
for the fault, there had been none of that softening and relenting that
won so much love and confidence.

Every one felt that talking only made them more unhappy, they tried to
return to their occupations, and so passed the time till night. Then, as
Richard was carrying Margaret upstairs, Norman lingered to say
said Norman, anxious to turn from the real loss
and grief, as well as to talk away that feeling of being apologised to
answered Norman
cheerfully
murmured the
doctor to himself
Margaret had so bad a headache the next day that she could not come
downstairs. The punishment was, they heard, a flogging at the time, and
an imposition so long, that it was likely to occupy a large portion
of the play-hours till the end of the half-year. His father said, and
Norman silently agreed
but Margaret only wished she could learn it for him, and took
upon herself all the blame from beginning to end. She said little to her
father, for it distressed him to see her grieved; he desired her not to
dwell on the subject, caressed her, called her his comfort and support,
and did all he could to console her, but it was beyond his power; her
sisters, by listening to her, only made her worse
she exclaimed
said Richard quietly
This took Margaret by surprise
said Richard
said Margaret
said Richard
said
Richard, in his sober tone
exclaimed Margaret
said Richard
said Richard
said Margaret
said Richard
His deliberate common-sense made her laugh a little, and she owned he
might be right
sighed Margaret
said Richard
And Margaret allowed his reasonableness, and let herself be comforted.
After all, Richard's solid soberness had more influence over her than
anything else
Think how simple things and lowly,
       Have a part in Nature's plan,
     How the great hath small beginnings,
       And the child will be a man.
     Little efforts work great actions,
       Lessons in our childhood taught
     Mould the spirit of that temper
       Whereby blessed deeds are wrought.
     Cherish, then, the gifts of childhood,
       Use them gently, guard them well,
     For their future growth and greatness
       Who can measure, who can tell!
                                    MORAL SONGS.


The first shock of Tom's misdemeanour passed away, though it still gave
many an anxious thought to such of the family as felt responsible for
him.

The girls were busily engaged in preparing an Easter feast for
Cocksmoor. Mr. Wilmot was to examine the scholars, and buns and tea were
provided, in addition to which Ethel designed to make a present to every
one -- a great task, considering that the Cocksmoor funds were reserved
for absolute necessaries, and were at a very low ebb. So that
twenty-five gifts were to be composed out of nothing!

There was a grand turn-out of drawers of rubbish, all over Margaret,
raising such a cloud of dust as nearly choked her. What cannot rubbish
and willing hands effect! Envelopes and wafer boxes were ornamented with
pictures, bags, needle-cases, and pincushions, beautiful balls, tippets,
both of list and gay print, and even sun-bonnets and pinafores were
contrived, to the supreme importance and delight of Mary and Blanche,
who found it as good or better than play, and ranged their performances
in rows, till the room looked like a bazaar. To provide for boys was
more difficult; but Richard mended old toys, and repaired the frames of
slates, and Norman's contribution of half-a-crown bought mugs, marbles,
and penny knives, and there were even hopes that something would remain
for bodkins, to serve as nozzles to the bellows, which were the pride of
Blanche's heart.

Never were Easter gifts the source of more pleasure to the givers,
especially when the nursery establishment met Dr. Hoxton near the
pastrycook's shop, and he bestowed on Blanche a packet of variegated
sugar-plums, all of which she literally poured out at Ethel's feet,
saying
After this, Margaret declared that Blanche must be allowed to buy the
bodkin, and give her bellows to Jane Taylor, the only Cocksmoor child
she knew, and to whom she always destined in turn every gift that she
thought most successful.

So Blanche went with Flora to the toy-shop, and there fell in love with
a little writing-box, that so eclipsed the bellows, that she tried to
persuade Flora to buy it for Jane Taylor, to be kept till she could
write, and was much disappointed to hear that it was out of the
question. Just then a carriage stopped, and from it stepped the pretty
little figure of Meta Rivers
kissing her
This was all uttered in eager delight, and Flora, equally pleased,
answered the inquiries
proceeded Meta
asked Flora
The price of the doll was a shilling, and there were quickly added to
it, boxes of toys, elaborate bead-work pincushions, polished blue and
green boxes, the identical writing-case -- even a small Noah's ark. Meta
hardly asked the prices, which certainly were not extravagant, since she
had nearly twenty articles for little more than a pound
said she
She departed, and Flora returned to her own business; but Blanche's
interest was gone. Dazzled by the more lavish gifts, she looked
listlessly and disdainfully at bodkins, three for twopence
said she, as soon
as they came out
Flora was interrupted by meeting the Misses Anderson, who asked
said Flora, resolved to show that
she was acquainted
Flora
thought there was no need to tell that the only call had been owing to
the rain, and continued
said Flora
Flora had a little uneasiness in her conscience, but it was satisfactory
to have put down Louisa Anderson, who never could aspire to an intimacy
with Miss Rivers. Her little sister looked up
And Blanche showed that the practical lesson on the pomps of the world
was not lost on her, by beginning to wish they were as rich as Miss
Rivers. Flora told her it was wrong to be discontented, but the answer
was
And her mind could not be turned from the thought by any attempt of her
sister. Even when they met Dr. May coming out of the hospital, Blanche
renewed the subject. She poured out the catalogue of Miss Rivers's
purchases, making appealing attempts at looking under his spectacles
into his eyes, and he perfectly understood the tenor of her song
said he
Blanche clasped her papa's hand tight, and bounded five or six times
said she
said the doctor
Then thinking
on, and speaking to Flora
Flora never was at ease in a conversation with her father; she could
not follow him, and did not like to show it. She answered aside from the
mark
said Flora
said Flora
Flora was glad of the interruption, the conversation was uncomfortable
to her. She almost fancied her papa was moralising for their good, but
that he carried it too far, for wealthy people assuredly had it in their
power to do great things, and might work as hard themselves; besides, it
was finer in them, there was so much eclat in their stooping to charity.
But her knowledge of his character would not allow her to think for a
moment that he could say aught but from the bottom of his heart -- no, it
was one of his one-sided views that led him into paradox
and so there was no need to attend to it. It was one of
his enthusiasms, he was so very fond of Ethel, probably because of her
likeness to himself. Flora thought Ethel put almost too forward -- they
all helped at Cocksmoor, and Ethel was very queer and unformed, and
could do nothing by herself. The only thing Flora did keep in her mind
was, that her papa had spoken to her, as if she were a woman compared
with Ethel.

Little Blanche made her report of the conversation to Mary
Margaret, who overheard the exposition, thought it so much to Blanche's
credit, that she could not help repeating it in the evening, after the
little girl was gone to bed, when Mr. Wilmot had come in to arrange
the programme for Cocksmoor. So the little fit of discontent and its
occasion, the meeting with Meta Rivers, were discussed
said Mr. Wilmot
asked the doctor
said the doctor
said Norman aside to Ethel
began Ethel
said Dr. May
said Dr.
May
said Mr. Wilmot
said Margaret, smiling
said Mr. Wilmot
Flora felt as if her father must be thinking his morning's argument
confirmed, and she was annoyed. But she thought there was no reason why
wealth should not be used sensibly, and if she were at the head of such
an establishment as the Grange, her charity should be so well regulated
as to be the subject of general approbation.

She wanted to find some one else on her side, and, as they went to bed,
she said to Ethel
said Flora
But Flora had to go down to Margaret's room to bed. Flora was always
ready to throw herself into the present, and liked to be the most
useful person in all that went forward, so that no thoughts of greatness
interfered with her enjoyment at Cocksmoor.

The house seemed wild that Easter Monday morning. Ethel, Mary, and
Blanche, flew about in all directions, and in spite of much undoing of
their own arrangements, finished their preparations so much too early,
that, at half-past eleven, Mary complained that she had nothing to do,
and that dinner would never come.

Many were the lamentations at leaving Margaret behind, but she answered
them by talking of the treat of having papa all to herself, for he had
lent them the gig, and promised to stay at home all the afternoon with
her.

The first division started on foot directly after dinner, the real
Council of education, as Norman called them, namely, Mr. Wilmot,
Richard, Ethel, and Mary; Flora, the other member, waited to take care
of Blanche and Aubrey, who were to come in the gig, with the cakes,
tea-kettles, and prizes, driven by Norman. Tom and Hector Ernescliffe
were invited to join the party, and many times did Mary wish for Harry.

Supremely happy were the young people as they reached the common, and
heard the shout of tumultuous joy, raised by their pupils, who were on
the watch for them. All was now activity. Everybody tripped into Mrs.
Green's house, while Richard and Ethel ran different ways to secure that
the fires were burning, which they had hired, to boil their kettles,
with the tea in them.

Then when the kitchen was so full that it seemed as if it could hold no
more, some kind of order was produced, the children were seated on their
benches, and, while the mothers stood behind to listen, Mr. Wilmot began
to examine, as well as he could in so crowded an audience.

There was progress. Yes, there was. Only three were as utterly rude
and idealess as they used to be at Christmas. Glimmerings had dawned
on most, and one -- Una M'Carthy -- was fit to come forward to claim Mr.
Wilmot's promise of a Prayer-book. She could really read and say the
Catechism -- her Irish wit and love of learning had outstripped all the
rest -- and she was the pride of Ethel's heart, fit, now, to present
herself on equal terms with the Stoneborough set, as far as her sense
was concerned -- though, alas! neither present nor exhortation had
succeeded in making her anything, in looks, but a picturesque
tatterdemalion, her sandy elf locks streaming over a pair of eyes, so
dancing and gracieuses, that it was impossible to scold her.

With beating heart, as if her own success in life depended for ever
on the way her flock acquitted themselves, Ethel stood by Mr. Wilmot,
trying to read answers coming out of the dull mouths of her children,
and looking exultingly at Richard whenever some good reply was made,
especially when Una answered an unexpected question. It was too
delightful to hear how well she remembered all the history up to the
flood, and how prettily it came out in her Irish accent! That made up
for all the atrocious stupidity of others, who, after being told every
time since they had begun who gave their names, now chose to forget.

In the midst, while the assembly were listening with admiration to the
reading of the scholar next in proficiency to Una, a boy who could read
words of five letters without spelling, there was a fresh squeezing at
the door, and, the crowd opening as well as it could, in came Flora and
Blanche, while Norman's head was seen for a moment in the doorway.

Flora's whisper to Ethel was her first discovery that the closeness and
the heat of the room was nearly overpowering. Her excitement had made
all be forgotten
Mrs. Green interfered -- it had been nailed up because her husband had the
rheumatiz
asked Mary
said Ethel, in an agony
Richard and Mr. Wilmot agreed with Flora, and the party were turned out.
Ethel did own, when she was in the open air
Norman's face was a sight, as he stood holding Aubrey in his arms, to
gratify the child's impatience. The stifling den, the uncouth aspect
of the children, the head girl so very ragged a specimen, thoroughly
revolted his somewhat fastidious disposition. This was Ethel's delight!
to this she made so many sacrifices! this was all that her time and
labour had effected! He did not wish to vex her but it was more than he
could stand.

However, Ethel was too much engrossed to look for sympathy. It was a
fine spring day, and on the open space of the common the arrangements
were quickly made. The children stood in a long line, and the baskets
were unpacked. Flora and Ethel called the names, Mary and Blanche gave
the presents, and assuredly the grins, courtesies, and pulls of the
forelock they elicited, could not have been more hearty for any of Miss
Rivers's treasures. The buns and the kettles of tea followed -- it was
perfect delight to entertainers and entertained, except when Mary's
dignity was cruelly hurt by Norman's authoritatively taking a kettle out
of her hands, telling her she would be the death of herself or somebody
else, and reducing her to the mere rank of a bun distributor, which
Blanche and Aubrey could do just as well; while he stalked along with a
grave and resigned countenance, filling up the cups held out to him by
timid-looking children. Mary next fell in with Granny Hall, who had gone
into such an ecstasy over Blanche and Aubrey, that Blanche did not know
which way to look; and Aubrey, in some fear that the old woman might
intend to kiss him, returned the compliments by telling her she was
at which she laughed heartily, and uttered more
vehement benedictions.

Finally, the three best children, boys and girls, were to be made fit
to be seen, and recommended by Mr. Wilmot to the Sunday-school and
penny club at Stoneborough, and, this being proclaimed and the children
selected, the assembly dispersed, Mr. Wilmot rejoicing Ethel and
Richard by saying
Ethel's eyes beamed, and she hurried to tell Flora. Richard coloured
and gave his quiet smile, then turned to put things in order for their
return
said Norman, coming up to him
said Richard, who had many minor arrangements to
make, and would have preferred walking home independently
said
Norman, taking off his hat and passing his fingers through his hair
said the elder brother quietly
exclaimed Norman, with somewhat of the
supercilious tone that he had now and then been tempted to address to
his brother
Richard stooped to pick up a heavy basket, then smiled and said
There was no answer -- Richard was walking off with his basket, and
putting it into the carriage. Norman was not pleased with himself, but
thought it his duty to let his father know his opinion of Ethel's weekly
resort. All he wished was to avoid Ethel herself, not liking to show her
his sentiments, and he was glad to see her put into the gig with Aubrey
and Mary.

They rushed into the drawing-room, full of glee, when they came home,
all shouting their news together, and had not at first leisure to
perceive that Margaret had some tidings for them in return. Mr.
Rivers had been there, with a pressing invitation to his daughter's
school-feast, and it had been arranged that Flora and Ethel should go
and spend the day at the Grange, and their father come to dine, and
fetch them home in the evening. Margaret had been much pleased with the
manner in which the thing was done. When Dr. May, who seemed reluctant
to accept the proposal that related to himself, was called out of the
room, Mr. Rivers had, in a most kind manner, begged her to say whether
she thought it would be painful to him, or whether it might do
his spirits good. She decidedly gave her opinion in favour of the
invitation, Mr. Rivers gained his point, and she had ever since been
persuading her father to like the notion, and assuring him it need not
be made a precedent for the renewal of invitations to dine out in the
town. He thought the change would be pleasant for his girls, and had,
therefore, consented
cried Ethel, enraptured, as soon as he
came into the room
said Dr. May, who felt and looked
depressed at this taking up of the world again
said the doctor affectionately,
putting his arm around her as she stood by him
said he, with his bright, sad smile
Ethel threw herself eagerly into the history of the examination, and had
almost forgotten the invitation till she heard the front door open. Then
it was not she, but Margaret, who told Flora -- Ethel could not, as she
said, enjoy what seemed to sadden her father. Flora received it much
more calmly
said she
And, as soon as they went upstairs, Ethel began to write down the list
of prizes in her school journal, while Flora took out the best evening
frocks, to study whether the crape looked fresh enough.

The invitation was a convenient subject of conversation, for Norman had
so much to tell his sisters of the curiosities they must look for at the
Grange, that he was not obliged to mention Cocksmoor. He did not like
to mortify Ethel by telling her his intense disgust, and he knew he
was about to do what she would think a great injury by speaking to his
father on the subject; but he thought it for her real welfare, and
took the first opportunity of making to his father and Margaret a most
formidable description of Ethel's black-hole. It quite alarmed Margaret,
but the doctor smiled, saying
said Norman, with some mortification
said Dr. May, looking provoking
said Dr. May, walking off, and leaving Norman
in a state of considerable annoyance at being thus treated. He broke
out into fresh exclamations against the horrors of Cocksmoor, telling
Margaret she had no idea what a den it was
said Norman
said Norman, who had worked himself up
into great indignation
said Margaret, not quite liking
Norman's tone, though she had not much to say to his arguments
she hesitated
said Margaret, hesitating,
and feeling it her duty to say something
Norman paused, and coloured. He remembered the pain it had given him to
find himself incapable of being of use to his father, and that he had
resolved to conquer the weakness of nerve of which he was ashamed;
but he did not like to connect this with his fastidious feelings of
refinement. He would not own to himself that they were over nice, and,
at the bottom of all this justification, rankled Richard's saying, that
he who cared for such things was unfit for a clergyman. Norman's secret
thought was, it was all very well for those who could only aspire
to parish work in wretched cottages -- people who could distinguish
themselves were more useful at the university, forming minds, and
opening new discoveries in learning.

Was Norman quite proof against the consciousness of daily excelling
all his competitors? His superiority had become even more manifest
this Easter, when Cheviot and Forder, the two elder boys whom he had
outstripped, left the school, avowedly, because it was not worth
while for them to stay, since they had so little chance of the Randall
scholarship. Norman had now only to walk over the course, no one even
approaching him but Harvey Anderson.

Meta Rivers always said that fine weather came at her call, and so it
did -- glowing sunshine streaming over the shaven turf, and penetrating
even the solid masses of the great cedar.

The carriage was sent for the Misses May, and at two o'clock they
arrived. Flora, extremely anxious that Ethel should comport herself
discreetly; and Ethel full of curiosity and eagerness, the only drawback
her fears that her papa was doing what he disliked. She was not in the
least shy, and did not think about her manner enough to be troubled by
the consciousness that it had a good deal of abruptness and eagerness,
and that her short sight made her awkward. Meta met them with
outstretched hands and a face beaming with welcome
she said triumphantly, and, after her warm greeting, she
looked with some respect at the face of the Miss May who was so very
clever. It certainly was not what she expected, not at all like either
of the four sisters she had already seen -- brown, sallow, and with that
sharp long nose, and the eager eyes, and brow a little knit by the
desire to see as far as she could. It was pleasanter to look at Flora.

Ethel left the talk chiefly to Flora -- there was wonder and study enough
for her in the grounds and garden, and when Mrs. Larpent tried to enter
into conversation with her, she let it drop two or three times while
she was peering hard at a picture and trying to make out its subject.
However, when they all went out to walk to church, Ethel lighted up,
and talked, admired, and asked questions in her quick, eager way, which
interested Mrs. Larpent greatly. The governess asked after Norman, and
no more was wanted to produce a volume of histories of his successes,
till Flora turned as she walked before with Meta, saying
But some civil answer convinced Ethel that what she said was
interesting, and she would not be stopped in her account of their
anxieties on the day of the examination. Flora was pleased that Meta,
catching some words, begged to hear more, and Flora gave an account
of the matter, soberer in terms, but quietly setting Norman at a much
greater distance from all his competitors.

After church came the feast in the school. It was a large commodious
building. Meta declared it was very tiresome that it was so good inside,
it was so ugly, she should never rest till papa had built her a real
beauty. They found Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilmot in the school, with a
very nice well-dressed set of boys and girls, and -- But there is no need
to describe the roast-beef and plum-pudding
and Ethel was brilliantly happy waiting on the children, and so was
sunny-hearted Meta. Flora was too busy in determining what the Riverses
might be thinking of her and her sister to give herself up to the
enjoyment.

Ethel found a small boy looking ready to cry at an untouched slice of
beef. She examined him whether he could cut it, and at last discovered
that, as had been the case with one or two of her own brothers at the
same age, meat was repugnant to him. In her vehement manner she flew
off to fetch him some pudding, and hurrying up, as she thought, to Mr.
Charles Wilmot, who had been giving it out, she thrust her plate between
him and the dish, and had begun her explanation when she perceived it
was a stranger, and she stood, utterly discomfited, not saying
but only blushing, awkward and confused, as he spoke to
her, in a good-natured, hospitable manner, which showed her it must be
Mr. Rivers. She obtained her pudding, and, turning hastily, retreated
said Mr. Rivers, as his daughter came out of the school with
him, for, open and airy as it was, the numbers and the dinner made him
regard it as Norman had viewed the Cocksmoor room
Mr. Rivers was a great admirer of beauty, and Meta, brought up to be the
same, was disappointed, but consoled herself by admiring Flora. Ethel,
after the awkwardness was over, thought no more of the matter, but went
on in full enjoyment of the feast. The eating finished, the making of
presents commenced, and choice ones they were. The smiles of Meta and of
the children were a pretty sight, and Ethel thought she had never seen
anything so like a beneficent fairy. Mr. and Mrs. Wilmot said their
words of counsel and encouragement, and, by five o'clock, all was over
said Meta
Ethel could not think how the Wilmots could have found it in their heart
to regret the liberality of this sweet damsel, on whom she began to look
with Norman's enthusiastic admiration.

There was time for a walk round the grounds, Meta doing the honours to
Flora, and Ethel walking with Mrs. Larpent. Both pairs were very good
friends, and the two sisters admired and were charmed with the beauty
of the gardens and conservatories -- Ethel laying up a rich store of
intelligence for Margaret; but still she was not entirely happy;
her papa was more and more on her mind. He had looked dispirited
at breakfast; he had a long hard day's work before him, and she was
increasingly uneasy at the thought that it would be a painful effort to
him to join them in the evening. Her mind was full of it when she was
conducted, with Flora, to the room where they were to dress; and when
Flora began to express her delight, her answer was only that she hoped
it was not very unpleasant to papa
Ethel sighed, then began talking fast about some hints on school-keeping
which she had picked up for Cocksmoor.

Flora's glossy braids were in full order, while Ethel was still
struggling to get her plait smooth, and was extremely beholden to her
sister for taking it into her own hands and doing the best with it that
its thinness and roughness permitted. And then Flora pinched and pulled
and arranged Ethel's frock, in vain attempts to make it sit like her
own -- those sharp high bones resisted all attempts to disguise them
said Ethel meekly, though a good deal tormented, as Flora
went on with half a dozen more injunctions, closed by Meta's coming to
fetch them. Little Meta did not like to show them her own bedroom -- she
pitied them so much when she thought of the contrast. She would have
liked to put Flora's arm through her's, but she thought, it would look
neglectful of Ethel; so she only showed the way downstairs. Ethel forgot
all her sister's orders; for there stood her father, and she looked
most earnestly at his face. It was cheerful, and his voice sounded
well pleased as he greeted Meta; then resumed an animated talk with
Mr. Rivers. Ethel drew as near him as she could; she had a sense of
protection, and could open to full enjoyment when she saw him bright. At
the first pause in the conversation, the gentlemen turned to the young
ladies. Mr. Rivers began talking to Flora, and Dr. May, after a few
pleasant words to Meta, went back to Ethel. He wanted her to see
his favourite pictures -- he led her up to them, made her put on his
spectacles to see them better, and showed her their special merits. Mr.
Rivers and the others joined them; Ethel said little, except a remark
or two in answer to her papa, but she was very happy -- she felt that he
liked to have her with him; and Meta, too, was struck by the soundness
of her few sayings, and the participation there seemed to be in all
things between the father and daughter.

At dinner Ethel went on pretty well. She was next to her father, and was
very glad to find the dinner so grand, that no side-dish fell to her lot
to be carved. There was a great deal of pleasant talk, such as the girls
could understand, though they did not join much in it, except that now
and then Dr. May turned to Ethel as a reference for names and dates. To
make up for silence at dinner, there was a most confidential chatter in
the drawing-room. Flora and Meta on one side, hand in hand, calling each
other by their Christian names, Mrs. Larpent and Ethel on the other.
Flora dreaded only that Ethel was talking too much, and revealing too
much in how different style they lived. Then came the gentlemen, Dr. May
begging Mr. Rivers to show Ethel one of his prints, when Ethel stooped
more than ever, as if her eyelashes were feelers, but she was in
transports of delight, and her embarrassment entirely at an end in her
admiration, as she exclaimed and discussed with her papa, and by her
hearty appreciation made Mr. Rivers for the time forget her plainness.
Music followed; Flora played nicely, Meta like a well-taught girl; Ethel
went on musing over the engravings. The carriage was announced, and
so ended the day in Norman's fairy-land. Ethel went home, leaning hard
against her papa, talking to him of Raphael's Madonnas; and looking out
at the stars, and thinking how the heavenly beauty of those faces that,
in the prints she had been turning over, seemed to be connected with the
glories of the dark-blue sky and glowing stars
murmured she
and when she felt him press her hand, she knew he was thinking of
that last time she had heard the lesson, when he had not been with her,
and her thoughts went with his, though not another word was spoken.

Flora hardly knew when they ceased to talk. She had musings equally
engrossing of her own. She saw she was likely to be very intimate with
Meta Rivers, and she was roaming away into schemes for not letting the
intercourse drop, and hopes of being admitted to many a pleasure as yet
little within her reach -- parties, balls, London, itself, and, above all,
the satisfaction of being admired. The certainty that Mr. Rivers thought
her pretty and agreeable had gratified her all the evening, and if he,
with his refined taste, thought so, what would others think? Her
only fear was, that Ethel's awkwardness might make an unfavourable
impression, but, at least, she said to herself, it was anything but
vulgar awkwardness.

Their reflections were interrupted by the fly stopping. It was at a
little shop in the outskirts of the town, and Dr. May, explained that he
wanted to inquire for a patient. He went in for a moment, then came back
to desire that they would go home, for he should be detained some little
time. No one need sit up for him -- he would let himself in.

It seemed a comment on Ethel's thoughts, bringing them back to the
present hour. That daily work of homely mercy, hoping for nothing again,
was surely the true way of doing service
WATCHMAN. How, if he will not stand?
    DOGBERRY. Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go.
                                          Much Ado about Nothing.


Dr. May promised Margaret that he would see whether the black-hole of
Cocksmoor was all that Norman depicted it, and, accordingly, he came
home that way on Tuesday evening the next week, much to the astonishment
of Richard, who was in the act of so mending the window that it might
let in air when open, and keep it out when shut, neither of which
purposes had it ever yet answered.

Dr. May walked in, met his daughter's look of delight and surprise,
spoke cheerfully to Mrs. Green, a hospital acquaintance of his, like
half the rest of the country, and made her smile and curtsey by asking
if she was not surprised at such doings in her house; then looked at the
children, and patted the head that looked most fit to pat, inquired who
was the best scholar, and offered a penny to whoever could spell copper
tea-kettle, which being done by three merry mortals, and having made him
extremely popular, he offered Ethel a lift, and carried her off between
him and Adams, on whom he now depended for driving him, since Richard
was going to Oxford at once.

It was possible to spare him now. Dr. May's arm was as well as he
expected it ever would be; he had discarded the sling, and could use his
hand again, but the arm was still stiff and weak -- he could not stretch
it out, nor use it for anything requiring strength; it soon grew tired
with writing, and his daughters feared that it ached more than he chose
to confess, when they saw it resting in the breast of his waistcoat.
Driving he never would have attempted again, even if he could, and he
had quite given up carving -- he could better bear to sit at the side than
at the bottom of the dinner-table.

Means of carrying Margaret safely had been arranged by Richard, and
there was no necessity for longer delaying his going to Oxford, but he
was so unwillingly spared by all, as to put him quite into good spirits.
Ethel was much concerned to lose him from Cocksmoor, and dreaded
hindrances to her going thither without his escort; but she had much
trust in having her father on her side, and meant to get authority from
him for the propriety of going alone with Mary.

She did not know how Norman had jeopardised her projects, but the danger
blew over. Dr. May told Margaret that the place was clean and wholesome,
and though more smoky than might be preferred, there was nothing to do
any one in health any harm, especially when the walk there and back was
over the fresh moor. He lectured Ethel herself on opening the window,
now that she could; and advised Norman to go and spend an hour in the
school, that he might learn how pleasant peat-smoke was -- a speech Norman
did not like at all. The real touchstone of temper is ridicule on a
point where we do not choose to own ourselves fastidious, and if it and
been from any one but his father, Norman would not have so entirely kept
down his irritation.

Richard passed his examination successfully, and Dr. May wrote himself
to express his satisfaction. Nothing went wrong just now except little
Tom, who seemed to be justifying Richard's fears of the consequence of
exciting his father's anger. At home, he shrank and hesitated at the
simplest question if put by his father suddenly; and the appearance of
cowardice and prevarication displeasing Dr. May further, rendered his
tone louder, and frightened Tom the more, giving his manner an air
of sullen reserve that was most unpleasant. At school it was much
the same -- he kept aloof from Norman, and threw himself more into the
opposite faction, by whom he was shielded from all punishment, except
what they chose themselves to inflict on him.

Norman's post as head of the school was rendered more difficult by the
departure of his friend Cheviot, who had always upheld his authority;
Harvey Anderson did not openly transgress, for he had a character to
maintain, but it was well known throughout the school that there was a
wide difference between the boys, and that Anderson thought it absurd,
superfluous, and troublesome in May not to wink at abuses which appeared
to be licensed by long standing. When Edward Anderson, Axworthy, and
their set, broke through rules, it was with the understanding that the
second boy in the school would support them, if he durst.

The summer and the cricket season brought the battle of Ballhatchet's
house to issue. The cricket ground was the field close to it, and
for the last two or three years there had been a frequent custom of
despatching juniors to his house for tarts and ginger-beer bottles.
Norman knew of instances last year in which this had led to serious
mischief, and had made up his mind that, at whatever loss of popularity,
it was his duty to put a stop to the practice.

He was an ardent cricketer himself, and though the game did not, in
anticipation, seem to him to have all the charms of last year, he
entered into it with full zest when once engaged. But his eye was on all
parts of the field, and especially on the corner by the bridge, and the
boys knew him well enough to attempt nothing unlawful within the range
of that glance. However, the constant vigilance was a strain too great
to be always kept up, and he had reason to believe he was eluded more
than once.

At last came a capture, something like that of Tom, one which he could
not have well avoided making. The victim was George Larkins, the son
of a clergyman in the neighbourhood, a wild, merry varlet, who got into
mischief rather for the sake of the fun than from any bad disposition.

His look of consternation was exaggerated into a most comical
caricature, in order to hide how much of it was real
exclaimed Larkins
The boy made such absurd faces, that Norman could hardly help laughing,
though he wished to make it a serious affair
said Larkins, pretending to
look resigned
added he, with a ridiculous confidential air
said Norman
A gibbet! a gibbet" cried Larkins
They were by this time at the bridge
said Norman to his
follower, as he crossed the entrance of the little shop, the first time
he had ever been there. A little cringing shrivelled old man stood up in
astonishment
pleaded the old man, in a great fright
said Norman
and he hastily made a cork bounce, and
poured it out.

That, of course, was genuine, but Norman was
in schoolboy
phrase
No pop ensued. Larkins, enjoying the detection, put his hands on his
knees and looked wickedly up in the old man's face to see what was
coming
said Norman
added Norman
said Norman
Having extracted the money, Norman turned to leave the shop. Larkins,
triumphant
as the tutor rode by, and they
touched their caps
and he went into an ecstasy of laughing
said Norman, laughing, as he leaned
against the parapet of the bridge, and pinched the boy's ear
Larkins was charmed with the compliment
Larkins pinched his fingers; home was a string that could touch him, but
it seemed beneath him to own it. At that moment a carriage approached,
the boy's whole face lighted up, and he jumped forward
he
cried
She was, of course, his mother; and Norman, though turning hastily away
that his presence might prove no restraint, saw the boy fly over the
door of the open carriage, and could have sobbed at the thought of what
that meeting was
asked Mrs. Larkins, when she had obtained leave
to have her boy with her, while she did her shopping
said Larkins sincerely, though by no means
troubling himself as to the appropriateness of the eulogy, nor thinking
it necessary to explain to his mother the terms of the conversation.

It was not fruitless; Larkins did avoid mischief when it was not
extremely inviting, was more amenable to May senior, and having been put
in mind by him of his home, was not ashamed to bring the thought to the
aid of his eyes, when, on Sunday, during a long sermon of Mr. Ramsden's,
he knew that Axworthy was making the grimace which irresistibly incited
him to make a still finer one.

And Ballhatchet was so much convinced of "that there young May" being in
earnest, that he assured his persuasive customers that it was as much as
his licence was worth to supply them.

Evil and insubordination were more easily kept under than Norman had
expected, when he first made up his mind to the struggle. Firmness had
so far carried the day, and the power of manful assertion of the right
had been proved, contrary to Cheviot's parting auguries, that he would
only make himself disliked, and do no good.

The whole of the school was extremely excited this summer by a
proceeding of Mr. Tomkins, the brewer, who suddenly closed up the
footway called Randall's Alley, declaring that there was no right of
passage through a certain field at the back of his brewery. Not only the
school, but the town was indignant, and the Mays especially so. It
had been the doctor's way to school forty years ago, and there were
recollections connected with it that made him regard it with personal
affection. Norman, too, could not bear to lose it; he had not entirely
conquered his reluctance to pass that spot in the High Street, and the
loss of the alley would be a positive deprivation to him. Almost every
native of Stoneborough felt strongly the encroachment of the brewer, and
the boys, of course, carried the sentiment to exaggeration.

The propensity to public speaking perhaps added to the excitement, for
Norman May and Harvey Anderson, for once in unison, each made a vehement
harangue in the school-court -- Anderson's a fine specimen of the village
Hampden style, about Britons never suffering indignities, and free-born
Englishmen swelling at injuries
interjected Larkins, pointing to an inflamed
eye that had not returned to its right dimensions. However, Anderson
went on unmoved by the under titter, and demonstrated, to the full
satisfaction of all the audience, that nothing could be more illegal and
unfounded than the brewer's claims.

Then came a great outburst from Norman, with all his father's headlong
vehemence; the way was the right of the town, the walk had been trodden
by their forefathers for generations past -- it had been made by the good
old generous-hearted man who loved his town and townspeople, and would
have heard with shame and anger of a stranger, a new inhabitant, a
grasping radical, caring, as radicals always did, for no rights, but
for their own chance of unjust gains, coming here to Stoneborough to cut
them off from their own path. He talk of liberalism and the rights of
the poor! He who cut off Randall's poor old creatures in the almshouses
from their short way! and then came some stories of his oppression as a
poor-law guardian, which greatly aggravated the wrath of the speaker and
audience, though otherwise they did not exactly bear on the subject
finished Norman
cried a voice from the throng, probably Larkins's;
but there was no desire to investigate, it was the universal sentiment
as Larkins finally ejaculated
said Harvey Anderson
said Norman
Carried along by the general feeling, the whole troop of boys dashed
shouting up to the barricade at the entrance of the field, and levelled
it with the ground. A handkerchief was fastened to the top of one of the
stakes, and waved over the brewhouse wall, and some of the boys were
for picking up stones and dirt, and launching them over, in hopes of
spoiling the beer; but Norman put a stop to this, and brought them back
to the school-yard, still in a noisy state of exultation.

It cooled a little by-and-by under the doubt how their exploit would be
taken. At home, Norman found it already known, and his father half glad,
half vexed, enjoying the victory over Tomkins, yet a little uneasy on
his son's behalf
said he
said the doctor
said the doctor, smiling
Dr. Hoxton did not come into school at the usual hour, and, in the
course of the morning, sent for May senior, to speak to him in his
study.

He looked very broad, awful, and dignified, as he informed him that Mr.
Tomkins had just been with him to complain of the damage that had been
done, and he appeared extremely displeased that the dux should have been
no check on such proceedings
said Norman
Norman coloured a good deal, and simply answered
said Dr.
Hoxton, who was very fond of him, and did not find fault with him
willingly.

That the first inflammatory discourse had been made by Anderson did not
appear to be known -- he only came in for the general reprimand given to
the school.

It was reported the following evening, just as the town boys turned
out to go to their homes, that
exclaimed Axworthy
said Edward Anderson
said the elder Anderson
And there was a general shout and yell in reply
said Norman
Anderson could not afford to get into a scrape without May to stand
before him, and rather sulkily he assented
proceeded Norman, in his
style of popular oratory
Tom was not visible -- he generally avoided going home with his brother;
and Norman having seen the boys divide into two or three little parties,
as their roads lay homewards, found he had an hour of light for an
expedition of his own, along the bank of the river. He had taken up
botany with much ardour, and sharing the study with Margaret was a great
delight to both. There was a report that the rare yellow bog-bean grew
in a meadow about a mile and a half up the river, and thither he was
bound, extremely enjoying the summer evening walk, as the fresh dewy
coolness sunk on all around, and the noises of the town were mellowed by
distance, and the sun's last beams slanted on the green meadows, and the
May-flies danced, and dragon-flies darted, and fish rose or leaped high
in the air, or showed their spotted sides, and opened and shut their
gills, as they rested in the clear water, and the evening breeze rustled
in the tall reeds, and brought fragrance from the fresh-mown hay.

It was complete enjoyment to Norman after his day's study and the rule
and watch over the unruly crowd of boys, and he walked and wandered
and collected plants for Margaret till the sun was down, and the
grasshoppers chirped clamorously, while the fern-owl purred, and
the beetle hummed, and the skimming swallows had given place to the
soft-winged bat, and the large white owl floating over the fields as it
moused in the long grass.

The summer twilight was sobering every tint, when, as Norman crossed the
cricket-field, he heard, in the distance, a loud shout. He looked
up, and it seemed to him that he saw some black specks dancing in the
forbidden field, and something like the waving of a flag, but it was not
light enough to be certain, and he walked quickly home.

The front door was fastened, and, while he was waiting to be let in, Mr.
Harrison walked by, and called out
A good-night was the answer, as he was admitted. Every one in the
drawing-room looked up, and exclaimed as he entered
said Dr. May
A sort of instinctive dread directed Norman's steps down the open
portion of Randall's Alley, and, voices growing louder as he came
nearer, confirmed his suspicions. The fence at this end was down, and,
on entering the field, a gleam of light met his eye on the ground -- a
cloud of smoke, black figures were flitting round it, pushing brands
into red places, and feeding the bonfire
exclaimed Norman
A peal of laughter, and shout of
was the reply
asked Norman, not
solicitous to identify any one.

But gruff voices broke in upon them
said a policeman
A general hurry-skurry ensued. Norman alone, strong in innocence, walked
quietly away, and, as he came forth from the darkness of the alley,
beheld something scouring away before him, in the direction of home. It
popped in at the front door before him, but was not in the drawing-room.
He strode upstairs, called, but was not answered, and found, under the
bedclothes, a quivering mass, consisting of Tom, with all his clothes
on, fully persuaded that it was the policeman who was pursuing him
Oh Life, without thy chequered scene,
     Of right and wrong, of weal and woe,
     Success and failure, could a ground
     For magnanimity be found?
                                   WORDSWORTH.


Dr. May was called for late the next day, Friday, and spent some time
in one of the houses near the river. It was nearly eight o'clock when
he came away, and he lingered, looking towards the school, in hopes of a
walk home with his boys.

Presently he saw Norman coming out from under the archway, his cap drawn
over his face, and step, gesture, and manner betraying that something
was seriously wrong. He came up almost to his father without seeing
him, until startled by his exclamation
Norman's lips quivered, and his face was pale -- he seemed as if he could
not speak
said the doctor, much alarmed
interrupted Norman
and it was only with a gulp and struggle that he
brought out the words
The doctor started back a step or two, aghast
said Norman, recovering in the desire to reassure his
father
said the doctor, breathing freely
said Norman, with bitterness
said the doctor eagerly
exclaimed Dr. May
he was turning
Norman shortly explained the ginger-beer story, and adding
said Dr. May, pressing
Norman's arm
said Norman
Dr. May and his son felt keenly and spoke strongly. There was so much of
sympathy and fellow-feeling between them, that there was no backwardness
on Norman's part in telling his whole trouble, with more confidence than
schoolboys often show towards their fathers, and Dr. May entered into
the mortification as if he were still at school. They did not go into
the house, but walked long up and down the garden, working themselves up
into, if possible, stronger indignation, and concerting the explanation
for to-morrow, when Dr. May meant to go at once to the head-master, and
make him attend to the true version of the story, appealing to Harvey
Anderson himself, Larkins, and many others, for witnesses. There could
be hardly a doubt that Norman would be thus exculpated; but, if Dr.
Hoxton would not see things in their true light, Dr. May was ready to
take him away at once, rather than see him suffer injustice.

Still, though comforted by his father's entire reliance, Norman was
suffering severely under the sense of indignity, and grieved that Dr.
Hoxton and the other masters should have believed him guilty -- that
name of May could never again boast of being without reproach. To be in
disgrace stung him to the quick, even though undeservedly, and he could
not bear to go in, meet his sisters, and be pitied
said he, when the Minster clock pealing ten
obliged them to go indoors, and his father agreed. They bade each other
good-night, with the renewal of the promise that Dr. Hoxton should be
forced to hear Norman's vindication the first thing to-morrow, Harvey
Anderson be disappointed of what he meanly triumphed in, and Norman
be again in his post at the head of the school, in more honour and
confidence than ever, putting down evil, and making Stoneborough what it
ought to be.

As Dr. May lay awake in the summer's morning, meditating on his address
to Dr. Hoxton, he heard the unwelcome sound of a ring at the bell, and,
in a few minutes, a note was brought to him
And, in a few minutes, the doctor opened Norman's door, and found him
dressed, and standing by the window, reading
said Norman, looking
rather blank
Before another quarter of an hour had passed, they were driving through
the deep lanes, the long grass thickly laden with morning dew, which
beaded the webs of the spiders and rose in clouds of mist under the
influence of the sun's rays. There was stillness in the air at first,
then the morning sounds, the labourer going forth, the world wakening to
life, the opening houses, the children coming out to school. In spite of
the tumult of feeling, Norman could not but be soothed and refreshed
by the new and fair morning scene, and both minds quitted the school
politics, as Dr. May talked of past enjoyment of walks or drives home
in early dawn, the more delicious after a sad watch in a sick-room, and
told of the fair sights he had seen at such unwonted hours.

They had far to go, and the heat of the day had come on before they
entered the place of their destination. It was a woodland village, built
on a nook in the side of the hill, sloping greenly to the river, and
shut in by a white gate, which seemed to gather all in one the little
old-fashioned church, its yard, shaded with trees, and enclosed by long
white rails; the parsonage, covered with climbing plants and in the
midst of a gay garden; and one or two cottages. The woods cast a cool
shadow, and, in the meadows by the river rose cocks of new-made hay;
there was an air of abiding serenity about the whole place, save
that there stood an old man by the gate, evidently watching for the
physician's carriage; and where the sun fell on that parsonage-house was
a bedroom window wide open, with the curtains drawn
said the old man
Norman knew young Lake, who had been a senior boy when he first went to
school, was a Randall scholar, and had borne an excellent character,
and highly distinguished himself at the university. And now, by all
accounts, he seemed to be dying -- in the height of honour and general
esteem. Dr. May went into the house, the old man took the horse, and
Norman lingered under the trees in the churchyard, watching the white
curtains now and then puffed by the fitful summer breeze, as he lay on
the turf in the shade, under the influence of the gentle sadness
around, resting, mind and body, from the tossing tumultuous passionate
sensations that had kept him restless and miserable through the hot
night.

He waited long -- one hour, two hours had passed away, but he was not
impatient, and hardly knew how long the time had been before his father
and Mr. Lake came out of the house together, and, after they parted, Dr.
May summoned him. He of course asked first for the patient
and the reasons for having been kept so long
were detailed, with many circumstances of the youth's illness, and the
parents' resignation, by which Dr. May was still too deeply touched to
have room in his mind for anything besides.

They were more than half-way home, and a silence had succeeded the
conversation about the Lake family, when Norman spoke
exclaimed his father
Dr. May made a restless, reluctant movement
said Norman, with a sigh
muttered Dr. May
the doctor gave a considering whistle
said Norman, eagerly
Dr. May smiled a little at the simplicity with which this last was said,
but his smile ended in one of his heavy sighs
His eyes were so dazzled with tears that he could hardly see to drive,
nor did his father speak at first
half muttered
the doctor; then, after long musing
said Norman, pausing
said Dr. May
and he sighed deeply
said the doctor
Norman felt as if, while his father looked at him as he now did, the
rest of the world were nothing to him; but, perhaps, the driving past
the school brought him to a different mind, for he walked into the house
slowly and dejectedly.

He told his own story to Ethel, in the garden, not without much
difficulty, so indignant were her exclamations; and it was impossible to
make her see that his father's interference would put him in an awkward
position among the boys. She would argue vehemently that she could not
bear Mr. Wilmot to think ill of him, that it was a great shame of Dr.
Hoxton, and that it was dreadful to let such a boy as Harvey Anderson go
unpunished
That was all
the comfort she gave Norman, and she walked in to pour out a furious
grumbling upon Margaret.

Dr. May had been telling the elder ones, and they were in conversation
after he had left them -- Margaret talking with animation, and Flora
sitting over her drawing, uttering reluctant assents
asked Margaret
said Ethel
observed Flora
said Ethel
said Margaret
proceeded Flora
said Margaret
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
cried Ethel, too much shocked to bring out another word
said Margaret
quietly
stammered Ethel
said Flora
cried Ethel, recovering her
utterance
said Flora, not by any means wishing to displease her
sisters
said Margaret
broke out Ethel
said Margaret
Ethel was entirely consoled. Flora thought of the words "tete exaltee"
 and considered herself alone to have sober sense enough to see things in
a true light -- not that she went the length of believing that Norman had
any underhand motives, but she thought it very discreet in her to think
a prudent father would not have been satisfied with such a desire to
avoid investigation.

Dr. May would not trust himself to enter on the subject with Dr. Hoxton
in conversation; he only wrote a note
A long answer came in return, disclaiming all doubt of Norman's
veracity, and explaining Dr. Hoxton's grounds for having degraded him.
There had been misconduct in the school, he said, for some time past,
and he did not consider that it was any very serious reproach, to a
boy of Norman's age, that he had not had weight enough to keep up his
authority, and had been carried away by the general feeling. It had been
necessary to make an example for the sake of principle, and though very
sorry it should have fallen on one of such high promise and general good
conduct, Dr. Hoxton trusted that it would not be any permanent injury to
his prospects, as his talents had raised him to his former position in
the school so much earlier than usual
said Dr. May
What Mr. Wilmot might think was felt by all to affect them more nearly.
Ethel wanted to hear that he declared his complete conviction of
Norman's innocence, and was disappointed to find that he did not once
allude to the subject. She was only consoled by Margaret's conjecture
that, perhaps, he thought the headmaster had been hasty, and could not
venture to say so -- he saw into people's characters, and it was notorious
that it was just what Dr. Hoxton did not.

Tom had spent the chief of that Saturday in reading a novel borrowed
from Axworthy, keeping out of sight of every one. All Sunday he avoided
Norman more scrupulously than ever, and again on Monday. That day was a
severe trial to Norman; the taking the lower place, and the sense that,
excel as much as ever he might in his studies, it would not avail to
restore him to his former place, were more unpleasant, when it came to
the point, than he had expected.

He saw the cold manner, so different from the readiness with which his
tasks had always been met, certain as they were of being well done; he
found himself among the common herd whom he had passed so triumphantly,
and, for a little while, he had no heart to exert himself.

This was conquered by the strong will and self-rebuke for having merely
craved for applause, but, in the play-ground, he found himself still
alone -- the other boys who had been raised by his fall shrank from
intercourse with one whom they had injured by their silence, and the
Andersons, who were wont to say the Mays carried every tale home, and
who still almost expected interference from Dr. May, hardly believed
their victory secure, and the younger one, at least, talked spitefully,
and triumphed in the result of May's meddling and troublesome over
strictness
was the sentiment.

Norman found himself left out of everything, and stood dispirited and
weary on the bank of the river, wishing for Harry, wishing for Cheviot,
wishing that he had been able to make a friend who would stand by
him, thinking it could not be worse if he had let his father reinstate
him -- and a sensation of loneliness and injustice hung heavy at his
heart.

His first interruption was a merry voice
and Larkins's droll face was
looking up at him, from that favourite position, half stooping, his
hands on his knees, his expression of fun trying to conceal his real
anxiety and sympathy.

Norman turned and smiled, and looked for the cray-fish, and, at the same
time, became aware of Hector Ernescliffe, watching for an opportunity to
say
He knew they wanted, as far as little
boys ventured to seek after one so much their elder, to show themselves
his friends, and he was grateful; he roused himself to hear about Alan's
news, and found it was important -- his great friend, Captain Gordon, had
got a ship, and hoped to be able to take him, and this might lead to
Harry's going with him. Then Norman applied himself to the capture of
cray-fish, and Larkins grew so full of fun and drollery, that the hours
of recreation passed off less gloomily than they had begun.

If only his own brother would have been his adherent! But he saw almost
nothing of Tom. Day after day he missed him, he was off before him in
going and returning from school, and when he caught a sight of his face,
it looked harassed, pale, and miserable, stealing anxious glances after
him, yet shrinking from his eye. But, at the same time, Norman did not
see him mingling with his former friends, and could not make out how he
disposed of himself. To be thus continually shunned by his own brother,
even when the general mass were returning to ordinary terms, became
so painful, that Norman was always on the watch to seek for one more
conversation with him.

He caught him at last in the evening, just as they were going home
said he authoritatively;
and Tom obeyed in trembling.

Norman led the way to the meads
said he
he said, with pleading melancholy in his voice.

It was not needed. Tom had flung himself upon the grass, and was in an
agony of crying, even before he had finished the words
and Norman sat by him on the grass, and raised his
face by a sort of force, but the kind words only brought more piteous
sobs. It was a long time before they diminished enough to let him utter
a word, but Norman went on patiently consoling and inquiring, sure, at
least, that here had broken down the sullenness that had always repelled
him.

At last came the words
said Tom, his voice cut short by gasps, the remains
of the sobs
said Norman, from the bottom of his heart
A fresh burst
began Norman
broke in the boy passionately
He showed a dark blue-and-red stripe raised on the palm of his
hand
exclaimed Norman indignantly
said Norman
and he threw himself across his kind brother
said Norman
whispered Tom
said Tom, worn out in spirits by his long bondage, and
glad to catch at the hope of relief and protection
and Tom put his hand into his brother's, as a
few weeks back would have seemed most unworthy of schoolboy dignity.

Thenceforth Tom was devoted to Norman, and kept close to him, sure that
the instant he was from under his wing his former companions would fall
on him to revenge his defection, but clinging to him also from real
affection and gratitude. Indolence and timidity were the true root of
what had for a time seemed like a positively bad disposition; beneath,
there was a warm heart, and sense of right, which had been almost
stifled for the time, in the desire, from moment to moment, to avoid
present trouble or fear. Under Norman's care his better self had
freer scope, he was guarded from immediate terror, and kept from the
suggestions of the worse sort of boys, as much as was in his brother's
power; and the looks they cast towards him, and the sly torments they
attempted to inflict, by no means invited him back to them. The lessons,
where he had a long inveterate habit of shuffling, came under Norman's
eye at the same time. He always prepared them in his presence,
instead of in the most secret manner possible, and with all Anderson's
expeditious modes of avoiding the making them of any use. Norman sat by,
and gave such help as was fair and just, showed him how to learn, and
explained difficulties, and the ingenuity hitherto spent in eluding
learning being now directed to gaining it, he began to make real
progress and find satisfaction in it. The comfort of being good dawned
upon him once more, but still there was much to contend with; he had
acquired such a habit of prevarication that, if by any means taken by
surprise, his impulse was to avoid giving a straightforward answer,
and when he recollected his sincerity, the truth came with the air of
falsehood. Moreover, he was an arrant coward, and provoked tricks by his
manifest and unreasonable terrors. It was no slight exercise of patience
that Norman underwent, but this was the interest he had made for
himself; and the recovery of the boy's attachment, and his improvement,
though slow, were a present recompense.

Ernescliffe, Larkins, and others of the boys, held fast to him, and
after the first excitement was past, all the rest returned to their
former tone. He was decidedly as much respected as ever, and, at the
same time, regarded with more favour than when his strictness was
resented. And as for the discipline of the school, that did not suffer.
Anderson felt that, for his own credit, he must not allow the rules
to be less observed than in May's reign, and he enforced them upon the
reluctant and angry boys with whom he had been previously making common
cause. Dr. Hoxton boasted to the under-masters that the school had never
been in such good order as under Anderson, little guessing that this was
but reaping the fruits of a past victory, or that every boy in the whole
school gave the highest place in their esteem to the deposed dux.

To Anderson, Norman's cordial manner and ready support were the
strangest part of all, only explained by thinking that he deemed it, as
he tried to do himself, merely the fortune of war, and was sensible of
no injury.

And, for Norman himself, when the first shock was over, and he was
accustomed to the change, he found the cessation of vigilance a relief,
and carried a lighter heart than any time since his mother's death.
His sisters could not help observing that there was less sadness in the
expression of his eyes, that he carried his head higher, walked with
freedom and elasticity of step, tossed and flourished the Daisy till she
shouted and crowed, while Margaret shrank at such freaks; and, though he
was not much of a laugher himself, contributed much sport in the way of
bright apposite sayings to the home circle.

It was a very unexpected mode of cure for depression of spirits, but
there could be no question that it succeeded; and when, a few Saturdays
after, he drove Dr. May again to Groveswood to see young Mr. Lake,
who was recovering, he brought Margaret home a whole pile of botanical
curiosities, and drew his father into an animated battle over natural
and Linnaean systems, which kept the whole party merry with the pros and
cons every evening for a week
Oh! the golden-hearted daisies,
       Witnessed there before my youth,
     To the truth of things, with praises
       Of the beauty of the truth.-- E. B. BROWNING
The doctor threw into her lap a letter, which made her cheeks light up.

Mr. Ernescliffe wrote that his father's friend, Captain Gordon, having
been appointed to the frigate Alcestis, had chosen him as one of his
lieutenants, and offered a nomination as naval cadet for his brother. He
had replied that the navy was not Hector's destination, but, as Captain
Gordon had no one else in view, had prevailed on him to pass on the
proposal to Harry May.

Alan wrote in high terms of his captain, declaring that he esteemed the
having sailed with him as one of the greatest advantages he had ever
received, and adding that, for his own part, Dr. May needed no promise
from him to be assured that he would watch over Harry like his own
brother. It was believed that the Alcestis was destined for the South
American station
said Dr. May, with a sigh
said Margaret
The doctor sat down to write, while Margaret worked and mused, perhaps
on outfits and new shirts -- perhaps on Harry's lion-locks, beneath a blue
cap and gold band, or, perchance, on the coral shoals of the Pacific.

It was one of the quiet afternoons, when all the rest were out, and
which the doctor and his daughter especially valued, when they were able
to spend one together without interruption. Soon, however, a ring at
the door brought an impatient exclamation from the doctor; but his smile
beamed out at the words
They were great friends; in
fact, on terms of some mutual sauciness, though Meta was, as yet, far
less at home with his daughters, and came in, looking somewhat shy
was the doctor's reception
asked Meta
said Margaret
said Meta timidly
said Dr. May
said Meta
said Dr. May
said the doctor
exclaimed Margaret
said Meta
said Margaret
The doctor smiled
Meta looked extremely puzzled
said Margaret
said Meta, with a shade of
what the French call depit
said Margaret
said Meta
said the doctor
asked the doctor
Margaret made her perceive that the doctor was smiling, and she changed
her tone, and earnestly begged to be told what they thought of the case;
for if she should show her concern at home, her father and governess
would immediately beg her to cease from all connection with the school,
and she did not feel at all convinced that Mrs. Wilmot liked to have her
there. Feeling injured by the implied accusation of mismanagement, yet,
with a sense of its truth, used to be petted, and new to rebuffs, yet
with a sincere wish to act rightly, she was much perplexed by this, her
first reverse, and had come partly with the view of consulting Flora,
though she had fallen on other counsellors
said the doctor
said Meta
said Dr. May
said Meta
said the doctor
said Meta, with a sigh
Margaret eagerly inquired, and it appeared that the bishop had given
notice for a Confirmation in August, and that Mr. Wilmot was already
beginning to prepare his candidates, whilst Mr. Ramsden, always tardy,
never gave notice till the last moment possible. The hope was expressed
that Harry might be able to profit by this opportunity; and Harry's
prospects were explained to Meta; then the doctor, recollecting
something that he wished to say to Mr. Rivers, began to ask about the
chance of his coming before the time of an engagement of his own
said Meta
said the doctor
Margaret felt perfectly aghast at the cool tone, especially after what
had passed
said the doctor
said the doctor
said Meta, her cheek glowing
said Margaret
said the doctor
Meta did not speak, and Dr. May presently rose, saying he should try to
meet Mr. Rivers in the town, and went out. Meta sat thoughtful, and at
last, sighing, said
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Meta
said Margaret
Meta looked half puzzled, half thoughtful, and Margaret, who was a
little uneasy at the style of counsel she found herself giving, changed
the conversation.

It was a memorable one to little Miss Rivers, opening out to her, as did
almost all her meetings with that family, a new scope for thought and
for duty. The code to which she had been brought up taught that
servants were the machines of their employer's convenience. Good-nature
occasioned much kindliness of manner and intercourse, and every luxury
and indulgence was afforded freely; but where there was any want of
accordance between the convenience of the two parties, there was no
question. The master must be the first object, the servants' remedy was
in their own hands.

Amiable as was Mr. Rivers, this, merely from indulgence and want of
reflection, was his principle; and his daughter had only been acting
on it, though she did not know it, till the feelings that she had
never thought of were thus displayed before her. These were her first
practical lessons that life was not meant to be passed in pleasing
ourselves, and being good-natured at small cost.

It was an effort. Meta was very dependent, never having been encouraged
to be otherwise, and Bellairs was like a necessary of life in her
estimation; but strength of principle came to aid her naturally
kind-hearted feeling, and she was pleased by the idea of voluntarily
undergoing a privation so as to test her sincerity.

So when her father told her of the inconvenient times of the trains, and
declared that Bellairs must give it up, she answered by proposing to let
her sleep a night or two there, gaily promised to manage very well, and
satisfied him.

Her maid's grateful looks and thanks recompensed her when she made
the offer to her, and inspirited her to an energetic coaxing of Mrs.
Larpent, who, being more fully aware than her father of the needfulness
of the lady's-maid, and also very anxious that her darling should appear
to the best advantage before the expected aunt, Lady Leonora Langdale,
was unwilling to grant more than one night at the utmost.

Meta carried the day, and her last assurance to Bellairs was that she
might stay as long as seemed necessary to make her mother comfortable.

Thereupon Meta found herself more helpful in some matters than she
had expected, but at a loss in others. Susan, with all Mrs. Larpent's
supervision, could not quite bring her dress to the air that was so
peculiarly graceful and becoming; and she often caught her papa's eye
looking at her as if he saw something amiss, and could not discover what
it was. Then came Aunt Leonora, always very kind to Meta, but the dread
of the rest of the household, whom she was wont to lecture on the
proper care of her niece. Miss Rivers was likely to have a considerable
fortune, and Lady Leonora intended her to be a very fashionable and much
admired young lady, under her own immediate protection.

The two cousins, Leonora and Agatha, talked to her; the one of her
balls, the other of her music -- patronised her, and called her their good
little cousin -- while they criticised the stiff set of those unfortunate
plaits made by Susan, and laughed, as if it was an unheard-of
concession, at Bellairs's holiday.

Nevertheless, when "Honoured Miss" received a note, begging for three
days' longer grace, till a niece should come, in whom Bellairs could
place full confidence, she took it on herself to return free consent.
Lady Leonora found out what she had done, and reproved her, telling her
it was only the way to make "those people" presume, and Mrs. Larpent
was also taken to task; but, decidedly, Meta did not regret what she had
done, though she felt as if she had never before known how to appreciate
comfort, when she once more beheld Bellairs stationed at her toilette
table.

Meta was asked about her friends. She could not mention any one but Mrs.
Charles Wilmot and the Misses May
said Lady Leonora.

And she proceeded to exhort Mr. Rivers to bring his daughter to London,
or its neighbourhood, where she might have masters, and be in the way of
forming intimacies suited to her connections.

Mr. Rivers dreaded London -- never was well there, and did not like the
trouble of moving -- while Meta was so attached to the Grange, that she
entreated him not to think of leaving it, and greatly dreaded her aunt's
influence. Lady Leonora did, indeed, allow that the Grange was a very
pretty place; her only complaint was the want of suitable society for
Meta; she could not bear the idea of her growing accustomed -- for want of
something better -- to the vicar's wife and the pet doctor's daughters.

Flora had been long desirous to effect a regular call at Abbotstoke, and
it was just now that she succeeded. Mrs. Charles Wilmot's little girl
was to have a birthday feast, at which Mary, Blanche, and Aubrey were
to appear. Flora went in charge of them, and as soon as she had safely
deposited them, and appointed Mary to keep Aubrey out of mischief, she
walked up to the Grange, not a whit daunted by the report of the very
fine ladies who were astonishing the natives of Abbotstoke.

She was admitted, and found herself in the drawing-room, with a quick
lively-looking lady, whom she perceived to be Lady Leonora, and who
instantly began talking to her very civilly. Flora was never at a loss,
and they got on extremely well; her ease and self-possession, without
forwardness, telling much to her advantage. Meta came in, delighted to
see her, but, of course, the visit resulted in no really intimate talk,
though it was not without effect. Flora declared Lady Leonora Langdale
to be a most charming person; and Lady Leonora, on her side, asked
Meta who was that very elegant conversible girl
was
the delighted answer, now that the aunt had committed herself by
commendation. And she did not retract it; she pronounced Flora to be
something quite out of the common way, and supposed that she had had
unusual advantages.

Mr. Rivers took care to introduce to his sister-in-law Dr. May (who
would fain have avoided it), but ended by being in his turn pleased and
entertained by her brilliant conversation, which she put forth for
him, as her instinct showed her that she was talking to a man of high
ability. A perfect gentleman she saw him to be, and making out some
mutual connections far up in the family tree of the Mackenzies,
she decided that the May family were an acquisition, and very good
companions for her niece at present, while not yet come out. So ended
the visit, with this great triumph for Meta, who had a strong belief in
Aunt Leonora's power and infallibility, and yet had not consulted her
about Bellairs, nor about the school question.

She had missed one Sunday's school on account of her aunt's visit, but
the resolution made beside Margaret's sofa had not been forgotten. She
spent her Saturday afternoon in a call on Mrs. Wilmot, ending with a
walk through the village; she confessed her ignorance, apologised for
her blunders, and put herself under the direction which once she had
fancied too strict and harsh to be followed.

And on Sunday she was content to teach the stupid girls, and abstain
from making much of the smooth-faced engaging set. She thought it very
dull work, but she could feel that it was something not done to please
herself; and whereas her father had feared she would be dull when her
cousins were gone, he found her more joyous than ever.

There certainly was a peculiar happiness about Margaret Rivers; her
vexations were but ripples, rendering the sunny course of her life more
sparkling, and each exertion in the way of goodness was productive of so
much present joy that the steps of her ladder seemed, indeed, to be of
diamonds.

Her ladder -- for she was, indeed, mounting upwards. She was very earnest
in her Confirmation preparation, most anxious to do right and to contend
with her failings; but the struggle at present was easy; and the hopes,
joys, and incentives shone out more and more upon her in this blithe
stage of her life.

She knew there was a dark side, but hope and love were more present to
her than was fear. Happy those to whom such young days are granted
It is the generous spirit, who, when brought
     Among the tasks of real life, hath wrought
     Upon the plan that pleased his childish thought,
     Whose high endeavours are an inward light,
     Making the path before him always bright.
                                          WORDSWORTH.


The holidays had commenced about a week when Harry, now duly appointed
to H. M. S. Alcestis, was to come home on leave, as he proudly expressed
it.

A glad troop of brothers and sisters, with the doctor himself, walked up
to the station to meet him, and who was happiest when, from the window,
was thrust out the rosy face, with the gold band? Mary gave such a
shriek and leap, that two passengers and one guard turned round to look
at her, to the extreme discomfiture of Flora and Norman, evidenced by
one by a grave
by the other, by walking off to the extreme
end of the platform, and trying to look as if he did not belong to them,
in which he was imitated by his shadow, Tom.

Sailor already, rather than schoolboy, Harry cared not for spectators;
his bound from the carriage, and the hug between him, and Mary would
have been worthy of the return from the voyage. The next greeting was
for his father, and the sisters had had their share by the time the two
brothers thought fit to return from their calm walk on the platform.

Grand was it to see that party return to the town -- the naval cadet,
with his arm linked in Mary's, and Aubrey clinging to his hand, and the
others walking behind, admiring him as he turned his bright face every
moment with some glad question or answer
Oh, so
much better; she had been able to walk across the room, with Norman's
arm round her -- they hoped she would soon use crutches -- and she sat up
more
More charming than ever -- four teeth -- would soon
walk -- such a darling! Then came
said Mary
Some laughed, others were extremely impressed
cried Mary
said Harry; and, with an odd
mixture of shamefacedness and cordiality, he marched full up to his old
school-fellow, and shook hands with him, as if able, in the plenitude of
his officership, to afford plenty of good-humoured superiority. Tom had
meantime subsided out of all view. But poor Harry's exultation had a
fall
graciously inquired 'Mr. May
Harry gave a disturbed, wondering look round, on seeing Edward's air of
malignant satisfaction. He saw nothing that reassured him, except the
quietness of Norman's own face, but even that altered as their eyes met.
Before another word could be said, however, the doctor's hand was on
Harry's shoulder
said he
And he moved his little procession onwards, still resting on Harry's
shoulder, while a silence had fallen on all, and even the young sailor
ventured no question. Only Tom's lips were quivering, and Ethel had
squeezed Norman's hand
he muttered
They were entering their own garden, where, beneath the shade of the
tulip-tree, Margaret lay on her couch. Her arms were held out, and Harry
threw himself upon her, but when he rose from her caress, Norman and Tom
were gone
he now first ventured to ask
said Dr. May, leading the way to his study, where he
related the whole history of the suspicion that Norman had incurred.
He was glad that he had done so in private, for Harry's indignation and
grief went beyond his expectations; and when at last it appeared that
Harvey Anderson was actually Randall-scholar, after opening his
eyes with the utmost incredulity, and causing it to be a second time
repeated, he gave a gulp or two, turned very red, and ended by laying
his head on the table, and fairly sobbing and crying aloud, in spite of
dirk, uniform, and manhood
said
the doctor affectionately
said Harry, combating unsuccessfully with
his tears
cried Harry savagely
Again Harry's face went down on the table
said Dr. May, pulling off the spectacles that had
become very dewy
cried Harry, with
vehemence
said the doctor, smiling, as he
stroked down the blue sleeve, as if he thought that generous July did
not fall far short of it
exclaimed Harry
said Dr. May
said Harry
said the
doctor
Harry looked as if he did not know
repeated Harry
cried Harry
said the doctor
Harry made no positive answer, but pressed close to his father, who
put his arm round him, while the curly head was laid on his shoulder.
Presently he said, with a great sigh
asked Dr. May, smiling, as he held
the boy more closely to him
said the doctor
said Harry
said the doctor
murmured Harry
said the doctor
Harry sighed
he added
and his eye sparkled, and his smile
beamed, though the tear was undried
said Dr. May, smiling
said Harry, uneasily twirling a button
said the doctor
Then began the scampering up and down the house, round and round the
garden, visiting every pet or haunt or contrivance; Mary and Harry at
the head, Blanche and Tom in full career after them, and Aubrey stumping
and scrambling at his utmost speed, far behind.

Not a word passed between Norman and Harry on the school misadventure,
but, after the outbreak of the latter, he treated it as a thing
forgotten, and brought all his high spirits to enliven the family party.
Richard, too, returned later on the same day, and though not received
with the same uproarious joy as Harry, the elder section of the family
were as happy in their way as what Blanche called the middle-aged. The
Daisy was brought down, and the eleven were again all in the same room,
though there were suppressed sighs from some, who reflected how long it
might be before they could again assemble.

Tea went off happily in the garden, with much laughing and talking
said the doctor, unwillingly rising
at last
cried Harry
cried other voices, and the doctor proposed that they should
wait for him in the meads, and extend the walk after the visit. Richard
and Ethel both expressing their intention of adhering to Margaret -- the
latter observing how nice it would be to get rid of everybody, and have
a talk
said Dr. May, laughing
said Ethel saucily
said Dr. May
inquired Blanche, who had just come down prepared for
her walk
said Dr.
May
said Norman
pursued Blanche
was Norman's suggestion.

Poor Blanche stood in perplexity
continued the provoking papa
said Blanche
said the doctor
added Ethel
sighed
Harry
exclaimed the
doctor, beginning to rush frantically into the study, dining-room,
and his own room; but failing, quietly took up a book, and gave up the
search, which was vigorously pursued by Richard, Flora, and Mary, until
the missing article was detected, where Aubrey had left it in the nook
on the stairs, after using it for a trumpet and a telescope
said Dr. May, as he took it, and
patted Richard's shoulder
said Flora, rather aggrieved
she added, finishing her lamentation, after
the others were out at the door
exclaimed Margaret -- but Flora was
gone
sighed Ethel, walking across the room disconsolately, to
put a book into a shelf
said Margaret
said Ethel
asked Richard
said Margaret
said Ethel, making a face
said Margaret, hesitating
observed Margaret doubtfully
asked Ethel
said Richard
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Richard gravely
puzzled Richard, making Margaret laugh; but Ethel was too much in
earnest for amusement
she continued
said Richard
said Richard
said Richard
exclaimed Margaret, delighted
after
a pause
said Margaret
said Ethel
asked Richard
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Richard
said Margaret
said Ethel
interrupted Margaret
Margaret could have said that Ethel had come in positively crying with
vexation, but with no diminution of the spirit of perseverance
she continued
said Richard
as a bright
coin appeared on the book
he said
repeated Rlchard, half smiling
said Ethel
said Richard, as Ethel dashed away
said Margaret
said
Richard
said
Margaret
Neither Richard nor Margaret could help laughing, but they checked it at
once, and the former said
said Margaret
Ethel came back, having, of course, mislaid her sketch, and, much vexed,
wished to know if it ought to cause her first forfeit, but Margaret
thought these should not begin till the date of the agreement, and the
three resumed the Cocksmoor discussion.

It lasted till the return of the walking party, so late, that they had
been star-gazing, and came in, in full dispute as to which was Cygnus
and which Aquila, while Blanche was talking very grandly of Taurus
Poniatouski, and Harry begging to be told which constellations he should
still see in the southern hemisphere. Dr. May was the first to rectify
the globe for the southern latitudes, and fingers were affectionately
laid on Orion's studded belt, as though he were a friend who would
accompany the sailor-boy. Voices grew loud and eager in enumerating the
stars common to both; and so came bedtime, and the globe stood on the
table in danger of being forgotten. Ethel diligently lifted it up; and
while Norman exclaimed at her tidiness, Margaret told how a new leaf was
to be turned, and of her voluntary forfeits
cried the doctor
exclaimed Harry
said Norman,
with a gesture of disgust
cried Blanche, dancing
with glee
Oh, no, we never mention her,
     We never breathe her name.-- SONG.


A great deal of merriment had come home with Harry, who never was grave
for ten minutes without a strong reaction, and distracted the house with
his noise and his antics, in proportion, as it sometimes seemed, to the
spaces of serious thought and reading spent in the study, where Dr.
May did his best to supply Mr. Ramsden's insufficient attention to his
Confirmation candidates, by giving an hour every day to Norman, Ethel,
and Harry. He could not lecture, but he read with them, and his own
earnestness was very impressive.

The two eldest felt deeply, but Harry often kept it in doubt, whether he
were not as yet too young and wild for permanent impressions, so rapid
were his transitions, and so overpowering his high spirits. Not that
these were objected to; but there was a feeling that there might as well
be moderation in all things, and that it would have been satisfactory
if, under present circumstances, he had been somewhat more subdued and
diligent
For Harry, being somewhat deficient in arithmetic, had been recommended
to work in that line during his visit at home -- an operation usually
deferred, as at present, to the evening
said Harry, somewhat annoyed.

He really fetched his arithmetic, and his voice was soon heard asking
how he was ever to put an end to a sum that would turn to nothing but
everlasting threes
asked Dr. May
said Ethel
and
Ethel shook her head in disgust
said
her father
said Ethel
said Flora
exclaimed the doctor
Flora looked dignified
said
Harry
said the doctor
said Dr. May
said Margaret
said Flora
said Dr. May
Many voices declared, in forms of varying severity, that it was
impossible to speak worse of the Andersons than they deserved
cried Dr. May
saucily put in Blanche
said Ethel
suggested Harry
asked Flora
cried out all at once
She looked intensely serious and innocent
said Ethel
observed the doctor
said Richard
rejoined Dr. May
whispered Ethel
said Dr. May
and up went Harry's book of decimals to the
ceiling, coming down upon a candle, which would have been overturned on
Ethel's work, if it had not been dexterously caught by Richard
indignantly cried Ethel and Flora
and the doctor's voice called to order, but Harry could not heed
Ethel could not help looking at Margaret, but was ashamed of her
impertinence, and coloured violently, whereas her sister did not colour
at all, and Norman, looking down, wondered whether Alan would make the
voyage
said Harry
Norman further wondered whether Hector would remain on the Stoneborough
foundation, and Mary hoped they should not lose him; but there was no
great readiness to talk over the event, and there soon was a silence
broken by Flora saying
Another shout, which caused Flora to take refuge in playing waltzes for
the rest of the evening. Moreover, to the extreme satisfaction of Mary,
she left her crochet-needle on the floor at night. While a tumultuous
party were pursuing her with it to claim the penny, and Richard was
conveying Margaret upstairs, Ethel found an opportunity of asking her
father if he were not very glad of Mr. Ernescliffe's good fortune
She had no answer but a sigh, and a look that made her blush for having
ventured so far. She was so much persuaded that great events must ensue,
that, all the next day, she listened to every ring of the bell, and when
one at last was followed by a light, though, to her ears, manly sounding
tread, she looked up flushing with expectation.

Behold, she was disappointed. "Miss Walkingham" was announced, and she
rose surprised, for the lady in question had only come to Stoneborough
for a couple of days with an infirm mother, who, having known Dr. May
in old times, had made it her especial request that he would let her see
his daughters. She was to proceed on her journey to-day, and the return
of the visit had been by no means expected.

Flora went forward to receive her, wondering to see her so young
looking, and so unformed. She held out her hand, with a red wrist, and,
as far as could be seen under her veil, coloured when presented to the
recumbent Margaret. How she got into her chair, they hardly knew, for
Flora was at that moment extremely annoyed by hearing an ill-bred peal
of Mary's laughter in the garden, close to the window; but she thought
it best to appear unconscious, since she had no power to stop it.

Margaret thought the stranger embarrassed, and kindly inquired for Lady
Walkingham
mumbled a voice down in the throat.

A silence, until Margaret tried another question, equally briefly
answered; and, after a short interval, the young lady contrived to make
her exit, with the same amount of gaucherie as had marked her entrance.

Expressions of surprise at once began, and were so loud, that when Harry
entered the room, his inquiry was
said Ethel
asked Harry
said Flora
asked Harry
said Margaret
said Flora
asked Harry
cried Flora indignantly
said Margaret
said Flora
said Ethel
cried Margaret, starting with the painful timidity of
helplessness
said Ethel,
laughing as she held it up
Margaret's eyes looked quite large and
terrified
The more Margaret was alarmed, the more Harry laughed
cried Margaret, raising herself up in an
agony of nervous terror
shouted Harry, his hands making a trumpet over his mouth
said Ethel, hastily
and Margaret sank back, as there was a general outcry of laughter
and wonder
asked Flora severely
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
Hasty and eager inquiries broke out from Flora and Ethel
said Ethel
exclaimed Harry
said Flora
said Ethel
All this had passed very quickly, with much laughter, and numerous
interjections of amusement, and reprobation, or delight. So excited were
the young people, that they did not perceive a step on the gravel,
till Dr. May entered by the window, and stood among them. His first
exclamation was of consternation
Only then did her brother and sisters perceive that Margaret was lying
back on her cushions, very pale, and panting for breath. She tried to
smile and say
and
but the words were
faint, from the palpitation of her heart
said Flora indignantly, as she flew for the
scent-bottle, while her father bent over Margaret
gasped Margaret
and Dr.
May's look was even more reproachful than his words.

Harry was dismayed at his sister's condition, but the injustice of the
wholesale reproach chased away contrition
he said moodily
said Flora
said Dr. May, seeing that the discussion
was injuring Margaret more and more
whispered Margaret
She obeyed, took the
sal volatile, and shut her eyes, while he sat leaning anxiously over,
watching her. Presently she opened them, and, looking up, said rather
faintly, and trying to smile
was the doctor's answer
began Margaret, but she still was unfit to talk,
and her father silenced her, by promising to go and hear the boy's own
account.

In the hall, he was instantly beset by Ethel and Mary, the former
exclaiming
Ethel's mode of pleading was unfortunate; the "very foolish of Margaret"
 were the very words to displease
said her father sternly
cried Harry, passionately bursting open the study door
With rapid agitated utterance, Harry made his confession. At another
time the doctor would have treated the matter as a joke carried too far,
but which, while it called for censure, was very amusing; but now
the explanation that the disguise had been assumed to impose on the
Andersons, only added to his displeasure
he said
cried the two girls, in tones of entreaty -- while
Harry, with a burning face and hasty step, dashed upstairs without a
word
said Dr. May
An hour had passed away, when Richard knocked at Ethel's door to tell
her that tea was ready
said Ethel, as he looked in, and
saw her seated with a book
continued Ethel, disregarding the caution
said Richard
Richard was somewhat in difficulties how to answer, but at that moment
Harry's door, which was next, was slightly opened, and his voice said
said Richard
said Ethel
said Harry,
opening his door another inch
said Richard
said Harry
said Ethel
said Richard
said Ethel
said Richard
repeated Harry
The voice was very much troubled, and it brought back that burning
sensation of indignant tears to Ethel's eyes
returned Harry
The door shut, and they fancied they heard sobs. Ethel groaned, but made
no opposition to following her brother down to tea. Margaret lay, wan
and exhausted, on the sofa -- the doctor looked very melancholy and rather
stern, and the others were silent. Ethel had begun to hope for the
warm reaction she had so often known after a hasty fit, but it did
not readily come; Harry was boy instead of girl -- the fault and its
consequence had been more serious -- and the anxiety for the future
was greater. Besides, he had not fully heard the story; Harry, in his
incoherent narration, had not excused himself, and Margaret's panic had
appeared more as if inspired by him, than, as it was, in fact, the work
of her fancy.

Thus the evening passed gloomily away, and it was not till the others
had said good-night that Dr. May began to talk over the affair with his
eldest son, who then was able to lay before him the facts of the case,
as gathered from his sisters. He listened with a manner as though it
were a reproof, and then said sadly
said Richard
said the doctor
said Richard
and there Dr. May stopped short, and, taking up his candle,
slowly mounted the stairs, and looked into Harry's room. The boy was in
bed, but started up on hearing his father's step, and exclaimed
interrupted Harry
sobbed Harry, hiding his face
said the doctor
and Harry cried bitterly, and his father was deeply grieved;
but no more could then be said, and they parted for the night -- Dr. May
saying, as he went away
And Dr. May went away to mourn over what he viewed as far greater sins
than those of his son.

Anger had, indeed, given place to sorrow, and all were grave the next
morning, as if each had something to be forgiven.

Margaret, especially, felt guilty of the fears which, perhaps, had not
been sufficiently combated in her days of health, and now were beyond
control, and had occasioned so much pain. Ethel grieved over the words
she had yesterday spoken in haste of her father and sister; Mary knew
herself to have been an accomplice in the joke; and Norman blamed
himself for not having taken the trouble to perceive that Harry had not
been talking rhodomontade, when he had communicated "his capital scheme"
 the previous morning.

The decision as to the Confirmation was a great grief to all. Flora
consoled herself by observing that, as he was so young, no one need know
it, nor miss him; and Ethel, with a trembling, almost sobbing voice,
enumerated all Harry's excellences, his perfect truth, his kindness, his
generosity, his flashes of intense feeling -- declared that nobody might
be confirmed if he were not, and begged and entreated that Mr. Wilmot
might be written to, and consulted. She would almost have done so
herself, if Richard had not shown her it would be undutiful.

Harry himself was really subdued. He made no question as to the
propriety of the decision, but rather felt his own unworthiness, and was
completely humbled and downcast. When a note came from Mrs. Anderson,
saying that she was convinced that it could not have been Dr. May's wish
that she should be exposed to the indignity of a practical joke, and
that a young lady of the highest family should have been insulted, no
one had spirits to laugh at the terms; and when Dr. May said
Harry turned crimson, and was evidently trying to utter
something
said Dr. May;
and a sound was heard, not very articulate, but expressing full assent
said the doctor
cried Harry, looking up.

They set off at once. Mrs. Anderson was neither an unpleasing nor
unkind person -- her chief defect being a blind admiration of her sons
and daughters, which gave her, in speaking of them, a tone of pretension
that she would never have shown on her own account.

Her displeasure was pacified in a moment by the sight of the confused
contrition of the culprit, coupled with his father's frank and kindly
tone of avowal, that it had been a foolish improper frolic, and that he
had been much displeased with him for it
and, as something was said of going home
to the early dinner
Poor Mr. May! to be called Master Harry, and treated to sweet cake! But
he saw his father thought he ought to endure, and he even said
The cake stuck in his throat, however, when Mrs. Anderson and her
daughters opened their full course of praise on their dear Harvey and
dearest Edward, telling all the flattering things Dr. Hoxton had said of
the order into which Harvey had brought the school, and insisting on Dr.
May's reading the copy of the testimonial that he had carried to Oxford
said Mrs. Anderson
was all that the doctor could
bring himself to say; and thinking that he and his son had endured quite
enough, he took his leave as soon as Harry had convulsively bolted the
last mouthful.

Not a word was spoken all the way home. Harry's own trouble had
overpowered even this subject of resentment. On Sunday, the notice
of the Confirmation was read. It was to take place on the following
Thursday, and all those who had already given in their names were to
come to Mr. Ramsden to apply for their tickets. While this was read,
large tear-drops were silently falling on poor Harry's book.

Ethel and Norman walked together in the twilight, in deep lamentation
over their brother's deprivation, which seemed especially to humble
them
said Norman
said Ethel
said Norman
said Ethel.

Meanwhile, Harry and Mary were sitting twisted together into a sort of
bundle, on the same footstool, by Margaret's sofa. Harry had begged of
her to hear him say the Catechism once more, and Mary had joined with
him in the repetition. There was to be only one more Sunday at home
he said, and sighed.

Margaret knew what he meant, for the Feast was to be spread for those
newly admitted to share it. She only said a caressing word of affection
said Harry
Harry laid down his head and cried; Margaret could not speak for tears;
and Mary was incoherently protesting against any notion of his falling
overboard
Margaret said at last
sobbed Mary
She would have dragged him after her
said Harry, resisting her
said Mary
said Harry
On the Tuesday, Dr. May had said he would take Norman and Etheldred to
Mr. Ramsden. Ethel was gravely putting on her walking dress, when she
heard her father's voice calling Harry, and she started with a joyful
hope.

There, indeed, when she came downstairs, stood Harry, his cap in his
hand, and his face serious, but with a look on it that had as much
subdued joy as awe
Harry broke off as his father advanced, and gave her the letter itself
to read. Mr. Wilmot answered that he certainly should not refuse such
a boy as Harry, on the proof of such entire penitence and deep feeling.
Whether to bring him to the further privilege might be another question;
but, as far as the Confirmation was concerned, the opinion was decided.

Norman and Ethel were too happy for words, as they went arm in arm along
the street, leaving their dear sailor to be leaned on by his father.

Harry's sadness was gone, but he still was guarded and gentle during the
few days that followed; he seemed to have learned thought, and in his
gratitude for the privileges he had so nearly missed, to rate them more
highly than he might otherwise have done. Indeed, the doubt for the
Sunday gave him a sense of probation.

The Confirmation day came. Mr. Rivers had asked that his daughter
might be with Miss May, and Ethel had therefore to be called for in the
Abbotstoke carriage, quite contrary to her wishes, as she had set her
heart on the walk to church with her father and brothers. Flora would
not come, for fear of crowding Mr. Rivers, who, with Mrs. Larpent,
accompanied his darling
said Flora, after putting her sister into the carriage
said Margaret
cried
Mary, dashing in
said Flora. Margaret looked annoyed,
but she had not found the means of checking Flora without giving
offence; and she could only call Mary and Blanche to order, beg them to
think of what the others were doing, and offer to read to them a little
tale on Confirmation.

Flora sat and worked, and Margaret, stealing a glance at her, understood
that, in her quiet way, she resented the implied reproof
she thought
The party came home in due time, and after one kiss to Margaret, given
in silence, dispersed, for they could not yet talk of what had passed.

Only Ethel, as she met Richard on the stairs, said
said Richard interrogatively
said Ethel
Dr. May gave his own history of the Confirmation to Margaret
he said
said Margaret softly
The doctor could hardly command voice to tell her
said Margaret
What matter, whether through delight,
       Or led through vale of tears,
     Or seen at once, or hid from sight,
       The glorious way appears?
     If step by step the path we see,
       That leads, my Saviour, up to Thee
said Dr. May
There were transports till it was recollected that on Thursday morning
school would recommence, and that on Friday Harry must join his ship.

However, the Roman camp had long been an object of their desires, and
Margaret was glad that the last day should have a brilliancy, so she
would not hear of any one remaining to keep her company, talked of the
profit she should gain by a leisure day, and took ardent interest in
every one's preparations and expectations, in Ethel's researches
into county histories and classical dictionaries, Flora's sketching
intentions, Norman's promises of campanula glomerata, and a secret
whispered into her ear by Mary and Harry
as they said, when the August sun rose fresh and
joyous; and great was the unnecessary bustle, and happy confusion from
six o'clock till eleven, when Dr. May, who was going to visit patients
some way farther on the same road, carried off Harry and Mary, to set
them down at the place.

The rest were called for by Mr. Rivers's carriage and brake. Mrs.
Charles Wilmot and her little girl were the only additions to the party,
and Meta, putting Blanche into the carriage to keep company with her
contemporary, went herself in the brake. What a brilliant little fairy
she was, in her pink summer robes, fluttering like a butterfly, and
with the same apparent felicity in basking in joy, all gaiety, glee,
and light-heartedness in making others happy. On they went, through
honeysuckled lanes, catching glimpses of sunny fields of corn falling
before the reaper, and happy knots of harvest folks dining beneath the
shelter of their sheaves, with the sturdy old green umbrella sheltering
them from the sun.

Snatches of song, peals of laughter, merry nonsense, passed from one to
the other; Norman, roused into blitheness, found wit, the young ladies
found laughter, and Richard's eyes and mouth looked very pretty, as they
smiled their quiet diversion.

At last, his face drawn all into one silent laugh, he directed the eyes
of the rest to a high green mound, rising immediately before them, where
stood two little figures, one with a spy-glass, intently gazing the
opposite way.

At the same time came the halt, and Norman, bounding out, sprang lightly
and nimbly up the side of the mound, and, while the spy-glass was yet
pointed full at Wales, had hold of a pair of stout legs, and with the
words
had tumbled Mr. May headforemost down the
grassy slope, with Mary rolling after.

Harry's first outcry was for his precious glass -- his second was, not
at his fall, but that they should have come from the east, when, by the
compass, Stoneborough was north-north-west. And then the boys took to
tumbling over one another, while Meta frolicked joyously, with Nipen
after her, up and down the mounds, chased by Mary and Blanche, who were
wild with glee.

By-and-by she joined Ethel, and Norman was summoned to help them to
trace out the old lines of encampment, ditch, rampart, and gates -- happy
work on those slopes of fresh turf, embroidered with every minute
blossom of the moor -- thyme, birdsfoot, eyebright, and dwarf purple
thistle, buzzed and hummed over by busy, black-tailed, yellow-banded
dumbledores, the breezy wind blowing softly in their faces, and the
expanse of country -- wooded hill, verdant pasture, amber harvest-field,
winding river, smoke-canopied town, and brown moor, melting grayly away
to the mountain heads.

Now in sun, now in shade, the bright young antiquaries surveyed the old
banks, and talked wisely of vallum and fossa, of legion and cohort, of
Agricola and Suetonius, and discussed the delightful probability, that
this might have been raised in the war with Caractacus, whence, argued
Ethel, since Caractacus was certainly Arviragus, it must have been the
very spot where Imogen met Posthumus again. Was not yonder the very
high-road to Milford Haven, and thus must not "fair Fidele's grassy
tomb" be in the immediate neighbourhood?

Then followed the suggestion that the mound in the middle was a good
deal like an ancient tomb, where, as Blanche interposed with some of the
lore lately caught from Ethel's studies
while Norman observed it was the more probable, as
fair Fidele never was buried at all.

The idea of a search enchanted the young ladies
said Norman, looking at Harry, who had been
particularly earnest in recommending that it should be explored; and
Meta declared that if they could but find the least trace, her
papa would be delighted to go regularly to work, and reveal all the
treasures.

Richard seemed a little afraid of the responsibility of treasure-trove,
but he was overruled by a chorus of eager voices, and dispossessed of
the trowel, which he had brought to dig up some down-gentians for the
garden. While Norman set to work as pioneer, some skipped about in wild
ecstasy, and Ethel knelt down to peer into the hole.

Very soon there was a discovery -- an eager outcry -- some pottery! Roman
vessels -- a red thing that might have been a lamp, another that might
have been a lachrymatory
said Ethel
said Norman, holding it up
added Harry
said Meta, taking the
derided vessels into her hands
Flora and Ethel admired and speculated till there was a fresh, and still
more exciting discovery -- a coin, actually a medal, with the head of
an emperor upon it -- not a doubt of his high nose being Roman. Meta was
certain that she knew one exactly like him among her father's gems.
Ethel was resolved that he should be Claudius, and began decyphering the
defaced inscription THVRVS. She tried Claudius's whole torrent of names,
and, at last, made it into a contraction of Tiberius, which highly
satisfied her.

Then Meta, in her turn, read D.V.X., which, as Ethel said, was all she
could wish -- of course it was dux et imperator, and Harry muttered into
Norman's ear
and then heaved a sigh, as he thought
of the dux no longer
continued Meta
said Flora
said Ethel
suggested Norman gravely. But Ethel was sure
that could not be, because there was no diphthong; and a fresh theory
was just being started, when Blanche's head was thrust in to know what
made them all so busy
Poor Meta and Ethel, what a downfall! Meta was sure that Norman had
known it the whole time, and he owned to having guessed it from Harry's
importunity for the search. Harry and Mary had certainly made good
use of their time, and great was the mirth over the trap so cleverly
set -- the more when it was disclosed that Dr. May had been a full
participator in the scheme, had suggested the addition of the pottery,
had helped Harry to some liquid to efface part of the inscription, and
had even come up with them to plant the snare in the most plausible
corner for researches.

Meta, enchanted with the joke, flew off to try to take in her governess
and Mrs. Wilmot, whom she found completing their leisurely promenade,
and considering where they should spread the dinner.

The sight of those great baskets of good fare was appetising, and the
company soon collected on the shady turf, where Richard made himself
extremely useful, and the feast was spread without any worse mishap than
Nipen's running away with half a chicken, of which he was robbed, as Tom
reported, by a surly-looking dog that watched in the outskirts of the
camp, and caused Tom to return nearly as fast as the poor little white
marauder.

Meta
as Norman told her, comforted Nipen with a large
share of her sandwiches. Harry armed himself with a stick and Mary with
a stone, and marched off to the attack, but saw no signs of the enemy,
and had begun to believe him a figment of Tom's imagination, when Mary
spied him under a bush, lying at the feet of a boy, with whom he was
sharing the spoil.

Harry called out rather roughly
The boy jumped up, the dog growled, Mary shrank behind her brother,
and begged him not to be cross to the poor boy, but to come away. Harry
repeated his question
The boy was desired to wait while the brother and sister, in breathless
excitement, rushed back with their story.

Mrs. Wilmot was at first inclined to fear that the naval part of it had
been inspired by Harry's uniform, but the examination of Jem Jennings
put it beyond a doubt that he spoke nothing but the truth; and the
choicest delight of the feast was the establishing him and Toby behind
the barrow, and feeding them with such viands as they had probably never
seen before.

The boy could not read writing, but he had his father's letter in his
pocket, and Mary capered at the delightful coincidence, on finding that
Jem Jennings was actually a quarter-master on board the Alcestis. It
gave a sort of property in the boy, and she almost grudged Meta the
having been first to say that she would pay for the rest of his journey,
instead of doing it by subscription.

However, Mary had a consolation, she would offer to take charge of Toby,
who, as Harry observed, would otherwise have been drowned -- he could not
be taken on board. To be sure, he was a particularly ugly animal, rough,
grisly, short-legged, long-backed, and with an apology for a tail -- but
he had a redeeming pair of eyes, and he and Jem lived on terms of such
close friendship, that he would have been miserable in leaving him to
the mercy of Nanny Brooks.

So, after their meal, Jem and Toby were bidden to wait for Dr. May's
coming, and fell asleep together on the green bank, while the rest
either sketched, or wandered, or botanised. Flora acted the grown-up
lady with Mrs. Wilmot, and Meta found herself sitting by Ethel, asking
her a great many questions about Margaret, and her home, and what it
could be like to be one of such a numerous family. Flora had always
turned aside from personal matters, as uninteresting to her companion,
and, in spite of Meta's admiration, and the mutual wish to be intimate,
confidence did not spring up spontaneously, as it had done with the
doctor, and, in that single hour, with Margaret. Blunt as Ethel was, her
heartiness of manner gave a sense of real progress in friendship. Their
Confirmation vows seemed to make a link, and Meta's unfeigned enthusiasm
for the doctor was the sure road to Ethel's heart. She was soon telling
how glad Margaret was that he had been drawn into taking pleasure in
to-day's scheme, since, not only were his spirits tried by the approach
of Harry's departure, but he had, within the last few days, been made
very sad by reading and answering Aunt Flora's first letter on the news
of last October's misfortune
explained Ethel
cried Meta
said Ethel
Meta asked ravenously for more details, and when she had pretty well
exhausted Ethel's stock, she said
said Meta
said
Ethel
she added, laughing
said Meta
said Meta thoughtfully
said Ethel
said Ethel
cried Meta
said Meta
said Ethel
Ethel screwed up her face, as if the eyes of her mind were pursuing some
thought almost beyond her
she
said
cried Meta, distressed
she added, in a low voice, as the tears came into her eyes
Ethel felt ashamed, as she heard of warmer feelings than her own had
been, expressed in that lowered trembling voice, and she sought for the
answer that would only come to her mind in sense, not at first in words
said she
said Meta
said Ethel
said Meta, sighing
she cried, springing up
said Ethel.

They did so, and he called out his wishes of many happy returns of
blithe days to the little birthday queen, then added
said Ethel
Meta had not bargained for this, but she was very much in earnest, and
there was nothing formidable in Dr. May, so she assented
said
Ethel
said Dr.
May kindly
added Ethel
said Meta
returned Dr. May
said Meta, much touched
said Ethel
he said
He stopped short, and turned to his
daughter
Meta was much affected, and began to put together what the father and
daughter had said. Perhaps the little modes of secret discipline,
of which Ethel had spoken, might be the true means of clasping the
staff -- perhaps she had been impatient, and wanting in humility in
craving for the strife, when her armour was scarce put on.

Dr. May spoke once again
But the serious discussion was suddenly broken off.

Others had seen Dr. May's approach, and Harry and Mary rushed down
in dismay at their story having, as they thought, been forestalled.
However, they had it all to themselves, and the doctor took up the
subject as keenly as could have been hoped, but the poor boy being still
fast asleep, after, probably, much fatigue, he would not then waken him
to examine him, but came and sat down in the semicircle, formed by a
terraced bank of soft turf, where Mrs. Larpent, Mrs. Wilmot, Richard,
and Flora, had for some time taken up their abode. Meta brought him
the choice little basket of fruit which she had saved for him, and all
delighted in having him there, evidently enjoying the rest and sport
very much, as he reposed on the fragrant slope, eating grapes, and
making inquiries as to the antiquities lately discovered.

Norman gave an exceedingly droll account of the great Roman Emperor,
Tiberius V.V., and Meta correcting it, there was a regular gay skirmish
of words, which entertained every one extremely -- above all, Meta's
indignation when the charge was brought home to her of having declared
the "old Duke" exactly like in turns to Domitian and Tiberius -- his
features quite forbidding.

This lasted till the younger ones, who had been playing and rioting till
they were tired, came up, and throwing themselves down on the grass,
Blanche petitioned for something that every one could play at.

Meta proposed what she called the story play. One was to be sent out of
earshot, and the rest to agree upon a word, which was then to be guessed
by each telling a story, and introducing the word into it, not too
prominently. Meta volunteered to guess, and Harry whispered to Mary it
would be no go, but, in the meantime, the word was found, and Blanche
eagerly recalled Meta, and sat in the utmost expectation and delight.
Meta turned first to Richard, but he coloured distressfully, and begged
that Flora might tell his story for him -- he should only spoil the game.
Flora, with a little tinge of graceful reluctance, obeyed
she said
It was prettily enunciated, and had a pleasing effect. Meta stood
conning the words -- woman -- giant -- mountain -- glory -- and begged for another
tale
said Harry
said Harry, imitating the gesture
said Meta
said Ethel
Ethel's language had become more flowing as she grew more eager in the
tale, and they all listened with suspended interest. Norman asked
where she got the story
was the answer
said Flora
said Ethel
said Meta
coaxingly
Mary fell back on her papa, and begged him to take hers. Papa told the
best stories of all, she said, and Meta looked beseeching
said the doctor, yielding
with a half-reluctant smile
half whispered Meta, not without a trembling of the
lip
The elder ladies had begun to look at watches, and talk of time to go
home; and Jem Jemmings having been seen rearing himself up from behind
the barrow, the doctor proceeded to investigate his case, was perfectly
satisfied of the boy's truth, and as ready as the young ones to befriend
him. A letter should be written at once, desiring his father to look out
for him on Friday, when he should go by the same train as Harry, who
was delighted at the notion of protecting him so far, and begged to be
allowed to drive him home to Stoneborough in the gig.

Consent was given; and Richard being added to give weight and
discretion, the gig set out at once -- the doctor, much to Meta's delight,
took his place in the brake. Blanche, who, in the morning, had been
inclined to despise it as something akin to a cart, now finding it a
popular conveyance, was urgent to return in it; and Flora was made over
to the carriage, not at all unwillingly, for, though it separated her
from Meta, it made a senior of her.

Norman's fate conveyed him to the exalted seat beside the driver of the
brake, where he could only now and then catch the sounds of mirth from
below. He had enjoyed the day exceedingly, with that sort of abandon
more than ordinarily delicious to grave or saddened temperaments, when
roused or drawn out for a time. Meta's winning grace and sweetness had
a peculiar charm for him, and, perhaps, his having been originally
introduced to her as ill, and in sorrow, had given her manner towards
him a sort of kindness which was very gratifying.

And now he felt as if he was going back to a very dusky dusty world; the
last and blithest day of his holidays was past, and he must return to
the misapprehensions and injustice that had blighted his school career,
be kept beneath boys with half his ability, and without generous
feeling, and find all his attainments useless in restoring his
position. Dr. Hoxton's dull scholarship would chill all pleasure in
his studies -- there would be no companionship among the boys -- even his
supporters, Ernescliffe and Larkins, were gone, and Harry would leave
him still under a cloud.

Norman felt it more as disgrace than he had done since the first, and
wished he had consented to quit the school when it had been offered -- be
made a man, instead of suffering these doubly irksome provocations,
which rose before him in renewed force
thought he
So Norman repressed the sigh as he looked at the school buildings, which
never could give him the pleasures of memory they afforded to others.

The brake had set out before the carriage, so that Meta had to come in
and wait for her governess. Before the vehicle had disgorged half its
contents, Harry had rushed out to meet them
Is Mr. Ernescliffe come? crossed Ethel's mind, but Margaret was alone,
flushed, and holding out her hands
Norman really trembled so much that he could neither speak nor stand,
but sat down on the window-seat, while a confusion of tongues asked
more.

Dr. Hoxton and Mr. Larkins had come to call -- heard no one was at home
but Miss May -- had, nevertheless, come in -- and Margaret had heard
that Mr. Larkins, who had before intended to remove his son from
Stoneborough, had, in the course of the holidays, made discoveries from
him, which he could not feel justified in concealing from Dr. Hoxton.

The whole of the transactions with Ballhatchet, and Norman's part in
them, had been explained, as well as the true history of the affray in
Randall's Alley -- how Norman had dispersed the boys, how they had again
collected, and, with the full concurrence of Harvey Anderson, renewed
the mischief, how the Andersons had refused to bear witness in his
favour, and how Ballhatchet's ill-will had kept back the evidence which
would have cleared him.

Little Larkins had told all, and his father had no scruple in repeating
it, and causing the investigation to be set on foot. Nay, he deemed that
Norman's influence had saved his son, and came, as anxious to thank
him, as Dr. Hoxton, warm-hearted, though injudicious, was to repair his
injustice. They were much surprised and struck by finding that Dr. May
had been aware of the truth the whole time, and had patiently put up
with the injustice, and the loss of the scholarship -- a loss which Dr.
Hoxton would have given anything to repair, so as to have sent up a
scholar likely to do him so much credit; but it was now too late, and he
had only been able to tell Margaret how dismayed he was at finding out
that the boy to whom all the good order in his school was owing had been
so ill-used. Kind Dr. May's first feeling really seemed to be pity and
sympathy for his old friend, the head-master, in the shock of such a
discovery. Harry was vociferously telling his version of the story to
Ethel and Mary. Tom stood transfixed in attention. Meta, forgotten and
bewildered, was standing near Norman, whose colour rapidly varied,
and whose breath came short and quick as he listened. A quick half
interrogation passed Meta's lips, heard by no one else
he answered, scarcely audibly
said Meta, as she heard words that implied the past
suspicion
said Norman
he whispered huskily
Meta did not speak, but she held out her hand in hearty congratulation;
Norman, scarce knowing what he did, grasped and wrung it so tight
that it was positive pain, as he turned away his head to the window to
struggle with those irrepressible tears. Meta's colour flushed into her
cheek as she found it still held, almost unconsciously, perhaps, in his
agitation, and she heard Margaret's words, that both gentlemen had said
Norman had acted nobly, and that every revelation made in the course of
their examination had only more fully established his admirable conduct
cried Mary's voice in the first
pause, and, Margaret asking where he was, he suddenly turned round,
recollected himself, and found it was not the back of the chair that he
had been squeezing, blushed intensely, but made no attempt at apology,
for indeed he could not speak -- he only leaned down over Margaret, to
receive her heartfelt embrace; and, as he stood up again, his father
laid his hand on his shoulder
but the words were
broken, and, as if neither could bear more, Norman hastily left the
room, Ethel rushing after him
said the doctor
shouted Harry
and Tom and
Mary joined in chorus
exclaimed Flora, opening the door
Many were the voices that answered
said the doctor, turning, with
a sweet smile that had in it something, nevertheless, of apology
said Meta, her eyes full of tears, as she
came forward.

And there was no helping it; the first kiss between Margaret May
and Margaret Rivers was given in that overflowing sympathy of
congratulation.

The doctor gave her his arm to take her to the carriage, and, on the
way, his quick warm words filled up the sketch of Norman's behaviour;
Meta's eyes responded better than her tongue, but, to her good-bye, she
could not help adding
His answer was much such a grip as her poor little fingers had already
received, but though they felt hot and crushed all the way home, the
sensation seemed to cause such throbs of joy, that she would not have
been without it
And full of hope, day followed day,
     While that stout ship at anchor lay
        Beside the shores of Wight.
     The May had then made all things green,
     And floating there, in pomp serene,
     That ship was goodly to be seen,
        His pride and his delight.

     Yet then when called ashore, he sought
     The tender peace of rural thought,
        In more than happy mood.
     To your abodes, bright daisy flowers,
     He then would steal at leisure hours,
     And loved you, glittering in your bowers,
        A starry multitude.
                                         WORDSWORTH.


Harry's last home morning was brightened by going to the school to see
full justice done to Norman, and enjoying the scene for him. It was
indeed a painful ordeal to Norman himself, who could, at the moment,
scarcely feel pleasure in his restoration, excepting for the sake of his
father, Harry, and his sisters. To find the head-master making apologies
to him was positively painful and embarrassing, and his countenance
would have been fitter for a culprit receiving a lecture. It was
pleasanter when the two other masters shook hands with him, Mr. Harrison
with a free confession that he had done him injustice, and Mr. Wilmot
with a glad look of congratulation, that convinced Harry he had never
believed Norman to blame.

Harry himself was somewhat of a hero; the masters all spoke to him, bade
him good speed, and wished him a happy voyage, and all the boys were
eager to admire his uniform, and wish themselves already men and
officers like Mr. May. He had his long-desired three cheers for
shouted with a thorough goodwill by the united lungs of the
Whichcote foundation, and a supplementary cheer arose for the good ship
Alcestis, while hands were held out on every side; and the boy arrived
at such a pitch of benevolence and good humour, as actually to volunteer
a friendly shake of the hand to Edward Anderson, whom he encountered
skulking apart
Edward did not refuse the offered grasp, and though his words were only
Harry went away with a
lighter heart.

The rest of the day Harry adhered closely to his father, though chiefly
in silence; Dr. May had intended much advice and exhortation for his
warm-hearted, wild-spirited son, but words would not come, not even when
in the still evening twilight they walked down alone together to the
cloister, and stood over the little stone marked M. M. After standing
there for some minutes, Harry knelt to collect some of the daisies in
the grass
That was all Dr. May contrived to say to his son, nor could Margaret do
much more than kiss him, while tears flowed one by one over her cheeks,
as she tried to whisper that he must remember and guard himself, and
that he was sure of being thought of, at least, in every prayer; and
then she fastened into his book the cross, formed of flattened daisies,
gummed upon a framework of paper. He begged her to place it at the
Baptismal Service, for he said
Margaret had indeed a thrill of melancholy pleasure in this task, when
she saw how it was regarded. Oh, that her boy might not lose these
impressions amid the stormy waves he was about to encounter!

That last evening of home good-nights cost Harry many a choking sob
ere he could fall asleep; but the morning of departure had more
cheerfulness; the pleasure of patronising Jem Jennings was as consoling
to his spirits, as was to Mary the necessity of comforting Toby.

Toby's tastes were in some respects vulgar, as he preferred the stable,
and Will Adams, to all Mary's attentions; but he attached himself
vehemently to Dr. May, followed him everywhere, and went into raptures
at the slightest notice from him. The doctor said it was all homage to
the master of the house. Margaret held that the dog was a physiognomist.

The world was somewhat flat after the loss of Harry -- that element of
riot and fun; Aubrey was always playing at
Mary looked staid and sober, and Norman was still graver, and more
devoted to books, while Ethel gave herself up more completely to the
thickening troubles of Cocksmoor.

Jealousies had arisen there, and these, with some rebukes for failures
in sending children to be taught, had led to imputations on the
character of Mrs. Green, in whose house the school was kept. Ethel
was at first vehement in her defence; then when stronger evidence was
adduced of the woman's dishonesty, she was dreadfully shocked, and
wanted to give up all connection with her, and in both moods was equally
displeased with Richard for pausing, and not going all lengths with her.

Mr. Wilmot was appealed to, and did his best to investigate, but the
only result was to discover that no one interrogated had any notion of
truth, except John Taylor, and he knew nothing of the matter. The mass
of falsehood, spite, violence, and dishonesty, that became evident,
was perfectly appalling, and not a clue was to be found to the
truth -- scarcely a hope that minds so lost to honourable feeling were
open to receive good impressions. It was a great distress to Ethel -- it
haunted her night and day -- she lay awake pondering on the vain hopes
for her poor children, and slept to dream of the angry faces and rude
accusations. Margaret grew quite anxious about her, and her elders were
seriously considering the propriety of her continuing her labours at
Cocksmoor.

Mr. Wilmot would not be at Stoneborough after Christmas. His father's
declining health made him be required at home, and since Richard was so
often absent, it became matter of doubt whether the Misses May ought to
be allowed to persevere, unassisted by older heads, in such a locality.

This doubt put Ethel into an agony. Though she had lately been declaring
that it made her very unhappy to go -- she could not bear the sight of
Mrs. Green, and that she knew all her efforts were vain while the poor
children had such homes; she now only implored to be allowed to go on;
she said that the badness of the people only made it more needful to
do their utmost for them; there were no end to the arguments that she
poured forth upon her ever kind listener, Margaret
said Ethel
said Ethel
Margaret drew her down close to her, and whispered
sighed Ethel
said Margaret fondly
sobbed Ethel
Margaret gave a little space for the struggle with herself, then advised
her resolutely to fix her attention on something else. It was a Saturday
morning, and time was more free than usual, so Margaret was able to
persuade her to continue a half-forgotten drawing, while listening to an
interesting article in a review, which opened to her that there were too
many Cocksmoors in the world.

The dinner-hour sounded too soon, and as she was crossing the hall to
put away her drawing materials, the front door gave the click peculiar
to Dr. May's left-handed way of opening it. She paused, and saw him
enter, flushed, and with a look that certified her that something had
happened
He held up his finger, drew her into the study, and shut the door. The
expression of mystery and amusement gave way to sadness and gravity as
he sat down in his arm-chair, and sighed as if much fatigued. She was
checked and alarmed, but she could not help asking
No wonder Dr. May was hot and tired
asked Ethel
cried Ethel breathlessly; and,
perceiving the affirmative, added
He rested his forehead on his hands, and Ethel stood aghast at his
unexpected reception of the addresses for which she had so long hoped.
She did not venture to speak, and presently he roused himself as the
dinner-bell rang
he said
It was not flattering to be thus cleared out of the way, especially when
full of excited curiosity, but any such sensation was quite overborne by
sympathy in his great anxiety, and Ethel's only question was
said Dr. May impatiently
and hastily
passing her, he dashed up to his room, nearly running over the nursery
procession, and, in a very few seconds, was seated at table, eating and
speaking by snatches, and swallowing endless draughts of cold water
said he, as they were finishing
said Richard
said the doctor
He did not look as if he had found it so
said Ethel
replied Flora
said Miss Winter
reiterated Ethel
implored Ethel, at the door
said Flora.

Her movements were quickened, however, by her father, who, finding her
with Margaret in the drawing-room, ordered her upstairs in a peremptory
manner, which she resented, as treating her like a child, and therefore
proceeded in no amiable mood to the room, where Ethel awaited her in
wild tumultuous impatience
said Flora
said Ethel, beginning to perceive the secret of her displeasure
said Flora
said Flora
Ethel looked horrified by the assertion of independence, but Richard
called her from below, and, with one more fruitless entreaty, she ran
downstairs.

Richard had been hearing all from his father, and it was comfortable
to talk the matter over with him, and hear explained the anxiety which
frightened her, while she scarcely comprehended it; how Dr. May could
not feel certain whether it was right or expedient to promote an
engagement which must depend on health so uncertain as poor Margaret's,
and how he dreaded the effect on the happiness of both.

Ethel's romance seemed to be turning to melancholy, and she walked on
gravely and thoughtfully, though repeating that there could be no
doubt of Margaret's perfect recovery by the time of the return from the
voyage.

Her lessons were somewhat nervous and flurried, and even the sight of
two very nice neat new scholars, of very different appearance from the
rest, and of much superior attainments, only half interested her. Mary
was enchanted at them as a pair of prodigies, actually able to read! and
had made out their names, and their former abodes, and how they had been
used to go to school, and had just come to live in the cottage deserted
by the lamented Una.

Ethel thought it quite provoking in her brother to accede to Mary's
entreaties that they should go and call on this promising importation.
Even the children's information that they were taught now by "Sister
Cherry" failed to attract her; but Richard looked at his watch, and
decided that it was too soon to go home, and she had to submit to her
fate.

Very different was the aspect of the house from the wild Irish cabin
appearance that it had in the M'Carthy days. It was the remains of
an old farm-house that had seen better days, somewhat larger than the
general run of the Cocksmoor dwellings. Respectable furniture had taken
up its abode against the walls, the kitchen was well arranged, and,
in spite of the wretched flooring and broken windows, had an air of
comfort. A very tidy woman was bustling about, still trying to get rid
of the relics of her former tenants, who might, she much feared, have
left a legacy of typhus fever. The more interesting person was, however,
a young woman of three or four and twenty, pale, and very lame, and with
the air of a respectable servant, her manners particularly pleasing.
It appeared that she was the daughter of a first wife, and, after the
period of schooling, had been at service, but had been lamed by a fall
downstairs, and had been obliged to come home, just as scarcity of work
had caused her father to leave his native parish, and seek employment at
other quarries. She had hoped to obtain plain work, but all the family
were dismayed and disappointed at the wild spot to which they had come,
and anxiously availed themselves of this introduction to beg that the
elder boy and girl might be admitted into the town school, distant as it
was. At another time, the thought of Charity Elwood would have engrossed
Ethel's whole mind, now she could hardly attend, and kept looking
eagerly at Richard as he talked endlessly with the good mother. When,
at last, they did set off, he would not let her gallop home like a
steam-engine, but made her take his arm, when he found that she could
not otherwise moderate her steps. At the long hill a figure appeared,
and, as soon as Richard was certified of its identity, he let her fly,
like a bolt from a crossbow, and she stood by Dr. May's side.

A little ashamed, she blushed instead of speaking, and waited for
Richard to come up and begin. Neither did he say anything, and they
paused till, the silence disturbing her, she ventured a
cried Ethel
said Ethel
cried Ethel joyously
he
concluded, almost inaudibly.

It was indeed, to him, a time of great distress and perplexity, wishing
to act the part of father and mother both towards his daughter, acutely
feeling his want of calm decision, and torn to pieces at once by
sympathy with the lovers, and by delicacy that held him back from
seeming to bind the young man to an uncertain engagement, above all,
tortured by self-reproach for the commencement of the attachment, and
for the misfortune that had rendered its prosperity doubtful.

Ethel could find no words of comfort in the bewildered glimpse at his
sorrow and agitation. Richard spoke with calmness and good sense, and
his replies, though brief and commonplace, were not without effect in
lessening the excitement and despondency which the poor doctor's present
mood had been aggravating.

At the door, Dr. May asked for Flora, and Ethel explained. If Flora had
obtruded herself, he would have been irritated, but, as it was, he had
no time to observe the disobedience, and saying that he hoped she was
with Margaret, sent Ethel into the drawing-room.

Flora was not there, only Margaret lay on her sofa, and Ethel hesitated,
shy, curious, and alarmed; but, as she approached, she was relieved to
see the blue eyes more serene even than usual, while a glow of colour
spread over her face, making her like the blooming Margaret of old
times; her expression was full of peace, but became somewhat amused
at Ethel's timid, awkward pauses, as she held out her hands, and said
And Ethel was drawn into her sister's bosom. Presently she drew back,
gazed at her sister inquiringly, and said in an odd, doubtful voice
Margaret nearly laughed at the strange manner, but spoke with a
sorrowful tone
again said Ethel
and her
voice trembled
she added
the word was lost
said Ethel wistfully
said Margaret
The message quickened Ethel, and after giving it, and reporting
consolingly to her father, she went up to Flora, who had been a
voluntary prisoner upstairs all this time, and was not peculiarly
gratified at such tidings coming only through the medium of Ethel. She
had before been sensible that, superior in discretion and effectiveness
as she was acknowledged to be, she did not share so much of the
confidence and sympathy as some of the others, and she felt mortified
and injured, though in this case it was entirely her own fault. The
sense of alienation grew upon her.

She dressed quickly, and hurried down, that she might see Margaret
alone; but the room was already prepared for tea, and the children were
fast assembling. Ethel came down a few minutes after, and found Blanche
claiming Alan Ernescliffe as her lawful property, dancing round him,
chattering, and looking injured if he addressed a word to any one else.

How did lovers look? was a speculation which had, more than once,
occupied Ethel, and when she had satisfied herself that her father was
at ease, she began to study it, as soon as a shamefaced consciousness
would allow her, after Alan's warm shake of the hand.

Margaret looked much as usual, only with more glow and brightness -- Mr.
Ernescliffe, not far otherwise; he was as pale and slight as on his last
visit, with the same soft blue eyes, capable, however, of a peculiar,
keen, steady glance when he was listening, and which now seemed to be
attending to Margaret's every word or look, through all the delighted
uproar which Aubrey, Blanche, and Mary kept up round him, or while
taking his share in the general conversation, telling of Harry's
popularity and good conduct on board the Alcestis, or listening to the
history of Norman's school adventures, which he had heard, in part, from
Harry, and how young Jennings was entered in the flag-ship, as a boy,
though not yet to sail with his father.

After the storm of the day the sky seemed quite clear, and Ethel
could not see that being lovers made much difference; to be sure papa
displeased Blanche, by calling her away to his side, when she would
squeeze her chair in between Alan's and the sofa; and Alan took all the
waiting on Margaret exclusively to himself. Otherwise, there was nothing
remarkable, and he was very much the same Mr. Ernescliffe whom they had
received a year ago.

In truth, the next ten days were very happy. The future was left
to rest, and Alan spent his mornings in the drawing-room alone with
Margaret, and looked ever more brightly placid, while, with the rest, he
was more than the former kind playfellow, for he now took his place as
the affectionate elder brother, entering warmly into all their schemes
and pleasures, and winning for himself a full measure of affection from
all; even his little god-daughter began to know him, and smile at
his presence. Margaret and Ethel especially delighted in the look of
enjoyment with which their father sat down to enter on the evening's
conversation after the day's work; and Flora was well pleased that Mrs.
Hoxton should find Alan in the drawing-room, and ask afterwards about
his estate; and that Meta Rivers, after being certified that this was
their Mr. Ernescliffe, pronounced that her papa thought him particularly
pleasing and gentlemanlike. There was something dignified in having a
sister on the point of being engaged
Sail forth into the sea, thou ship,
       Through breeze and cloud, right onward steer;
     The moistened eye, the trembling lip,
       Are not the signs of doubt or fear!-- LONGFELLOW.


Tranquility only lasted until Mr. Ernescliffe found it necessary to
understand on what terms he was to stand. Every one was tender of
conscience, anxious to do right, and desirous to yield to the opinion
that nobody could, or would give. While Alan begged for a positive
engagement, Margaret scrupled to exchange promises that she might never
be able to fulfil, and both agreed to leave all to her father, who, in
every way, ought to have the best ability to judge whether there was
unreasonable presumption in such a betrothal; but this very ability only
served to perplex the poor doctor more and more. It is far easier for a
man to decide when he sees only one bearing of a case, than when, like
Dr. May, he not only sees them, but is rent by them in his inmost
heart. Sympathising in turn with each lover, bitterly accusing his own
carelessness as the cause of all their troubles, his doubts contending
with his hopes, his conviction clashing with Sir Matthew Fleet's
opinion, his conscientious sincerity and delicacy conflicting with
his affection and eagerness, he was perfectly incapable of coming to a
decision, and suffered so cruelly, that Margaret was doubly distressed
for his sake, and Alan felt himself guilty of having rendered everybody
miserable.

Dr. May could not conceal his trouble, and rendered Ethel almost as
unhappy as himself, after each conversation with her, though her hopes
usually sprang up again, and she had a happy conviction that this was
only the second volume of the novel. Flora was not often called into his
councils; confidence never came spontaneously from Dr. May to her; there
was something that did not draw it forth towards her, whether it resided
in that half-sarcastic corner of her steady blue eye, or in the grave
common-sense of her gentle voice. Her view of the case was known to be
that there was no need for so much perplexity -- why should not Alan be
the best judge of his own happiness? If Margaret were to be delicate for
life, it would be better to have such a home to look to; and she soothed
and comforted Margaret, and talked in a strain of unmixed hope and
anticipation that often drew a smile from her sister, though she feared
to trust to it.

Flora's tact and consideration in keeping the children away when the
lovers could best be alone, and letting them in when the discussion was
becoming useless and harassing, her cheerful smiles, her evening music
that covered all sounds, her removal of all extra annoyances, were
invaluable, and Margaret appreciated them, as, indeed, Flora took care
that she should.

Margaret begged to know her eldest brother's judgment, but had great
difficulty in dragging it out. Diffidently as it was proposed, it
was clear and decided. He thought that his father had better send Sir
Matthew Fleet a statement of Margaret's present condition, and abide
by his answer as to whether her progress warranted the hope of her
restoration.

Never was Richard more surprised than by the gratitude with which his
suggestion was hailed, simple as it was, so that it seemed obvious
that others should have already thought of it. After the tossings of
uncertainty, it was a positive relief to refer the question to some
external voice, and only Ethel and Norman expressed strong dislike to
Sir Matthew becoming the arbiter of Margaret's fate, and were scarcely
pacified by Dr. May's assurance that he had not revealed the occasion of
his inquiry. The letter was sent, and repose returned, but hearts beat
high on the morning when the answer was expected.

Dr. May watched the moment when his daughter was alone, carried the
letter to her, and kissing her, said, with an oppressed voice
She read with suspended breath and palpitating heart. Sir Matthew
thought her improvement sure, though slow, and had barely a doubt that,
in a year, she would have regained her full strength and activity
said Dr. May, as Margaret lifted her eyes to
his face inquiringly
she said
he answered
he added wistfully
Mr. Ernescliffe was with her as the doctor quitted her. She held the
letter to him
she said slowly
he exclaimed, between entreaty and
authority
cried he, as he glanced hastily over the letter
said Margaret
she added, smiling
Margaret absolutely depended on the bright cheerful look of conviction
she said
said Margaret, smiling
said he, archly reading her face to draw out the
avowal, but he only made her hide it, with a mute caress of the hand
that held hers. She was glad enough to rest in the present, now that
everything concurred to satisfy her conscience in so doing, and come
what might, the days now spent together would be a possession of joy for
ever.

Captain Gordon contrived to afford his lieutenant another fortnight's
leave, perhaps because he was in dread of losing him altogether, for
Alan had some doubts, and many longings to remain. Had it been possible
to marry at once, he would have quitted the navy immediately; and he
would have given worlds to linger beside Margaret's couch, and claim her
the first moment possible, believing his care more availing than all. He
was, however, so pledged to Captain Gordon, that, without strong cause,
he would not have been justified in withdrawing; besides, Harry was
under his charge, and Dr. May and Margaret both thought, with the
captain, that an active life would be a better occupation for him than
watching her. He would never be able to settle down at his new home
comfortably without her, and he would be more in the way of duty while
pursuing his profession, so Margaret nerved herself against using her
influence to detain him, and he thanked her for it.

Though hope and affection could not an once repair an injured spine,
they had wonderful powers in inciting Margaret to new efforts. Alan
was as tender and ready of hand as Richard, and more clever and
enterprising; and her unfailing trust in him prevented all alarms and
misgivings, so that wonders were effected, and her father beheld her
standing with so little support, looking so healthful and so blithe,
that his forebodings melted away, and he talked joyously of the future.

The great achievement was taking her round the garden. She could not
bear the motion of wheels, but Alan adopted the hammock principle, and,
with the aid of Richard and his crony, the carpenter, produced a machine
in which no other power on earth could have prevailed on her to trust
herself, but in which she was carried round the garden so successfully,
that there was even a talk of next Sunday, and of the Minster.

It was safely accomplished, and tired as she was, Margaret felt, as
she whispered to Alan, that he had now crowned all the joy that he had
brought to her.

Ethel used to watch them, and think how beautiful their countenances
were, and talk them over with her father, who was quite happy about them
now. She gave assistance, which Alan never once called unhandy, to all
his contrivances, and often floundered in upon his conferences with
Margaret, in a way that would have been very provoking, if she had not
always blushed and looked so excessively discomfited, and they had only
to laugh and reassure her.

Alan was struck by finding that the casual words spoken on the way from
Cocksmoor had been so strenuously acted on, and he brought on himself
a whole torrent of Ethel's confused narratives, which Richard and Flora
would fain have checked; but Margaret let them continue, as she saw him
a willing listener, and was grateful to him for comprehending the ardent
girl.

He declared himself to have a share in the matter, reminding Ethel of
her appeal to him to bind himself to the service of Cocksmoor. He sent
a sovereign at once, to aid in a case of the sudden death of a pig; and
when securely established in his brotherly right, he begged Ethel to
let him know what would help her most. She stood colouring, twisting
her hands, and wondering what to say, whereupon he relieved her by a
proposal to leave an order for ten pounds, to be yearly paid into her
hands, as a fixed income for her school.

A thousand a year could hardly have been so much to Ethel
said Alan, turning to Margaret, as Ethel frantically
burst out of the room
said Margaret
said Alan, musing
he said sadly
said Margaret, who had been listening with a smile
said the sailor.

They often spoke together of this scheme, ever decking it in brighter
colours. The topic seemed to suit them better than their own future, for
there was no dwelling on that without an occasional misgiving, and
the more glad the anticipation, the deeper the sigh that followed on
Margaret's part, till Mr. Ernescliffe followed her lead, and they seldom
spoke of these uncertainties, but outwardly smiled over the present,
inwardly dwelt on the truly certain hopes. There were readings shared
together, made more precious than all, by the conversations that ensued.

The hour for parting came at last. Ethel never knew what passed in the
drawing-room, whence every one was carefully excluded. Dr. May wandered
about, keeping guard over the door, and watching the clock, till, at the
last moment, he knocked, and called in a trembling voice
The other farewells were hurried; Alan seemed voiceless, only nodding in
reply to Mary's vociferous messages to Harry, and huskily whispering to
Ethel
The next moment the door had shut on him, and Dr. May and Flora had gone
to her sister, whom she found not tearful, but begging to be left alone.

When they saw her again, she was cheerful; she kept up her composure and
animation without flagging, nor did she discontinue her new exertions,
but seemed decidedly the happier for all that had passed.

Letters came every day for her, and presents to every one. Ethel had a
gold chain and eyeglass, which, it was hoped, might cure her of frowning
and stooping, though her various ways of dangling her new possession
caused her to be so much teased by Flora and Norman, that, but for
regard to Margaret's feelings, she would not have worn it for three
days.

To Mary was sent a daguerreotype of Harry, her glory and delight. Say,
who would, that it had pig's eyes, a savage frown, a pudding chin,
there were his own tight rings of hair, his gold-banded cap, his bright
buttons, how could she prize it enough? She exhibited it to the little
ones ten times a day, she kissed it night and morning, and registered
her vow always to sleep with it under her
in a letter of
thanks, which Margaret defended and despatched, in spite of Miss
Winter's horrors at its disregard of orthography.

It was nearly the last letter before the Alcestis was heard of at
Spithead. Then she sailed; she sent in her letters to Plymouth, and her
final greetings by a Falmouth cutter -- poor Harry's wild scrawl in pencil
looking very sea-sick
It was enclosed in Mr. Ernescliffe's envelope, and with it came
tidings that Harry's brave spirit was not failing, even under untoward
circumstances, but he had struggled on deck, and tried to write,
when all his contemporaries had given in; in fact, he was a fine
fellow -- every one liked him, and Captain Gordon, though chary of
commendation, had held him up to the other youngsters as an example of
knowing what a sailor was meant to be like.

Margaret smiled, and cried over the news when she imparted it -- but all
serenely -- and though she was glad to be alone, and wrote journals for
Alan, when she could not send letters, she exerted herself to be the
same sister as usual to the rest of the household, and not to give way
to her wandering musings.

From one subject her attention never strayed. Ethel had never found any
lack of sympathy in her for her Cocksmoor pursuits; but the change now
showed that, where once Margaret had been interested merely as a kind
sister, she now had a personal concern, and she threw herself into all
that related to it as her own chief interest and pursuit -- becoming the
foremost in devising plans, and arranging the best means of using Mr.
Ernescliffe's benefaction.

The Elwood family had grown in the good opinion of the Mays. Charity
had hobbled to church, leaning on her father's arm, and being invited
to dinner in the kitchen, the acquaintance had been improved, and nurse
herself had pronounced her such a tidy, good sort of body, that it was
a pity she had met with such a misfortune. If Miss Ethel brought in
nothing but the like of her, they should be welcome; poor thing, how
tired she was!

Nurse's opinions were apt to be sagacious, especially when in the face
of her prejudices, and this gave Margaret confidence. Cherry proved to
have been carefully taught by a good clergyman and his wife, and to
be of very different stamp from the persons to whom the girls were
accustomed. They were charmed with her, and eagerly offered to supply
her with books -- respecting her the more when they found that Mr.
Hazlewood had already lent her their chief favourites. Other and greater
needs they had no power to fill up
said Mrs.
Elwood
cried Mary, looking at her with respect
said Cherry
said Ethel
said Ethel
Mr. Hazlewood was recollected by Mr. Wilmot as an old college friend,
and a correspondence with him fully confirmed the favourable estimate of
the Elwoods, and was decisive in determining that the day-school, with
Alan's ten pounds as salary, and a penny a week from each child, should
be offered to Cherry.

Mr. Hazlewood answered for her sound excellence, and aptitude for
managing little children, though he did not promise genius, such as
should fulfil the requirements of modern days. With these Cocksmoor
could dispense at present; Cherry was humbly gratified, and her parents
delighted with the honour and profit; there was a kitchen which afforded
great facilities, and Richard and his carpenter managed the fitting to
admiration; Margaret devised all manner of useful arrangements, settled
matters with great earnestness, saw Cherry frequently, discussed plans,
and learned the history and character of each child, as thoroughly as
Ethel herself. Mr. Ramsden himself came to the opening of the school,
and said so much of the obligations of Cocksmoor to the young ladies,
that Ethel would not have known which way to look, if Flora had not
kindly borne the brunt of his compliments.

Every one was pleased, except Mrs. Green, who took upon herself to set
about various malicious reports of Cherry Elwood; but nobody cared for
them, except Mrs. Elwood, who flew into such passions, that Ethel was
quite disappointed in her, though not in Cherry, who meekly tried to
silence her mother, begged the young ladies not to be vexed, and showed
a quiet dignity that soon made the shafts of slander fall inoffensively.

All went well; there was a school instead of a hubbub, clean faces
instead of dirty, shining hair instead of wild elf-locks, orderly
children instead of little savages. The order and obedience that Ethel
could not gain in six months, seemed impressed in six days by Cherry;
the neat work made her popular with the mothers, her firm gentleness
won the hearts of the children, and the kitchen was filled not only with
boys and girls from the quarry, but with some little ones from outlying
cottages of Fordholm and Abbotstoke, and there was even a smart little
farmer, who had been unbearable at home.

Margaret's unsuccessful bath-chair was lent to Cherry, and in it her
scholars drew her to Stoneborough every Sunday, and slowly began to
redeem their character with the ladies, who began to lose the habit of
shrinking out of their way -- the Stoneborough children did so instead;
and Flora and Ethel were always bringing home stories of injustice
to their scholars, fancied or real, and of triumphs in their having
excelled any national school girl. The most stupid children at Cocksmoor
always seemed to them wise in comparison with the Stoneborough girls,
and the Sunday-school might have become to Ethel a school of rivalry,
if Richard had not opened her eyes by a quiet observation, that the town
girls seemed to fare as ill with her, as the Cocksmoor girls did with
the town ladies. Then she caught herself up, tried to be candid, and
found that she was not always impartial in her judgments. Why would
competition mingle even in the best attempts?

Cherry did not so bring forward her scholars that Ethel could have many
triumphs of this dangerous kind. Indeed, Ethel was often vexed with
her; for though she taught needlework admirably, and enforced correct
reading, and reverent repetition, her strong provincial dialect was a
stumbling-block; she could not put questions without book, and nothing
would teach her Ethel's rational system of arithmetic. That she was a
capital dame, and made the children very good, was allowed; but now and
then, when mortified by hearing what was done at Stoneborough, Fordholm,
or Abbotstoke, Ethel would make vigorous efforts, which resulted only in
her coming home fuming at Cherry's
These railings always hurt Margaret, who had made Cherry almost into a
friend, and generally liked to have a visit from her during the
Sunday, when she always dined with the servants. Then school questions,
Cocksmoor news, and the tempers of the children, were talked over, and
Cherry was now and then drawn into home reminiscences, and descriptions
of the ways of her former school. There was no fear of spoiling
her -- notice from her superiors was natural to her, and she had the
lady-likeness of womanly goodness, so as never to go beyond her own
place. She had had many trials too, and Margaret learned the true
history of them, as she won Cherry's confidence, and entered into them,
feeling their likeness, yet dissimilarity, to her own.

Cherry had been a brisk happy girl in a good place, resting in one of
the long engagements that often extend over half the life of a servant,
enjoying the nod of her baker as he left his bread, and her walk from
church with him on alternate Sundays. But poor Cherry had been exposed
to the perils of window-cleaning; and, after a frightful fall, had
wakened to find herself in a hospital, and her severe sufferings had
left her a cripple for life.

And the baker had not been an Alan Ernescliffe! She did not complain of
him -- he had come to see her, and had been much grieved, but she had
told him she could never be a useful wife; and, before she had used her
crutches, he was married to her pretty fellow-servant.

Cherry spoke very simply; she hoped it was better for Long, and believed
Susan would make him a good wife. Ethel would have thought she did not
feel, but Margaret knew better.

She stroked the thin slight fingers, and gently said
and
Cherry wiped away a tear, and said
Margaret sighed, as she remembered certain thoughts before Alan's
return
said Cherry, brightening
Cherry's tears had come again
and she stopped short,
and rose to depart. Margaret held out her hand to wish her good-bye
And Margaret lay questioning with herself, whether the schoolmistress
had not been the most self-denying of the two; but withal gazing on the
hoop of pearls which Alan had chosen as the ring of betrothal
murmured she to herself
Heart affluence in household talk,
     From social fountains never dry.-- TENNYSON
cried Dr. May, half amused, half irate
said Ethel
continued Dr. May, while the girls burst out laughing, and Norman looked
injured
said Flora
said Norman
said Flora
she added, patting his
shoulders between jest and earnest
cried Ethel
said the
doctor
said Ethel, in vexation, though he gave her a pinch to show it
was all in good humour, while he went on
muttered Norman, though
he contrived to smile, and followed Flora out of the room, without
subjecting himself to the imputation of offended dignity.

Ethel was displeased, and began her defence
and there
she checked herself
said her father, who seemed in a
somewhat mischievous mood of teasing
cried she
the words would come
said Dr. May
said Dr. May
cried Ethel
said Dr. May, smiling
began Ethel
Two or three days after, as Ethel was going to the schoolroom after
breakfast, Dr. May beckoned her back to the dining-room, and, with his
merry look of significance, said
pleaded Ethel
said Dr. May, hesitating for a word
added the doctor mournfully
he added, half
smiling
cried Ethel
said Dr. May, as
though hoping for a loop-hole to escape offending the shade of Bishop
Whichcote
said Ethel
said Dr. May
asked Ethel
said Ethel
said the doctor, lingering
and he dashed off to his work, while Ethel
stood laughing
said Norman tremulously, when Ethel followed
him to his room, to congratulate him on having gained his father's
assent, of which he had been more in doubt than she
cried Norman
said Norman
he said, with disproportionate vehemence
said Norman impatiently
said Ethel, in a mortified voice
exclaimed Ethel.

Norman went into a fit of laughing
she cried vehemently.

A brotherly home-truth followed
was
muttered by Norman, still laughing heartily
said Ethel, not in the least offended
said Norman.

Ethel squeezed up her eyes, curled up her nose, showed her teeth in
a horrible grimace, and made a sort of snarl
and then, with another good-night, ran to her own
room.

Norman was, to a certain extent, right with regard to Margaret -- her
thoughts and interest had been chiefly engrossed by Alan Ernescliffe,
and so far drawn away from her own family, that when the Alcestis was
absolutely gone beyond all reach of letters for the present, Margaret
could not help feeling somewhat of a void, and as if the home concerns
were not so entire an occupation for her mind as formerly.

She would fain have thrown herself into them again, but she became
conscious that there was a difference. She was still the object of her
father's intense tenderness and solicitude, indeed she could not be
otherwise, but it came over her sometimes that she was less necessary
to him than in the first year. He was not conscious of any change, and,
indeed, it hardly amounted to a change, and yet Margaret, lying inactive
and thoughtful, began to observe that the fullness of his confidence was
passing to Ethel. Now and then it would appear that he fancied he had
told Margaret little matters, when he had really told them to Ethel;
and it was Ethel who would linger with him in the drawing-room after
the others had gone up at night, or who would be late at the morning's
reading, and disarm Miss Winter, by pleading that papa had been talking
to her. The secret they shared together was, of course, the origin of
much of this; but also Ethel was now more entirely the doctor's own than
Margaret could be after her engagement; and there was a likeness of mind
between the father and daughter that could not but develop more in
this year, than in all Ethel's life, when she had made the most rapid
progress. Perhaps, too, the doctor looked on Margaret rather as
the authority and mistress of his house, while Ethel was more of a
playfellow; and thus, without either having the least suspicion that
the one sister was taking the place of the other, and without any actual
neglect of Margaret, Ethel was his chief companion
said Margaret, one day, when he
had rushed in at the dinner-hour, asking for his father, and, when he
could not find him, shouting out for Ethel
said Flora
stepping to the
door, and calling in her sister, who came from the street door, her hair
blowing about with the wind
said Ethel,
looking very confused and very merry
said Flora
said Ethel,
laughing
exclaimed Flora
said Ethel
and she capered a little
said Margaret
replied
Flora, sitting down again, while Ethel ran away to guard her secret
muttered Flora
said Margaret
gently
said Flora
said Margaret, with half a sigh.

Flora might toss her head, but she attempted no denial in words
continued Margaret
said Flora
said Margaret
Margaret turned away her head, but presently looked up again
she said
thought Flora
Flora took Margaret's advice, and did not reproach Ethel, for a little
reflection convinced her that she should make a silly figure in so
doing, and she did not like altercations.

It was the same evening that Norman came in from school with his hands
full of papers, and, with one voice, his father and Ethel exclaimed
and he gave the letter to his father, while Blanche, who had a
very inquisitive pair of eyes, began to read from a paper he placed on
the table
and, as he did not attend, she called Mary
to share her speculations, and spell out the words
cried Dr. May
cried Mary
interposed Blanche knowingly
said Mary
persisted Blanche
said
Dr. May, much diverted with the young ladies' conjectures
said Mary, making her eyes as round as full moons
repeated Blanche
whispered Norman, a good deal out of countenance, as he
leaned over Ethel, and quitted the room.

Ethel cried
and looked at her father, while Blanche and
Mary reiterated inquiries -- marriage, and going to sea, being the only
events that, in their imagination, the world could furnish. Going to
try for a Balliol scholarship! It was a sad falling off, even if they
understood what it meant. The doctor's explanations to Margaret had a
tone of apology for having kept her in ignorance, and Flora said few
words, but felt herself injured; she had nearly gone to Mrs. Hoxton that
afternoon, and how strange it would have been if anything had been said
to her of her own brother's projects, when she was in ignorance.

Ethel slipped away to her brother, who was in his own room, surrounded
with books, flushed and anxious, and trying to glance over each subject
on which he felt himself weak
was his exclamation
cried Ethel, in
consternation
So they went on, Ethel doing her best to help and encourage, and Norman
in an excited state of restless despair, which drove away half his
senses and recollection, and his ideas of the superior powers of public
schoolboys magnifying every moment. They were summoned downstairs to
prayers, but went up again at once, and more than an hour subsequently,
when their father paid one of his domiciliary visits, there they still
were, with their Latin and Greek spread out, Norman trying to strengthen
all doubtful points, but in a desperate desultory manner, that only
confused him more and more, till he was obliged to lay his head down on
the table, shut his eyes, and run his fingers through his hair, before
he could recollect the simplest matter; his renderings alternated with
groans, and, cold as was the room, his cheeks and brow were flushed and
burning.

The doctor checked all this, by saying, gravely and sternly
said Dr. May, laying his hand on his shoulder
said Norman,
hesitating in some confusion
said Dr. May
said Ethel
The boy and girl were both silent
continued his
father
murmured Norman
said Norman, with trembling voice, almost as if he
could have burst into tears. He was quite unnerved by the anxiety
and toil with which he had overtasked himself, beyond his father's
knowledge
pleaded Ethel, who could not bear to see him pained
continued Dr. May, who felt it was the moment for
bracing severity
Again Ethel made an exclamation of entreaty
repeated Norman
said the doctor
asked Norman, in a worn-out voice
Norman moved his head, as if sleep were beyond his power
said Dr. May, and he took
up a Prayer-book
Norman had cast down his eyes, and hardly made answer, but the words
had evidently taken effect. The doctor only further bade him good-night,
with a whispered blessing, and, taking Ethel by the hand, drew her away.
When they met the next morning, the excitement had passed from Norman's
manner, but he looked dejected and resigned. He had made up his mind
to lose, and was not grateful for good wishes; he ought never to have
thought, he said, of competing with men from public schools, and he knew
his return of love of vain-glory deserved that he should fail. However,
he was now calm enough not to be likely to do himself injustice by
nervousness, and Margaret hid hopes that Richard's steady equable mind
would have a salutary influence. So, commending Tom's lessons to Ethel,
and hearing, but not marking, countless messages to Richard, he set
forth upon his emprise, while his anxiety seemed to remain as a legacy
for those at home.

Poor Dr. May confessed that his practice by no means agreed with his
precept, for he could think of nothing else, and was almost as bad as
Norman, in his certainty that the boy would fail from mere nervousness.
Margaret was the better companion for him now, attaching less intensity
of interest to Norman's success than did Ethel; she was the more able to
compose him, and cheer his hopes
Weary soul, and burdened sore,
       Labouring with thy secret load,
     Fear not all thy griefs to pour
       In this heart, love's true abode.
                                   Lyra Innocentium.


Tea had just been brought in on the eighth evening from Norman's
departure, when there was a ring at the bell. There was a start, and
look of expectation
said the doctor; but it surely
was not for that reason that he rose with so much alacrity and opened
the door, nor was
the greeting for his patients -- so
everybody sprang after him, and beheld something tall taking off a coat,
while a voice said
The mass of children rushed back to Margaret, screaming
and then Aubrey trotted out into the hall again to see what Norman
had got
said Margaret, as he came to her. And that was
not peculiar to Norman. The radiance had shone out upon every one
in that moment, and it was one buzz of happy exclamation, query, and
answer -- the only tone of regret when Mary spoke of Harry, and all
at once took up the strain -- how glad poor Harry would be. As to the
examination, that had been much less difficult than Norman had expected;
in fact, he said, it was lucky for him that the very subjects had been
chosen in which he was most up -- luck which, as the doctor could not help
observing, generally did attend Norman. And Norman had been so happy
with Richard; the kind, wise elder brother had done exactly what was
best for him in soothing his anxiety, and had fully shared his feelings,
and exulted in his success. Margaret had a most triumphant letter,
dwelling on the abilities of the candidates whom Norman had outstripped,
and the idea that every one had conceived of his talent
wrote
Richard
Margaret could not help reading this aloud, and it made Norman blush
with the compunction that Richard's unselfish pride in him always
excited. He had much to tell of his ecstasy with Oxford. Stoneborough
Minster had been a training in appreciation of its hoary beauty, but the
essentially prosaic Richard had never prepared him for the impression
that the reverend old university made on him, and he was already, heart
and soul, one of her most loyal and loving sons, speaking of his college
and of the whole university as one who had a right of property in them,
and looking, all the time, not elated, but contented, as if he had found
his sphere and was satisfied. He had seen Cheviot, too, and had been
very happy in the renewed friendship; and had been claimed as a cousin
by a Balliol man, a certain Norman Ogilvie, a name well known among the
Mays
he asked, when he returned to
home affairs
said Ethel
exclaimed Norman
said Ethel, laughing
said Norman
said Ethel
The little, pale, rough-haired Tom, in his perpetual coating of dust,
softly crept into the room, as if he only wanted to elude observation;
but Mary and Blanche were at once vociferating their news in his ears,
though with little encouragement -- he only shook them off abruptly, and
would not answer when they required him to be glad.

Norman stretched out his arm, intercepting him as he was making for his
hiding-place behind Dr. May's arm-chair
muttered Tom in his throat, and well he might, for two
or three voices cried out that was too bad, and that it was all his own
fault, for not accepting Ethel's help. He took little heed, but crept to
his corner without another word, and Mary knew she should be thumped if
she should torment him there.

Norman left him alone, but the coldness of the little brother for whom
he had worked gave a greater chill to his pleasure than he could have
supposed possible. He would rather have had some cordiality on Tom's
part, than all the congratulations that met him the next day.

He could not rest contented while Tom continued to shrink from him, and
he was the more uneasy when, on Saturday morning, no calls from Mary
availed to find the little boy, and bring him to the usual reading and
Catechism.

Margaret decided that they must begin without him, and poor Mary's verse
was read, in consequence, with a most dolorous tone. As soon as the
books were shut, she ran off, and a few words passed among the elder
ones about the truant -- Flora opining that the Andersons had led him
away; Ethel suggesting that his gloom must arise from his not being
well; and Margaret looking wistfully at Norman, and saying she feared
they had judged much amiss last spring. Norman heard in silence, and
walked thoughtfully into the garden. Presently he caught Mary's voice in
expostulation
growled another voice, out of sight
Norman, who was going round the shrubs that concealed the speakers from
him, here lost their voices, but, as he emerged in front of the old
tool-house, he heard a little scream from Mary, and, at the same moment,
she darted back, and fell over a heap of cabbage-stumps in front of the
old tool-house. It was no small surprise to her to be raised by him, and
tenderly asked whether she were hurt. She was not hurt, but she could
not speak without crying, and when Norman begged to hear what was the
matter, and where Tom was, she would only plead for him -- that he did not
intend to hurt her, and that she had been teasing him. What had he done
to frighten her? Oh! he had only run at her with a hoe, because she was
troublesome; she did not mind it, and Norman must not -- and she clung
to him as if to keep him back, while he pursued his researches in the
tool-house, where, nearly concealed by a great bushel-basket, lurked
Master Thomas, crouching down, with a volume of Gil Blas in his hand
said Tom sulkily.

Norman sent Mary away, pacifying her by promises that he would not
revenge her quarrel upon Tom, and then, turning the basket upside down,
and perching himself astride on it, he began
No answer;
and Norman, for a moment, felt as if Tom were really hopelessly
ill-conditioned and sullen, but he persevered in restraining his
desire to cuff the ill-humour out of him, and continued
He took Tom by the arm to draw him nearer, but a cry and start of pain
were the result
sighed Tom
and, by-and-by, a sobbing
confession was drawn forth, muttered at intervals, as low as if Tom
expected the strings of onions to hear and betray him to his foes.
Looking on him as a deserter, these town-boys had taken advantage of his
brother's absence to heap on him every misery they could inflict. There
had been a wager between Edward Anderson and Sam Axworthy as to what
Tom could be made to do, and his personal timidity made him a miserable
victim, not merely beaten and bruised, but forced to transgress every
rule of right and wrong that had been enforced on his conscience.
On Sunday, they had profited by the absence of their dux to have a
jollification at a little public-house, not far from the playing-fields;
and here had Tom been dragged in, forced to partake with them, and
frightened with threats that he had treated them all, and was liable
to pay the whole bill, which, of course, he firmly believed, as well
as that he should be at least half murdered if he gave his father any
suspicion that the whole had not been consumed by himself. Now, though
poor Tom's conscience had lost many scruples during the last spring,
the offence, into which he had been forced, was too heinous to a child
brought up as he had been to be palliated even in his own eyes. The
profanation of Sunday, and the carousal in a public-house, had combined
to fill him with a sense of shame and degradation, which was the real
cause that he felt himself unworthy to come and read with his sisters.
His grief and misery were extreme, and Norman's indignation was such
as could find no utterance. He sat silent, quivering with anger, and
clenching his fingers over the handle of the hoe
sighed Tom
said poor Tom, feeling his
future life stained
and the poor victim's voice died away
It did not produce the ecstasy Norman had expected. The boy still sat
on the ground, staring at his brother, as if the good news hardly
penetrated the gloom; and, after a disappointing silence, recurred to
the most immediate cause of distress
said Norman, rather
angrily
asked Tom, in
alarm
said Norman
Norman assured him that there was not the slightest reason that these
passages should ever come to the knowledge of his sisters. Tom was
excessively afraid of his father, but he could not well be more wretched
than he was already; and he was brought to assent when Norman showed
him that he had never been happy since the affair of the blotting-paper,
when his father's looks and tones had become objects of dread to his
guilty conscience. Was not the only means of recovering a place in
papa's esteem to treat him with confidence?

Tom answered not, and would only shudder when his brother took upon him
to declare that free confession would gain pardon even for the doings at
the Green Man.

Tom had grown stupefied and passive, and his sole dependence was on
Norman, so, at last, he made no opposition when his brother offered to
conduct him to his father and speak for him. The danger now was that
Dr. May should not be forthcoming, and the elder brother was as much
relieved, as the younger was dismayed, to see, through the drawing-room
window, that he was standing beside Margaret
said Norman
said the doctor, entering the hall
as he saw the poor child, white, cold, almost sick
with apprehension, with every pulse throbbing, and looking positively
ill. He took the chilly, damp hand, which shook nervously, and would
fain have withdrawn itself
and before Tom knew what he
was doing, he had seated him on his knee, in the arm-chair in the study,
and was feeling his pulse
said Norman
Tom would fain have been on his feet, yet the support of that shoulder
was inexpressibly comfortable to his aching temples, and he could not
but wait for the shock of being roughly shaken and put down. So, as his
brother related what had occurred, he crouched and trembled more and
more on his father's breast, till, to his surprise, he found the other
arm passed round him in support, drawing him more tenderly close
said Dr. May, trying to look into the drooping
face
said Norman, much distressed by the condition of the
culprit
said Dr. May
Tom clung round his neck,
as if to steady himself
Tom did not speak, but nestled up to him with more confidence
said Norman
The answer was hardly audible. The little boy was already almost asleep,
worn out with all he had undergone. Norman began to clear the sofa, that
they might lay him down, but his father would not hear of disturbing
him, and, sending Norman away, sat still for more than an hour, until
the child slowly awoke, and scarcely recalling what had happened, stood
up between his father's knees, rubbing his eyes, and looking bewildered
slowly murmured Tom, as the past
returned on him
said the boy, still half asleep
muttered Tom, looking down
There could be but one response to this speech.

Tom was still giddy and unwell, his whole frame affected by the troubles
of the last week, and Dr. May arranged him on the sofa, and desired
him to be quiet, offering to send Mary to be his companion. Tom was
languidly pleased, but renewed his entreaty, that his confession
might be a secret from his sisters. Dr. May promised, and Mary, quite
satisfied at being taken into favour, asked no questions, but spent
the rest of the morning in playing at draughts with him, and in having
inflicted on her the history of the Bloody Fire King's Ghost -- a work
of Tom's imagination, which he was wont to extemporise, to the extreme
terror of much enduring Mary.

When Dr. May had called Mary, he next summoned Norman, who found him in
the hall, putting on his hat, and looking very stern and determined
said he hastily
Norman's face expressed utter consternation
said Dr. May,
walking impetuously into the garden
said Norman
said Dr. May, almost petulantly
Norman's words had not been many, but he felt a conviction that, in
spite of the dismay and pain to himself, Dr. May ought to meet with
submission to his judgment, and he acquiesced by silence
continued the doctor
said Norman, not without a sigh
said Dr. May, as if much relieved
answered Norman warmly
said Norman, carried along by the indignation and
tenderness that agitated his father's voice in his vehemence
said Dr. May
said Norman, still reluctantly
said his father
said Norman, with gratitude
hesitated Norman
The doctor let himself out at the garden gate, and strode off at a rapid
pace, conscious perhaps, in secret, that if he did not at once yield
to the impulse of resentment, good nature would overpower the sense of
justice. His son returned to the house with a heavy sigh, yet honouring
the generosity that had respected his scruples, when merely his own
worldly loss was involved, but set them aside when the good of others
was concerned. By-and-by Dr. May reappeared. The head-master had been
thoroughly roused to anger, and had begged at once to examine May
junior, for whom his father was now come.

Tom was quite unprepared for such formidable consequences of his
confession, and began by piteous tears and sobs, and when these had,
with some difficulty, been pacified, he proved to be really so unwell
and exhausted, that his father could not take him to Minster Street, and
was obliged to leave him to his brother's keeping, while he returned to
the school.

Upon this, Dr. Hoxton came himself, and the sisters were extremely
excited and alarmed by the intelligence that he was in the study with
papa and Tom.

Then away went the gentlemen; and Mary was again called to comfort Tom,
who, broken down into the mere longing for sympathy, sobbed out all his
troubles to her, while her eyes expanded more and more in horror, and
her soft heart giving way, she cried quite as pitifully, and a great
deal more loudly; and so the other sisters learned the whole, and
Margaret was ready for her father when he came in, in the evening,
harassed and sorrowful. His anger was all gone now, and he was
excessively grieved at finding that the ringleaders, Samuel Axworthy and
Edward Anderson, could, in Dr. Hoxton's opinion, receive no sentence but
expulsion, which was to be pronounced on them on Monday.

Sam Axworthy was the son of a low, uneducated man, and his best chance
had been the going to this school; but he was of a surly, obstinate
temper, and showed so little compunction, that even such superabundant
kindness as Dr. May's could not find compassion for him; especially
since it had appeared that Tom had been by no means the only victim, and
that he had often been the promoter of the like malpractices, which many
boys were relieved to be forced to expose.

For Edward Anderson, however, or rather for his mother, Dr. May was very
sorry, and had even interceded for his pardon; but Dr. Hoxton, though
slow to be roused, was far less placable than the other doctor, and
would not hear of anything but the most rigorous justice
Flora spoke it
with a shade of contemptuous pity, but it made her father groan
said Flora
continued Dr. May
was the general cry -- Norman's voice giving decision to the
sisters' exclamation
said Margaret
said her father
said Margaret
said Flora
said Norman
Poor Mrs. Anderson! her shower of notes rent the heart of the one
doctor, but were tossed carelessly aside by the other. On that Sunday,
Norman held various conversations with his probable successor, Ashe,
a gentle, well-disposed boy, hitherto in much dread of the post of
authority, but owning that, in Axworthy's absence, the task would be
comparatively easy, and that Anderson would probably originate far less
mischief.

Edward Anderson himself fell in Norman's way in the street, and was
shrinking aside, when a word, of not unfriendly greeting, caused him to
quicken his steps, and say, hesitatingly
continued Edward, hanging down his head, very sorrowful and downcast
said Norman.

Edward's eyes were full of tears; he almost owned the whole. He had
not thought of such things, and then Axworthy -- It was more evident from
manner than words that the boy did repent and was greatly overcome,
both by his own disgrace and his mother's distress, wishing earnestly to
redeem his character, and declaring, from the bottom of his heart, that
he would avoid his former offences. He was emboldened at last to say,
with hesitation
Edward's eye glanced towards Norman in wonder, as he recollected that
the Mays must know that a word from him would have saved Norman
from unjust punishment and the loss of the scholarship, and he said
and turned aside to his own home, with a heavy sigh.

Norman took another turn, looked up at the sky, twisted his hands
together in perplexity, mumbled something about hating to do a thing
when it was all for no use, and then marched off towards Minster Street,
with a pace like his father's the day before.

When he came forth again from Dr. Hoxton's study, he did not believe
that his intercession had produced the least effect, and there was a
sense of vexation at the position which he had assumed. He went home,
and said nothing on the subject; but when, on Monday, the school was
assembled, and the judgment announced, it was Axworthy alone whose
friends had been advised to remove him.

Anderson received a severe punishment, as did all those who had shared
in the revel at the Green Man. Even Tom, and another little boy, who had
been likewise drawn in, were obliged to stay within narrow bounds, and
to learn heavy impositions; and a stern reprimand and exhortation were
given to the school collectively. Anderson, who had seen from the window
that turn towards Minster Street, drew his own conclusions, and was not
insensible to the generosity that had surpassed his hopes, though to his
faltering attempt at thanks, Norman replied that he did not believe
it was owing to him, and never exposed himself to Flora's wonder by
declaring at home what he had done.

So the last weeks of the half-year passed away with the boys in a
subdued, but hopeful manner, and the reformation, under Norman's
auspices, progressed so well, that Ashe might fairly expect to reap the
benefit of the discipline, established at so much cost.

Mr. Wilmot had looked on, and given his help, but he was preparing to
leave Stoneborough, and there was great concern at the parting with such
a friend. Ethel, especially, mourned the loss to Cocksmoor, and, for
though hers had been the executive part, his had been the head, and he
was almost equally grieved to go from the newly-begun work.

Margaret lamented the loss of her kind counsellor, and the ready hearer
of her anxieties for the children. Writing could ill supply the place of
their conversations, and she feared likewise that her father would
feel the want of his companionship. The promise of visits, and
the intercourse kept up by Tom's passing to and fro, was the best
consolation.

Poor Margaret had begun to flag, both in strength and spirits, as winter
approached, but there came a revival in the shape of
Alan wrote cheerfully and graphically, with excellent accounts of Harry,
who, on his side, sent very joyous and characteristic despatches, only
wishing that he could present Mary with all the monkeys and parrots he
had seen at Rio, as well as the little ruby-crested humming-birds, that
always reminded him of Miss Rivers.

With the Christmas holidays, Hector Ernescliffe came from Eton, as to a
home, and was received by Margaret as a sort of especial charge. It was
pretty to see how he turned to her as something peculiarly his own,
and would sit on a footstool by her, letting himself be drawn into
confidence, and dwelling on his brother's past doings, and on future
schemes for Maplewood. For the rest, he restored to the house the
atmosphere of boy, which had somewhat departed with Harry. Mary, who had
begun to be tamed down, ran more wild than ever, to the utter despair
of Miss Winter; and Tom, now that his connection with the Whichcote
foundation was over, and he was no more cowed by the sight of his
tyrants, came out in a new light. He put on his boy-nature, rioted
like the rest, acquired colour in his cheeks, divested his jacket of
perpetual dust, had his hair cut, brushed up a crest on his head, and
ran about no longer a little abject, but a merry lad.

Ethel said it was a change from Horrid-locks to Harfagre; Margaret said
little, but, like her father, she blessed Norman in her heart for having
given back the boy to his father's confidence, and saved him so far from
the terrible course of deceit and corruption. She could not much take
to heart the mad exploits of the so-called boys, even though she spent
three hours in heart-beatings on Christmas Eve, when Hector, Mary, Tom,
Blanche, and the dog Toby, were lost the whole day. However, they did
come back at six o'clock, having been deluded by an old myth of George
Larkins, into starting for a common, three miles beyond Cocksmoor, in
search of mistletoe, with scarlet berries, and yellow holly, with
leaves like a porcupine! Failing these wonders, they had been contenting
themselves with scarlet holly, in the Drydale plantations, when a rough
voice exclaimed
whereupon Tom had
plunged into a thicket, and nearly
but
Hector boldly standing his ground, with Blanche in his hand, the woodman
discovered that here was the Miss Mary, of whom his little girls talked
so much, thereupon cut down the choicest boughs, and promised to leave
a full supply at Dr. May's. Margaret could have been angry at the taking
the young ladies on so mad a scheme, but then Mary was so happy, and as
to Hector, how scold him, when he had lifted Blanche over every
ditch, and had carried her home one mile on his back, and another,
queen's-cushion fashion, between him and Mary?

Flora, meanwhile, went her own way. The desire of compensating for
what had passed with Norman, led to great civilities from Dr. and Mrs.
Hoxton, which nobody was at liberty to receive except Flora. Pretty,
graceful, and pleasing, she was a valuable companion to a gentle little,
inane lady, with more time and money than she knew what to do with; and
Mrs. Hoxton, who was of a superior grade to the Stoneborough ladies in
general, was such a chaperon as Flora was glad to secure. Dr. May's old
loyal feelings could not help regarding her notice of his daughter as a
favour and kindness, and Margaret could find no tangible objections, nor
any precedent from her mother's conduct, even had any one had the power
to interfere with one so quiet, reasonable, and determined as Flora.

So the intimacy became closer and closer, and as the winter passed on,
Flora gradually became established as the dear friend and assistant,
without whom Mrs. Hoxton could give no party. Further, Flora took the
grand step of setting up a copper-plate and cards of
went out frequently on morning calls with Mrs. Hoxton and her bay
horses, and when Dr. May refused his share of invitations to dinner with
the neighbours in the county, Flora generally found that she could go
under the Hoxtons' guardianship.





PART II
Now have I then eke this condicion
     That above all the flouris in the mede;
     Then love I most these flouris white and rede,
     Soche that men callin daisies in our town.
     To them have I so great affection,
     As I said erst, when comin is the Maie,
     That in my bed there dawith me no daie
     That I am up and walking in the mede,
     To see this floure agenst the sunne sprede.-- CHAUCER
said Margaret, contemplating a butterfly of the
penwiper class, whose constitution her dexterous needle had been
rendering less rickety than Blanche had left it.

Margaret still lay on the sofa, and her complexion had assumed the dead
white of habitual ill-health. There was more languor of manner, and her
countenance, when at rest, and not under the eye of her father, had
a sadness of expression, as if any hopes that she might once have
entertained were fading away. The years of Alan Ernescliffe's absence
that had elapsed had rather taken from her powers than added to them.
Nevertheless, the habit of cheerfulness and sympathy had not deserted
her, and it was with a somewhat amused glance that she turned towards
Ethel, as she heard her answer by a sigh.

These years had dealt more kindly with Etheldred's outward appearance.
They had rounded her angles, softened her features, and tinged
her cheeks with a touch of red, that took off from the surrounding
sallowness. She held herself better, had learned to keep her hair in
order, and the more womanly dress, plain though it was, improved her
figure more than could have been hoped in the days of her lank,
gawky girlhood. No one could call her pretty, but her countenance
had something more than ever pleasing in the animated and thoughtful
expression on those marked features. She was sitting near the window,
with a book, a dictionary, and pencil, as she replied to Margaret, with
the sigh that made her sister smile
said Ethel
then, nettled by Margaret's laugh
said Margaret
cried Ethel vehemently
said Ethel, disregarding
said Margaret
said Ethel
said
Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret tenderly
said Margaret
said Margaret
said Margaret, pausing, almost confounded
said Margaret, sighing
said Ethel
said Margaret
Margaret mused sadly
Ethel sat meditating, and at last said
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret gently
Ethel sighed
Ethel laughed, and said
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Norman, who had come up to the window unobserved,
and had been listening to their few last sentences
said Norman
said Margaret
asked Norman
said Ethel
said Norman
said Margaret
said Norman, as if he rather enjoyed her losing something
through her going to Mrs. Hoxton
said Ethel
said Norman
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Norman sharply
said Ethel
said Margaret gently
interposed Norman
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
added Margaret
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
whispered Margaret
said Norman suddenly
said Ethel
said Norman; and,
with a sudden flush of colour, he returned to the garden
said Margaret
said Ethel fondly
said Margaret sadly
said Ethel
exclaimed Margaret, her face lighting up
with pleasure as the two youngest children entered, and, indeed, little
Gertrude's golden hair, round open face, fresh red and white complexion,
and innocent looks, had so much likeness to the flower, as to promote
the use of the pet name, though protests were often made in favour
of her proper appellation. Her temper was daisy-like too, serene and
loving, and able to bear a great deal of spoiling, and resolve as they
might, who was not her slave?

Miss Winter no longer ruled the schoolroom. Her sway had been brought
to a happy conclusion by a proposal from a widowed sister to keep house
with her; and Ethel had reason to rejoice that Margaret had kept her
submissive under authority, which, if not always judicious, was both
kind and conscientious.

Upon the change, Ethel had thought that the lessons could easily
be managed by herself and Flora; while Flora was very anxious for a
finishing governess, who might impart singing to herself, graces to
Ethel, and accomplishments to Mary and Blanche.

Dr. May, however, took them both by surprise. He met with a family of
orphans, the eldest of whom had been qualifying herself for a governess,
and needed nothing but age and finish; and in ten minutes after the
project had been conceived, he had begun to put it in execution, in
spite of Flora's prudent demurs.

Miss Bracy was a gentle, pleasing young person, pretty to look at,
with her soft olive complexion, and languid pensive eyes, obliging and
intelligent; and the change from the dry, authoritative Miss Winter was
so delightful, that unedifying contrasts were continually being drawn.
Blanche struck up a great friendship for her at once; Mary, always
docile, ceased to be piteous at her lessons, and Ethel moralised on the
satisfaction of having sympathy needed instead of repelled, and did her
utmost to make Miss Bracy feel at home -- and like a friend -- in her new
position.

For herself, Ethel had drawn up a beautiful time-table, with all her
pursuits and duties most carefully balanced, after the pattern of that
which Margaret Rivers had made by her advice, on the departure of Mrs.
Larpent, who had been called away by the ill-health of her son. Meta had
adhered to hers in an exemplary manner, but she was her own mistress in
a manner that could hardly be the lot of one of a large family.

Margaret had become subject to languor and palpitations, and the head
of the household had fallen entirely upon Flora, who, on the other hand,
was a person of multifarious occupations, and always had a great number
of letters to write, or songs to copy and practise, which, together with
her frequent visits to Mrs. Hoxton, made her glad to devolve, as much as
she could, upon her younger sister; and
was said often enough to be a tax upon her
time.

Moreover, Ethel perceived that Aubrey's lessons were in an
unsatisfactory state. Margaret could not always attend to them, and
suffered from them when she did; and he was bandied about between his
sisters and Miss Bracy in a manner that made him neither attentive nor
obedient.

On her own principle, that to embrace a task heartily renders it no
longer irksome, she called on herself to sacrifice her studies and
her regularity, as far as was needful, to make her available for home
requirements. She made herself responsible for Aubrey, and, after a
few battles with his desultory habits, made him a very promising
pupil, inspiring so much of herself into him, that he was, if anything,
overfull of her classical tastes. In fact, he had such an appetite for
books, and dealt so much in precocious wisdom, that his father was heard
to say
Gertrude was also Ethel's pupil, but learning was not at all in her
line; and the sight of
or of the venerated
were the most serious clouds, that made the Daisy
pucker up her face, and infuse a whine into her voice.

However, to-day, as usual, she was half dragged, half coaxed, through
her day's portion of the discipline of life, and then sent up for her
sleep, while Aubrey's two hours were spent in more agreeable work, such
as Margaret could not but enjoy hearing -- so spirited was Ethel's mode of
teaching -- so eager was her scholar.

His play afterwards consisted in fighting o'er again the siege of Troy
on the floor, with wooden bricks, shells, and the survivors of a Noah's
ark, while Ethel read to Margaret until Gertrude's descent from the
nursery, when the only means of preventing a dire confusion in Aubrey's
camp was for her elder sisters to become her playfellows, and so spare
Aubrey's temper. Ethel good-humouredly gave her own time, till their
little tyrant trotted out to make Norman carry her round the garden on
his back.

So sped the morning till Flora came home, full of the intended bazaar,
and Ethel would fain have taken refuge in puzzling out her Spanish, had
she not remembered her recent promise to be gracious.

The matter had been much as she had described it. Flora had a way of
hinting at anything she thought creditable, and thus the Stoneborough
public had become aware of the exertions of the May family on behalf of
Cocksmoor.

The plan of a fancy fair was started. Mrs. Hoxton became more interested
than was her wont, and Flora was enchanted at the opening it gave for
promoting the welfare of the forlorn district. She held a position which
made her hope to direct the whole. As she had once declared, with truth,
it only had depended on themselves, whether she and her sisters should
sink to the level of the Andersons and their set, or belong to the
county society; and her tact had resulted in her being decidedly -- as the
little dressmaker's apprentice amused Ethel by saying
a name that had stuck by her ever since.

Margaret looked on passively, inclined to admire Flora in everything,
yet now and then puzzled; and her father, in his simple-hearted way,
felt only gratitude and exultation in the kindness that his daughter
met with. As to the bazaar, if it had been started in his own family, he
might have weighed the objections, but, as it was not his daughter's own
concern, he did not trouble himself about it, only regarding it as one
of the many vagaries of the ladies of Stoneborough.

So the scheme had been further developed, till now Flora came in with
much to tell. The number of stalls had been finally fixed. Mrs. Hoxton
undertook one, with Flora as an aide-de-camp, and some nieces to assist;
Lady Leonora was to chaperon Miss Rivers; and a third, to Flora's
regret, had been allotted to Miss Cleveland, a good-natured, merry,
elderly heiress, who would, Flora feared, bring on them the whole
And then she began to reckon up the present
resources -- drawings, bags, and pincushions
said Ethel, heaving up a mass of knitting
said Flora
said Flora, turning to Margaret
said Ethel, who, like all the world, felt
the influence of Flora's tact
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
Ethel saw Margaret looking distressed, and, recalling her resolution
she said
said Flora, smiling in an elder-sisterly
manner
Knowledge is second, not the first;
     A higher Hand must make her mild,
     If all be not in vain, and guide
     Her footsteps, moving side by side,
     With wisdom; like the younger child,
     For she is earthly of the mind,
     But knowledge heavenly of the soul.-- In Memoriam.


Etheldred had not answered her sister, but she did not feel at all
secure that she should have anything to be thankful for, even if the
school were built.

The invasion of Cocksmoor was not only interference with her own field
of action, but it was dangerous to the improvement of her scholars.
Since the departure of Mr. Wilmot, matters at Stoneborough National
School had not improved, though the Misses Anderson talked a great deal
about progress, science, and lectures.

The Ladies' Committee were constantly at war with the mistresses, and
that one was a veteran who endured them, or whom they could endure
beyond her first half-year. No mistress had stayed a year within the
memory of any girl now at school. Perpetual change prevented any real
education, and, as each lady held different opinions and proscribed all
books not agreeing thereto, everything "dogmatical" was excluded; and,
as Ethel said, the children learned nothing but facts about lions and
steam-engines, while their doctrine varied with that of the visitor for
the week. If the ten generals could only have given up to Miltiades,
but, alas! there was no Miltiades. Mr. Ramsden's health was failing,
and his neglect told upon the parish in the dreadful evils reigning
unchecked, and engulfing many a child whom more influential teaching
might have saved. Mental arithmetic, and the rivers of Africa, had
little power to strengthen the soul against temptation.

The scanty attendance at the National School attested the indifference
with which it was regarded, and the borderers voluntarily patronised
Cherry Elwood, and thus had, perhaps, first aroused the emulation that
led Mrs. Ledwich on a visit of inspection, to what she chose to consider
as an offshoot of the National School.

The next day she called upon the Misses May. It was well that Ethel was
not at home. Margaret received the lady's horrors at the sight of the
mere crowded cottage kitchen, the stupid untrained mistress, without an
idea of method, and that impertinent woman, her mother! Miss Flora and
Miss Ethel must have had a great deal to undergo, and she would lose no
time in convening the Ladies' Committee, and appointing a successor to
as soon as a fit room could be erected for her use. If
Margaret had not known that Mrs. Ledwich sometimes threatened more than
she could accomplish, she would have been in despair. She tried to say
a good word for Cherry, but was talked down, and had reason to believe
that Mrs. Elwood had mortally offended Mrs. Ledwich.

The sisters had heard the other side of the story at Cocksmoor. Mrs.
Elwood would not let them enter the school till she had heard how that
there Mrs. Ledwich had come in, and treated them all as if it was her
own place -- how she had found fault with Cherry before all the children,
and as good as said she was not fit to keep a school. She had even laid
hands on one of the books, and said that she should take it home, and
see whether it were a fit one for them to use; whereupon Mrs. Elwood had
burst out in defence -- it was Miss Ethel May's book, and should not be
taken away -- it was Miss Ethel as she looked to; and when it seemed that
Mrs. Ledwich had said something disparaging of Miss Ethel, either as
to youth, judgment, or doctrine, Mrs. Elwood had fired up into a
declaration that
with more of a personal
nature, which Flora could not help enjoying, even while she regretted
it.

Cherry was only too meek, as her mother declared. She had said not a
word, except in quiet reply, and being equally terrified by the attack
and defence, had probably seemed more dull than was her wont. Her real
feelings did not appear till the next Sunday, when, in her peaceful
conference with Margaret, far from the sound of storms, she expressed
that she well knew that she was a poor scholar, and that she hoped the
young ladies would not let her stand in the children's light, when a
better teacher could be found for them
cried Ethel, as she heard of this
As to the dullness, against which Ethel used to rail, the attacks upon
it had made her erect it into a positive merit; she was always comparing
the truth, honesty, and respectful demeanour of Cherry's scholars with
the notorious faults of the National School girls, as if these defects
had been implanted either by Mrs. Ledwich, or by geography. It must be
confessed that the violence of partisanship did not make her a pleasant
companion.

However, the interest of the bazaar began somewhat to divert the current
of the ladies' thoughts, and Ethel found herself walking day after
day to Cocksmoor, unmolested by further reports of Mrs. Ledwich's
proceedings. Richard was absent, preparing for ordination, but Norman
had just returned home for the Long Vacation, and, rather than lose the
chance of a conversation with her, had joined her and Mary in a walk to
Cocksmoor.

His talk was chiefly of Settlesham, old Mr. Wilmot's parish, where
he had been making a visit to his former tutor, and talking over the
removal to Eton of Tom, who had well responded to the care taken of him,
and with his good principles confirmed, and his character strengthened,
might be, with less danger, exposed to trial.

It had been a visit such as to leave a deep impression on Norman's mind.
Sixty years ago, old Mr. Wilmot had been what he now was himself -- an
enthusiastic and distinguished Balliol man, and he had kept up a
warm, clear-sighted interest in Oxford throughout his long life. His
anecdotes, his recollections, and comments on present opinions had been
listened to with great eagerness, and Norman had felt it an infinite
honour to give the venerable old man his arm, as to be shown by him his
curious collection of books. His parish, carefully watched for so many
years, had been a study not lost upon Norman, who detailed particulars
of the doings there, which made Ethel sigh to think of the contrast
with Stoneborough. In such conversation they came to the entrance of
the hamlet, and Mary, with a scream of joy, declared that she really
believed that he was going to help them! He did not turn away
said Ethel, in a low voice, from the bottom of her heart.

She used him mercifully, and made the lessons shorter than usual, but
when they reached the open air again, he drew a long breath; and when
Mary eagerly tried for a compliment to their scholars, asked if they
could not be taught the use of eyelids
said Ethel
asked Mary
said Norman
replied Ethel
cried Mary
said Ethel, seeing him disconcerted
said Mary, disappointed
he answered
said Ethel
said Norman
replied Ethel, very low
and she paused
from the fullness of thought
said Ethel
So Norman persevered in the homely discipline that he had chosen for
himself, which brought out his deficiency in practical work in a manner
which lowered him in his own eyes, to a degree almost satisfactory
to himself. He was not, indeed, without humility, but his nature was
self-contemplative and self-conscious enough to perceive his superiority
of talent, and it had been the struggle of his life to abase this
perception, so that it was actually a relief not to be obliged to fight
with his own complacency in his powers. He had learned not to think too
highly of himself -- he had yet to learn to
His aid was
Ethel's chief pleasure through this somewhat trying summer, it might be
her last peaceful one at Cocksmoor.

That bazaar! How wild it had driven the whole town, and even her own
home!

Margaret herself, between good nature and feminine love of pretty
things, had become ardent in the cause. In her unvaried life, it was a
great amusement to have so many bright elegant things exhibited to her,
and Ethel was often mortified to find her excited about some new device,
or drawn off from
to complete some trifle.

Mary and Blanche were far worse. From the time that consent had been
given to the fancy-work being carried on in the schoolroom, all interest
in study was over. Thenceforth, lessons were a necessary form, gone
through without heart or diligence. These were reserved for paste-board
boxes, beplastered with rice and sealing-wax, for alum baskets, dressed
dolls, and every conceivable trumpery; and the governess was as eager as
the scholars.

If Ethel remonstrated, she hurt Miss Bracy's feelings, and this was a
very serious matter to both parties.

The governess was one of those morbidly sensitive people, who cannot
be stopped when once they have begun arguing that they are injured.
Two women together, each with the last-word instinct, have no power
to cease; and, when the words are spent in explaining -- not in
scolding -- conscience is not called in to silence them, and nothing but
dinner or a thunder-storm can check them. All Ethel's good sense was of
no avail; she could not stop Miss Bracy, and, though she might resolve
within herself that real kindness would be to make one reasonable reply,
and then quit the subject, yet, on each individual occasion, such a
measure would have seemed mere impatience and cruelty. She found that if
Miss Winter had been too dry, Miss Bracy went to the other extreme,
and demanded a manifestation of sympathy, and return to her passionate
attachment that perplexed Ethel's undemonstrative nature. Poor good Miss
Bracy, she little imagined how often she added to the worries of her
dear Miss Ethel, all for want of self-command.

Finally, as the lessons were less and less attended to, and the needs
of the stall became more urgent, Dr. May and Margaret concurred in a
decision, that it was better to yield to the mania, and give up the
studies till they could be pursued with a willing mind.

Ethel submitted, and only laughed with Norman at the display of
treasures, which the girls went over daily, like the
always starting from
Come when Dr. May
would into the drawing-room, there was always a line of penwipers laid
out on the floor, bags pendent to all the table-drawers, antimacassars
laid out everywhere.

Ethel hoped that the holidays would create a diversion, but Mary was too
old to be made into a boy, and Blanche drew Hector over to the feminine
party, setting him to gum, gild, and paste all the contrivances which,
in their hands, were mere feeble gimcracks, but which now became fairly
sound, or, at least, saleable.

The boys also constructed a beautiful little ship from a print of the
Alcestis, so successfully, that the doctor promised to buy it; and Ethel
grudged the very sight of it to the bazaar.

Tom, who, in person, was growing like a little shadow or model of
Norman, had, unlike him, a very dexterous pair of hands, and made
himself extremely useful in all such works. On the other hand, the
Cleveland stall seemed chiefly to rely for brilliance on the wit of
Harvey Anderson, who was prospering at his college, and the pride of his
family. A great talker, and extremely gallant, he was considered a far
greater acquisition to a Stoneborough drawing-room than was the silent,
bashful Norman May, and rather looked down on his brother Edward, who,
having gone steadily through the school, was in the attorney's office,
and went on quietly and well, colouring up gratefully whenever one of
the May family said a kind word to him
Any silk, any thread,
       Any toys for your head,
     Of the newest and finest wear-a?
       Come to the pedlar,
       Money's a medlar.
     That doth utter all men's ware-a.
                                Winter's Tale
thought Ethel, as she awoke.

Flora was sleeping at the Grange, to be ready for action in the morning,
and Ethel was to go early with Mary and Blanche, who were frantic to
have a share in the selling. Norman and the boys were to walk at their
own time, and the children to be brought later by Miss Bracy. The doctor
would be bound by no rules.

It was a pattern day, bright, clear, warm, and not oppressive, perfect
for an out-of-doors fete; and Ethel had made up her mind to fulfil her
promise to Margaret of enjoying herself. In the brilliant sunshine, and
between two such happy sisters, it would have been surly, indeed, not to
enter into the spirit of the day; and Ethel laughed gaily with them,
and at their schemes and hopes; Blanche's heart being especially set on
knowing the fate of a watch-guard of her own construction.

Hearing that the ladies were in the gardens, they repaired thither at
once. The broad, smooth bowling-green lay before them; a marquee, almost
converted into a bower, bounding it on either side, while in the midst
arose, gorgeous and delicious, a pyramid of flowers -- contributions from
all the hot-houses in the neighbourhood -- to be sold for the benefit of
the bazaar. Their freshness and fragrance gave a brightness to the whole
scene, while shrinking from such light, as only the beauteous works of
nature could bear, was the array accomplished by female fingers.

Under the wreathed canopies were the stalls, piled up with bright
colours, most artistically arranged. Ethel, with her over-minute
knowledge of every article, could hardly believe that yonder glowing
Eastern pattern of scarlet, black, and blue, was, in fact, a judicious
mosaic of penwipers that she remembered, as shreds begged from the
tailor, that the delicate lace-work consisted of Miss Bracy's perpetual
antimacassars, and that the potichomanie could look so dignified and
Etruscan
cried Meta Rivers, springing to meet them
said Ethel
anxiously asked Blanche
said Meta, looking round
said Ethel
cried Mary, in ecstasy, at what she was
forced to express by the vague substantive, for her imagination had
never stretched to the marvels she beheld
In fact, Lady Leonora's marquee was filled with costly knick-knacks,
which, as Meta justly said, had not half the grace and appropriate air
that reigned where Flora had arranged, and where Margaret had worked,
with the peculiar freshness and finish that distinguished everything to
which she set her hand.

Miss Cleveland's counter was not ill set-out, but it wanted the air of
ease and simplicity, which was even more noticeable than the perfect
taste of Flora's wares. If there had been nothing facetious, the effect
would have been better, but there was nothing to regret, and the whole
was very bright and gay.

Blanche could hardly look; so anxious was she for Flora to tell her the
locality of her treasure
said Meta at last
cried each sister amazed; while Mary added
It was the first time of seeing her in the white muslin, and broad chip
hat -- which all the younger saleswomen of the bazaar had agreed to wear.
It was a most becoming dress, and she did, indeed, look strikingly
elegant and well dressed. It occurred to Ethel, for the first time, that
Flora was decidedly the reigning beauty of the bazaar -- no one but Meta
Rivers could be compared to her, and that little lady was on so small
a scale of perfect finish, that she seemed fit to act the fairy, where
Flora was the enchanted princess.

Flora greeted her sisters eagerly, while Meta introduced her brother -- a
great contrast to herself, though not without a certain comeliness,
tall and large, with ruddy complexion, deep lustreless black eyes, and
a heavy straight bush of black moustache, veiling rather thick lips.
Blanche reiterated inquiries for her watch-guard
said Flora
Blanche was in despair
said Flora, who, however hurried, never failed in
kindness
So Blanche ran from place to place in restless dismay, that caused Mr.
George Rivers to ask what was the matter
cried Blanche; whereupon he fell into a fit of
laughter, which disconcerted her, because she could not understand him,
and made Ethel take an aversion to him on the spot.

However, he was very good-natured; he took Blanche's reluctant hand, and
conducted her all along the stall, even proceeding to lift her up where
she could not command a view of the whole, thus exciting her extreme
indignation. She shook herself out when he set her down, surveyed her
crumpled muslin, and believed he took her for a little girl! She ought
to have been flattered when the quest was successful, and he insisted
on knowing which was the guard, and declared that he should buy it. She
begged him to do no such thing, and he desired to know why -- insisting
that he would give five shillings -- fifteen -- twenty-five for that one!
till she did not know whether he was in earnest, and she doing an injury
to the bazaar.

Meantime, the hour had struck, and Flora had placed Mrs. Hoxton in a
sheltered spot, where she could take as much or as little trouble as she
pleased. Lady Leonora and Miss Langdale came from the house, and, with
the two ladies'-maids in the background, took up their station with
Miss Rivers. Miss Cleveland called her party to order, and sounds of
carriages were heard approaching.

Mary and Blanche disbursed the first money spent in the
Mary, on a blotting-book for Harry, to be placed among the presents, to
which she added on every birthday, while Blanche bought a sixpenny gift
for every one, with more attention to the quantity than the quality.
Then came a revival of her anxieties for the guards, and while Mary was
simply desirous of the fun of being a shopwoman, and was made happy by
Meta Rivers asking her help, Blanche was in despair, till she had sidled
up to their neighbourhood, and her piteous looks had caused good-natured
Mrs. Hoxton to invite her to assist, when she placed herself close to
the precious object.

A great fluttering of heart went to that manoeuvre, but still felicity
could not be complete. That great troublesome Mr. George Rivers had
actually threatened to buy nothing but that one watch-chain, and
Blanche's eye followed him everywhere with fear, lest he should come
that way. And there were many other gentlemen -- what could they want but
watch-guards, and of them -- what -- save this paragon?

Poor Blanche; what did she not undergo whenever any one cast his eye
over her range of goods? and this was not seldom, for there was an
attraction in the pretty little eager girl, glowing and smiling. One
old gentleman actually stopped, handled the guards themselves, and asked
their price
said Blanche, colouring and faltering, as she held up
one in preference
said he, to the lady on his arm
exclaimed Blanche, in extremity
asked the gentleman, amused
she answered
the lady said kindly; and the other was taken
the lady could not help saying, as
she walked away
The great event of the day was over now with Blanche, and she greatly
enjoyed wandering about with Hector and Tom. There was a post-office
at Miss Cleveland's stall, where, on paying sixpence, a letter could be
obtained to the address of the inquirer. Blanche had been very anxious
to try, but Flora had pronounced it nonsense; however, Hector declared
that Flora was not his master, tapped at the sliding panel, and charmed
Blanche by what she thought a most witty parody of his name as Achilles
Lionsrock, Esquire. When the answer came from within
they thought it almost uncanny; and Hector's shilling
was requited by something so like a real ship letter, that they had
some idea that the real post had somehow transported itself thither. The
interior was decidedly oracular, consisting of this one line
Hector said he wished he had any laudable undertaking, and Blanche tried
to persuade Tom to try his fortune, but he pronounced that he did
not care to hear Harvey Anderson's trash -- he knew his writing, though
disguised, and had detected his shining boots below the counter. There
Mr. George Rivers came up, and began to tease Blanche about the guards,
asking her to take his fifteen shillings -- or five-and-twenty, and who
had got that one, which alone he wanted; till the poor child, after
standing perplexed for some moments, looked up with spirit, and said
and, running away, took refuge in the
back of Mrs. Hoxton's marquee, where she found Ethel packing up for Miss
Hoxton's purchasers, and confiding to her that Mr. George Rivers was a
horrid man, she ventured no more from her protection. She did, indeed,
emerge, when told that papa was coming with Aubrey and Daisy and Miss
Bracy, and she had the pleasure of selling to them some of her wares.
Dr. May bargaining with her to her infinite satisfaction; and little
Gertrude's blue eyes opened to their full width, not understanding what
could have befallen her sisters
asked the doctor
and Ethel's face was raised, looking very
merry
said Dr. May,
laughing
answered she, in
the same tone.

For Ethel was noted as the worst packer in the house; but, having
offered to wrap up a pincushion, sold by a hurried Miss Hoxton, she
became involved in the office for the rest of the day -- the same which
Bellairs and her companion performed at the Langdale counter. Flora was
too ready and dexterous to need any such aid, but the Misses Hoxton
were glad to be spared the trouble; and Blanche, whose fingers were far
neater than Ethel's, made the task much easier, and was kept constant
to it by her dread of the dark moustache, which was often visible near
their tent, searching, she thought, for her.

Their humble employment was no sinecure; for this was the favourite
stall with the purchasers of better style, since the articles were, in
general, tasteful, and fairly worth the moderate price set on them. At
Miss Cleveland's counter there was much noisy laughter -- many jocular
cheats -- tricks for gaining money, and refusals to give change; and it
seemed to be very popular with the Stoneborough people, and to carry
on a brisk trade. The only languor was in Lady Leonora's quarter -- the
articles were too costly, and hung on hand; nor were the ladies
sufficiently well known, nor active enough, to gain custom, excepting
Meta, who drove a gay traffic at her end of the stall, which somewhat
redeemed the general languor.

Her eyes were, all the time, watching for her father, and, suddenly
perceiving him, she left her trade in charge of the delighted and
important Mary, and hastened to walk round with him, and show him the
humours of the fair.

Mary, in her absence, had the supreme happiness of obtaining Norman as
a customer. He wanted a picture for his rooms at Oxford, and
water-coloured drawings were, as Tom had observed, suitable staple
commodities for Miss Rivers. Mary tried to make him choose a
brightly-coloured pheasant, with a pencil background; and, then, a fine
foaming sea-piece, by some unknown Lady Adelaide, that much dazzled her
imagination; but nothing would serve him but a sketch of an old cedar
tree, with Stoneborough Minster in the distance, and the Welsh hills
beyond, which Mary thought a remarkable piece of bad taste, since -- could
he not see all that any day of his life? and was it worth while to give
fourteen shillings and sixpence for it? But he said it was all for the
good of Cocksmoor, and Mary was only too glad to add to her hoard of
coin; so she only marvelled at his extravagance, and offered to take
care of it for him; but, to this, he would not consent. He made her pack
it up for him, and had just put the whitey-brown parcel under his arm,
when Mr. Rivers and his daughter came up, before he was aware. Mary
proudly advertised Meta that she had sold something for her
said Mary
said Mr. Rivers, in his soft, sleepy, gentle tone
Norman, pressed near them by the crowd, had been unable to escape, and
stood blushing, hesitating, and doubting whether he ought to restore the
prize, which he had watched so long, and obtained so eagerly
said Mr. Rivers politely
said Norman, still rather hesitating
While he was seeking them, Meta contrived to whisper
Norman signed comprehension, and Meta said
Mr. Rivers looked pleased, but was certain that Norman could not prefer
the sketches to this gay scene. However, it took very little persuasion
to induce him to do what he wished, and he took Norman's arm, crossed
the lawn, and arrived in his own study, where it was a great treat
to him to catch any one who would admire his accumulation of prints,
drawings, coins, etc.; and his young friend was both very well amused
and pleased to be setting Miss Rivers's mind at ease on her father's
account. It was not till half-past four that Dr. May knocked at the
door, and stood surprised at finding his son there. Mr. Rivers spoke
warmly of the young Oxonian's kindness in leaving the fair for an old
man, and praised Norman's taste in art. Norman rose to take leave, but
still thought it incumbent on him to offer to give up the picture,
if Mr. Rivers set an especial value on it. But Mr. Rivers went to the
length of being very glad that it was in his possession, and added to
it a very pretty drawing of the same size, by a noted master, which had
been in the water-colour exhibition, and, while Norman walked away, well
pleased, Mr. Rivers began to extol him to his father, as a very superior
and sensible young man, of great promise, and began to wish George had
the same turn.

Norman, on returning to the fancy fair, found the world in all the
ardour of raffles. Lady Leonora's contributions were the chief prizes,
which attracted every one, and, of course, the result was delightfully
incongruous. Poor Ethel, who had been persuaded to venture a shilling
to please Blanche, who had spent all her own, obtained the two jars in
potichomanie, and was regarding them with a face worth painting. Harvey
Anderson had a doll, George Rivers a wooden monkey, that jumped over a
stick; and, if Hector Ernescliffe was enchanted at winning a beautiful
mother-of-pearl inlaid workbox, which he had vainly wished to buy for
Margaret, Flora only gained a match-box of her own, well known always to
miss fire, but which had been decided to be good enough for the bazaar.

By fair means or foul, the commodities were cleared off, and, while the
sunbeams faded from the trodden grass, the crowds disappeared, and
the vague compliment
was exchanged between the
lingering sellers and their friends.

Flora was again to sleep at the Grange, and return the next day, for
a committee to be held over the gains, which were not yet fully
ascertained. So Dr. May gathered his flock together, and packed them,
boys and all, into the two conveyances, and Ethel bade Meta good-night,
almost wondering to hear her merry voice say
echoed Mary
added Meta
Ethel smiled, but hurried her departure, for she saw Blanche again
tormented by Mr. George Rivers, to know what had become of the guard,
telling her that, if she would not say, he should be furiously jealous.

Blanche hid her face on Ethel's arm, when they were in the carriage, and
almost cried with indignant
That long-desired day had
not been one of unmixed happiness to her, poor child, and Ethel doubted
whether it had been so to any one, except, indeed, to Mary, whose
desires never soared so high but that they were easily fulfilled, and
whose placid content was not easily wounded. All she was wishing now
was, that Harry were at home to receive his paper-case.

The return to Margaret was real pleasure. The narration of all that had
passed was an event to her. She was so charmed with her presents, of
every degree; things, unpleasant at the time, could, by drollery in the
relating, be made mirthful fun ever after; Dr. May and the boys were so
comical in their observations -- Mary's wonder and simplicity came in so
amazingly -- and there was such merriment at Ethel's two precious jars,
that she could hardly wish they had not come to her. On one head they
were all agreed, in dislike of George Rivers, whom Mary pronounced to be
a detestable man, and, when gently called to order by Margaret, defended
it, by saying that Miss Bracy said it was better to detest than to
hate, while Blanche coloured up to the ears, and hid herself behind
the arm-chair; and Dr. May qualified the censure by saying, he believed
there was no great harm in the youth, but that he was shallow-brained
and extravagant, and, having been born in the days when Mr. Rivers had
been working himself up in the world, had not had so good an education
as his little half-sister
said her father, laying his hand
on Ethel's arm, as she was wearily and pensively putting together the
scattered purchases before going up to bed
said Dr. May
said
Ethel, smiling
said Dr. May,
looking anxiously at her
said Ethel, rousing herself, though speaking huskily
And Ethel, though she had tried to be cheerful, leaned against his arm,
and shed a few tears
said Dr. May soothingly, yet half
laughing
Back then, complainer...
     Go, to the world return, nor fear to cast
     Thy bread upon the waters, sure at last
        In joy to find it after many days.-- Christian Year.


The next day Ethel had hoped for a return to reason, but behold, the
world was cross! The reaction of the long excitement was felt, Gertrude
fretted, and was unwell; Aubrey was pettish at his lessons; and Mary and
Blanche were weary, yawning and inattentive; every straw was a burden,
and Miss Bracy had feelings.

Ethel had been holding an interminable conversation with her in the
schoolroom, interrupted at last by a summons to speak to a Cocksmoor
woman at the back door, and she was returning from the kitchen, when the
doctor called her into his study
said Ethel, somewhat
exasperated
exclaimed Dr. May
said Ethel
asked Dr.
May incredulously
said Ethel, softened, yet wounded by his thinking it
so impossible
said the doctor, looking vexed
said Ethel meekly
said Ethel
said the doctor, in a low, musing tone
and he sighed
said
Ethel, whose temper, already not in the smoothest state, found it hard
that, after having long borne patiently with these constant arguments,
she should find Miss Bracy made the chief object of compassion.

Dr. May's chivalrous feeling caused him to take the part of the weak,
and he answered
he continued, as the
picture wrought on him
He put Ethel aside, and knocked at the schoolroom door, while Ethel
stood, mortified
cried Mary, running up to her, then slackening her pace, and
whispering
said Ethel
said Mary
said Ethel pettishly
whispered Mary, as the two sisters
made a precipitate retreat into the drawing-room.

Meanwhile, Dr. May had been in the schoolroom. Miss Bracy had ceased her
tears before he came -- they had been her retort on Ethel, and she had not
intended the world to know of them. Half disconcerted, half angry, she
heard the doctor approach. She was a gentle, tearful woman, one of
those who are often called meek, under an erroneous idea that meekness
consists in making herself exceedingly miserable under every kind
of grievance; and she now had a sort of melancholy satisfaction in
believing that the young ladies had fabricated an exaggerated complaint
of her temper, and that she was going to become injured innocence. To
think herself accused of a great wrong, excused her from perceiving
herself guilty of a lesser one
said Dr. May, entering with his frank, sweet look
Such amends as these confused Miss Bracy, who found it pleasanter to be
lamentable with Ethel, than to receive a full apology for her imagined
offence from the master of the house. Feeling both small and absurd,
she murmured something of
and
and hoped he
was going, so that she might sit down to pity herself, for those girls
having made her appear so ridiculous.

No such thing! Dr. May put a chair for her, and sat down himself,
saying, with a smile
Miss Bracy exclaimed
said Dr. May
Miss Bracy smiled, for she could remember instances when, after
suffering much at the time, she had found the affront imaginary.

He was glad of that smile, and proceeded
she exclaimed, shocked
he said, smiling
and this
she said with a sort of complacency
said Dr. May, much as if prescribing
for her
She felt as if she could at that moment
added Dr. May, somewhat hesitating
and then, growing clearer,
he proceeded
Miss Bracy began to be sensible that she had somewhat abused
Ethel's patience; and the unfortunate speech about the source of her
sensitiveness did not appear to her so direfully cruel as at first.
She hoped every one would forget all about it, and resolved not to take
umbrage so easily another time, or else be silent about it, but she was
not a person of much resolution.

The doctor found that Meta Rivers and her brother had brought Flora
home, and were in the drawing-room, where Margaret was hearing another
edition of the history of the fair, and a by-play was going on, of
teasing Blanche about the chain.

George Rivers was trying to persuade her to make one for him; and her
refusal came out at last, in an almost passionate key, in the midst of
the other conversation
Margaret gravely sent Blanche and the other children away to take their
walk, and the brother and sister soon after took leave, when Flora
called Ethel to hasten to the Ladies' Committee, that they might arrange
the disposal of the one hundred and fifty pounds, the amount of their
gains
said Ethel
said Flora,
looking radiant with good humour, and conscious of power
There was sense in this; there always was sense in what Flora said, but
it jarred on Ethel; and it seemed almost unsympathising in her to be so
gay, when the rest were wearied or perturbed. Ethel would have been very
glad of a short space to recollect herself, and recover her good temper;
but it was late, and Flora hurried her to put on her bonnet, and come to
the committee
she said, as they
set out
said Ethel
said Ethel, whose
ruffled condition made her forget her resolution not to argue with
Flora
said Flora
said
Ethel
said
Ethel, sensible all the time of her own ill-humour, and of her sister's
patience and amiability, yet propelled to speak the unpleasant truths
that in her better moods were held back.

Still Flora was good-tempered, though Ethel would almost have preferred
her being provoked
she said
said Ethel
was Flora's reply.

At this moment they came up with one of the Miss Andersons, and Flora
began to exchange civilities, and talk over yesterday's events with
great animation. Her notice always gave pleasure, brightened as it was
by the peculiarly engaging address which she had inherited from her
father, and which, therefore, was perfectly easy and natural. Fanny
Anderson was flattered and gratified, rather by the manner than the
words, and, on excellent terms, they entered the committee-room, namely,
the schoolmistress's parlour.

There were nine ladies on the committee -- nine muses, as the doctor
called them, because they produced anything but harmony. Mrs. Ledwich
was in the chair; Miss Rich was secretary, and had her pen and ink, and
account-book ready. Flora came in, smiling and greeting; Ethel, grave,
earnest, and annoyed, behind her, trying to be perfectly civil, but not
at all enjoying the congratulations on the successful bazaar. The ladies
all talked and discussed their yesterday's adventures, gathering in
little knots, as they traced the fate of favourite achievements of their
skill, while Ethel, lugubrious and impatient, beside Flora, the only
one not engaged, and, therefore, conscious of the hubbub of clacking
tongues.

At last Mrs. Ledwich glanced at the mistress's watch, in its pasteboard
tower, in Gothic architecture, and insisted on proceeding to business.
So they all sat down round a circular table, with a very fine red, blue,
and black oilcloth, whose pattern was inseparably connected, in Ethel's
mind, with absurdity, tedium, and annoyance.

The business was opened by the announcement of what they all knew
before, that the proceeds of the fancy fair amounted to one hundred and
forty-nine pounds fifteen shillings and tenpence.

Then came a pause, and Mrs. Ledwich said that next they had to consider
what was the best means of disposing of the sum gained in this most
gratifying manner. Every one except Flora, Ethel, and quiet Mrs.
Ward, began to talk at once. There was a great deal about Elizabethan
architecture, crossed by much more, in which normal, industrial,
and common things, most often met Ethel's ear, with some stories,
second-hand, from Harvey Anderson, of marvellous mistakes; and, on the
opposite side of the table, there was Mrs. Ledwich, impressively saying
something to the silent Mrs. Ward, marking her periods with emphatic
beats with her pencil, and each seemed to close with
whom Ethel knew to be Cherry's intended supplanter. She looked
piteously at Flora, who only smiled and made a sign with her hand to her
to be patient. Ethel fretted inwardly at that serene sense of power; but
she could not but admire how well Flora knew how to bide her time, when,
having waited till Mrs. Ledwich had nearly wound up her discourse on
Mrs. Elwood's impudence, and Mrs. Perkinson's niece, she leaned towards
Miss Boulder, who sat between, and whispered to her
Miss Boulder, having acted as conductor, the president exclaimed
Thereupon Mrs. Ledwich, who
moved, and Miss Anderson seconded, that the land
requisite for the school must be obtained, and the nine ladies held up
their hands, and resolved it.

Miss Rich duly recorded the great resolution, and Miss Boulder suggested
that, perhaps, they might write to the National Society, or Government,
or something; whereat Miss Rich began to flourish one of the very long
goose quills which stood in the inkstand before her, chiefly as insignia
of office, for she always wrote with a small, stiff metal pen.

Flora here threw in a query, whether the National Society, or
Government, or something, would give them a grant, unless they had the
land to build upon?

The ladies all started off hereupon, and all sorts of instances of
hardness of heart were mentioned, the most relevant of which was, that
the Church Building Society would not give a grant to Mr. Holloway's
proprietary chapel at Whitford, when Mrs. Ledwich was suddenly struck
with the notion that dear Mr. Holloway might be prevailed on to come
to Stoneborough to preach a sermon in the Minster, for the benefit of
Cocksmoor, when they would all hold plates at the door. Flora gave Ethel
a tranquillising pat, and, as Mrs. Ledwich turned to her, asking whether
she thought Dr. May, or Dr. Hoxton, would prevail on him to come, she
said, with her winning look
they all agreed, but to whom did the land belong?-- and
what a chorus arose! Miss Anderson thought it belonged to Mr. Nicolson,
because the wagons of slate had James Nicolson on them, and, if so, they
had no chance, for he was an old miser -- and six stories illustrative
thereof ensued. Miss Rich was quite sure some Body held it, and
Bodies were slow of movement. Mrs. Ledwich remembered some question of
enclosing, and thought all waste lands were under the Crown; she knew
that the Stoneborough people once had a right to pasture their cattle,
because Mr. Southron's cow had tumbled down a loam-pit when her mother
was a girl. No, that was on Far-view down, out the other way! Miss
Harrison was positive that Sir Henry Walkinghame had some right there,
and would not Dr. May apply to him? Mrs. Grey thought it ought to
be part of the Drydale estate, and Miss Boulder was certain that Mr.
Bramshaw knew all about it.

Flora's gentle voice carried conviction that she knew what she was
saying, when, at last, they left a moment for her to speak --(Ethel would
have done so long ago
Everybody, being partially right, was delighted, and had known it all
before; Miss Boulder agreed with Miss Anderson that Miss May had stated
it as lucidly as Mr. Bramshaw could. The next question was, to whom to
apply? and, after as much as was expedient had been said in favour of
each, it was decided that, as Sir Henry Walkinghame was abroad, no one
knew exactly where, it would be best to go to the fountain-head, and
write at once to the principal of the college. But who was to write?
Flora proposed Mr. Ramsden as the fittest person, but this was
negatived. Every one declared that he would never take the trouble, and
Miss Rich began to agitate her pens. By this time, however, Mrs. Ward,
who was opposite to the Gothic clock-tower, began to look uneasy, and
suggested, in a nervous manner, that it was half-past five, and she was
afraid Mr. Ward would be kept waiting for his dinner. Mrs. Grey began
to have like fears, that Mr. Grey would be come in from his ride after
banking hours. The other ladies began to think of tea, and the meeting
decided on adjourning till that day next week, when the committee would
sit upon Miss Rich's letter
began Miss Rich, adhering to her as they parted
with the rest at the end of the street
said Flora, laughing
said Flora good-naturedly
said Flora, as the sisters turned homewards
Ethel did not answer; she had self-control enough left not to retort
upon Flora's estimate of herself, but the irritation was strong; she
felt as if her cherished views for Cocksmoor were insulted, as well as
set aside, by the place being made the occasion of so much folly and
vain prattle, the sanctity of her vision of self-devotion destroyed
by such interference, and Flora's promises did not reassure her. She
doubted Flora's power, and had still more repugnance to the means
by which her sister tried to govern; they did not seem to her
straightforward, and she could not endure Flora's complacency in their
success. Had it not been for her real love for the place and people, as
well as the principle which prompted that love, she could have found
it in her heart to throw up all concern with it, rather than become a
fellow-worker with such a conclave.

Such were Ethel's feelings as the pair walked down the street; the one
sister bright and smiling with the good humour that had endured many
shocks all that day, all good nature and triumph, looking forward to
success, great benefit to Cocksmoor, and plenty of management, with
credit and praise to herself; the other, downcast and irritable, with
annoyance at the interference with her schemes, at the prospects of her
school, and at herself for being out of temper, prone to murmur or to
reply tartly, and not able to recover from her mood, but only, as she
neared the house, lapsing into her other trouble, and preparing to
resist any misjudged, though kind attempt of her father, to make her
unsay her rebuke to Miss Bracy. Pride and temper! Ah! Etheldred! where
were they now?

Dr. May was at his study door as his daughters entered the hall, and
Ethel expected the order which she meant to question; but, instead of
this, after a brief inquiry after the doings of the nine muses, which
Flora answered, so as to make him laugh, he stopped Ethel, as she
was going upstairs, by saying
The envelope was addressed to the Reverend Richard May, D. D., Market
Stoneborough, and the letter began
So far Ethel saw,
and exclaimed, with amusement, then, with a long-drawn
and
an interjection
she became absorbed, the large
tears -- yes, Ethel's reluctant tears gathering slowly and dropping.

The letter was from a clergyman far away in the north of England, who
said he could not, though a stranger, resist the desire to send to
Dr. May an account of a poor girl, who seemed to have received great
benefits from him, or from some of his family, especially as she had
shown great eagerness on his proposing to write.

He said it was nearly a year since there had come into his parish a
troop of railwaymen and their families. For the most part, they were
completely wild and rude, unused to any pastoral care; but, even on
the first Sunday, he had noticed a keen-looking, freckled, ragged,
unmistakably Irish girl, creeping into church with a Prayer-book in her
hand, and had afterwards found her hanging about the door of the school
Ethel's cry of delight was at that
sentence -- she knew that look too well, and had yearned after it so
often
Etheldred finished the letter through blinding tears, while rising sobs
almost choked her. She ran away to her own room, bolted the door, and
threw herself on her knees, beside her bed -- now confusedly giving thanks
for such results -- now weeping bitterly over her own unworthiness. Oh!
what was she in the sight of Heaven, compared with what this poor girl
had deemed her -- with what this clergyman thought her? She, the teacher,
taught, trained, and guarded, from her infancy, by her wise mother, and
by such a father! She, to have given way all day to pride, jealousy,
anger, selfish love of her own will; when this poor girl had embraced,
and held fast, the blessed hope, from the very crumbs they had brought
her! Nothing could have so humbled the distrustful spirit that had been
working in Ethel, which had been scotched into silence -- not killed -- when
she endured the bazaar, and now had been indemnifying itself by repining
at every stumbling-block. Her own scholar's blessing was the rebuke that
went most home to her heart, for having doubted whether good could be
worked in any way, save her own.

She was interrupted by Mary trying to open the door, and, admitting
her, heard her wonder at the traces of her tears, and ask what there
was about Una. Ethel gave her the letter, and Mary's tears showered very
fast -- they always came readily
and Ethel sat down and cried
again.

Mary pondered
she said
she came near, and whispered
Ethel kissed her. It was almost the first time Mary had spoken of her
mother; and she answered
Mary was silent, and, next time she spoke, it was to hope that Ethel
would tell the Cocksmoor children about Una.

Ethel was obliged to dress, and go downstairs to tea. Her father seemed
to have been watching for her, with his study door open, for he came
to meet her, took her hand, and said, in a low voice
said he,
struck by the sadness of her voice
Ethel's lips trembled
Dr. May gave Ethel his sheet not folded. His written words were now so
few as to be cherished amongst his children
As late, engaged by fancy's dream,
     I lay beside a rapid stream,
     I saw my first come gliding by,
     Its airy form soon caught my eye;
     Its texture frail, and colour various,
     Like human hopes, and life precarious.
     Sudden, my second caught my ear,
     And filled my soul with constant fear;
     I quickly rose, and home I ran,
     My whole was hissing in the pan.-- Riddle.


Flora revised the letter to the principal, and the Ladies' Committee
approved, after having proposed seven amendments, all of which Flora
caused to topple over by their own weakness.

After interval sufficient to render the nine ladies very anxious, the
principal wrote from Scotland, where he was spending the Long Vacation,
and informed them that their request should be laid before the next
college meeting.

After the committee had sat upon this letter, the two sisters walked
home in much greater harmony than after the former meeting. Etheldred
had recovered her candour, and was willing to own that it was not art,
but good sense, that gave her sister so much ascendancy. She began to be
hopeful, and to declare that Flora might yet do something even with the
ladies. Flora was gratified by the approval that no one in the house
could help valuing
said Flora
said
Ethel
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel hesitatingly
said Flora
They were at home by this time, and entering the hall, perceived that
the whole party were in the lawn. The consolation of the children
for the departure of Hector and Tom, was a bowl of soap-suds and some
tobacco pipes, and they had collected the house to admire and assist,
even Margaret's couch being drawn close to the window.

Bubbles is one of the most fascinating of sports. There is the soft
foamy mass, like driven snow, or like whipped cream. Blanche bends down
to blow
holding the bowl of the pipe in the water; at her
gurgling blasts there slowly heaves upwards the pile of larger, clearer
bubbles, each reflecting the whole scene, and sparkling with rainbow
tints, until Aubrey ruthlessly dashes all into fragments with his hand,
and Mary pronounces it stiff enough, and presents a pipe to little
Daisy, who, drawing the liquid into her mouth, throws it away with a
grimace, and declares that she does not like bubbles! But Aubrey stands
with swelled cheeks, gravely puffing at the sealing-waxed extremity.
Out pours a confused assemblage of froth, but the glassy globe slowly
expands the little branching veins, flowing down on either side, bearing
an enlarging miniature of the sky, the clouds, the tulip-tree. Aubrey
pauses to exclaim! but where is it? Try again! A proud bubble, as Mary
calls it, a peacock, in blended pink and green, is this transparent
sphere, reflecting and embellishing house, wall, and shrubs! It is
too beautiful! It is gone! Mary undertakes to give a lesson, and
blows deliberately without the slightest result. Again! She waves
her disengaged hand in silent exultation as the airy balls detach
themselves, and float off on the summer breeze, with a tardy, graceful,
uncertain motion. Daisy rushes after them, catches at them, and looks
at her empty fingers with a puzzled
as plainly expressed by
Toby, who snaps at them, and shakes his head with offended dignity at
the shock of his meeting teeth, while the kitten frisks after them,
striking at them with her paw, amazed at meeting vacancy.

Even the grave Norman is drawn in. He agrees with Mary that bubbles
used to fly over the wall, and that one once went into Mrs. Richardson's
garret window, when her housemaid tried to catch it with a pair of
tongs, and then ran downstairs screaming that there was a ghost in her
room; but that was in Harry's time, the heroic age of the May nursery.

He accepts a pipe, and his greater height raises it into a favourable
current of air -- the glistening balloon sails off. It flies, it soars;
no, it is coming down! The children shout at it, as if to drive it up,
but it wilfully descends -- they rush beneath, they try to waft it on high
with their breath -- there is a collision between Mary and Blanche -- Aubrey
perceives a taste of soapy water -- the bubble is no more -- it is vanished
in his open mouth!

Papa himself has taken a pipe, and the little ones are mounted on
chairs, to be on a level with their tall elders. A painted globe is
swimming along, hesitating at first, but the dancing motion is tending
upwards, the rainbow tints glisten in the sunlight -- all rush to assist
it; if breath of the lips can uphold it, it should rise, indeed!
Up! above the wall! over Mrs. Richardson's elm, over the topmost
branch -- hurrah! out of sight! Margaret adds her voice to the
acclamations. Beat that if you can, Mary! That doubtful wind keeps yours
suspended in a graceful minuet; its pace is accelerated -- but earthwards!
it has committed self-destruction by running foul of a rose-bush. A
general blank
said Norman, as the elders laughed at each other's
baffled faces
she answered
said Norman, smiling
said Dr. May
said Norman
Every one
joined in the outcry
said the
doctor
said Norman, far more thoughtfully than his father
continued Dr. May
whispered Ethel to her brother
said Norman briefly
said Dr. May
said Blanche, who had been listening.

Dr. May laughed, and patted her
persisted Blanche
said he, laughing
said Norman, in a low voice
asked Ethel
said Ethel
said
Dr. May, sighing
Ethel would have asked further of her father's dear old friend, but
there were sounds, denoting an arrival, and Margaret beckoned to them
as Miss Rivers and her brother were ushered into the drawing-room; and
Blanche instantly fled away, with her basin, to hide herself in the
schoolroom.

Meta skipped out, and soon was established on the grass, an attraction
to all the live creatures, as it seemed; for the kitten came, and was
caressed till her own graceful Nipen was ready to fight with the uncouth
Toby for the possession of a resting-place on the skirt of her habit,
while Daisy nestled up to her, as claiming a privilege, and Aubrey kept
guard over the dogs.

Meta inquired after a huge doll -- Dr. Hoxton's gift to Daisy, at the
bazaar
was the answer
returned Aubrey
said Ethel
asked Meta
said Aubrey, while Meta looked discomfited
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Flora
George Rivers burst out laughing -- his first sign of life; and Meta
looked as if she had heard of so many murders
she said
said Margaret
cried Meta, as if she had found another point of
union
cried her brother, laying hold of the child
said the little round mouth. The
fat arm was drawn back, with all a baby's dignity, and the rosy face was
hidden in Dr. May's breast, at the sound of George Rivers's broad laugh
and
Dr. May put his arm round her, turned aside from him, and began talking
to Meta about Mr. Rivers.

Flora and Norman made conversation for the brother; and he presently
asked Norman to go out shooting with him, but looked so amazed on
hearing that Norman was no sportsman that Flora tried to save the family
credit by mentioning Hector's love of a gun, which caused their guest to
make a general tender of sporting privileges
added he, with a
drawl
Meta told Ethel, a little apart, that he was so tired of going out
alone, that he had brought her here, in search of a companion
said she
exclaimed Ethel
said Meta, laughing
said Ethel bluntly
said Meta, as if that were very different
said Meta, with a look of congratulation
When Ethel had watched the tall, ponderous brother help the bright fairy
sister to fly airily into her saddle, and her sparkling glance, and wave
of the hand, as she cantered off, contrasting with his slow bend,
and immobility of feature, she could not help saying that Meta's life
certainly was not too charming, with her fanciful, valetudinarian
father, and that stupid, idealess brother
interposed Norman
said Norman
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Margaret
pleaded Mary
said Margaret
said Dr. May
chimed in Norman
said Flora
said Dr. May
said Flora
said Mary
cried Norman indignantly
said Margaret
cried Ethel, laughing
said Norman
said Ethel
said Norman
said Norman
said Ethel
she added, as she had now walked with him a little apart
as the colour rushed into his cheeks
said Ethel, standing thoughtful
said Norman
Ethel prevailed by following her brother to his room, and perching
herself on the window-sill, while he read his performance from many
slips of paper. The visions of those boyish days had not been forgotten,
the Vesuvius scenery was much as Ethel had once described it, but with
far more force and beauty; there was Decius's impassioned address to the
beauteous land he was about to leave, and the remembrances of his Roman
hearth, his farm, his children, whom he quitted for the pale shadows of
an uncertain Elysium. There was a great hiatus in the middle, and Norman
had many more authorities to consult, but the summing-up was nearly
complete, and Ethel thought the last lines grand, as they spoke of the
noble consul's name living for evermore, added to the examples that
nerve ardent souls to devote life, and all that is precious, to the call
of duty. Fame is not their object. She may crown their pale brows, but
for the good of others, not their own, a beacon light to the world. Self
is no object of theirs, and it is the casting self behind that wins -- not
always the visible earthly strife, but the combat between good and evil.
They are the true victors, and, whether chronicled or forgotten, true
glory rests on their heads, the sole true glory that man can attain,
namely, the reflected beams that crown them as shadowy types of Him whom
Decius knew not -- the Prince who gave Himself for His people, and thus
rendered death, for Truth's sake, the highest boon to mortal man
said Ethel
said Norman, rather ashamed of the enthusiasm which, almost
approaching to the so-called "funny state" of his younger days, had
trembled in his voice, and kindled his eye
said Ethel
Ethel was always very happy over Norman's secrets, and went about
smiling over Decius, and comparing her brother with such a one as poor
Meta was afflicted with; wasting some superfluous pity and contempt on
the weary weight that was inflicted on the Grange
said Margaret, one afternoon
cried Ethel, laughing
said Margaret slyly
said Margaret
said Margaret
Margaret and Etheldred kept their eyes open, and sometimes imagined,
sometimes laughed at themselves for their speculations, and so October
began; and Ethel laughed, as she questioned whether the Grange would
feel the Hussar's return to his quarters, as much as home would the
departure of their scholar for Balliol
So, Lady Flora, take my lay,
       And if you find a meaning there,
     Oh! whisper to your glass, and say,
       What wonder, if he thinks me fair.-- Tennyson.


Flora and Norman were dining with one of their county acquaintance, and
Dr. May had undertaken to admit them on their return. The fire shone red
and bright, as it sank calmly away, and the timepiece and clock on the
stairs had begun their nightly duet of ticking, the crickets chirped in
the kitchen, and the doctor sat alone. His book lay with unturned pages,
as he sat musing, with eyes fixed on the fire, living over again his own
life, the easy bright days of his youth, when, without much pains on his
own part, the tendencies of his generous affectionate disposition,
and the influences of a warm friendship, and an early attachment, had
guarded him from evil -- then the period when he had been perfectly happy,
and the sobering power of his position had been gradually working
on him; but though always religious and highly principled, the very
goodness of his natural character preventing him from perceiving the
need of self-control, until the shock that changed the whole tenor
of his life, and left him, for the first time, sensible of his own
responsibility, but with inveterate habits of heedlessness and hastiness
that love alone gave him force to combat. He was now a far gentler man.
His younger children had never seen, his elder had long since forgotten,
his occasional bursts of temper, but he suffered keenly from their
effects, especially as regarded some of his children. Though Richard's
timidity had been overcome, and Tom's more serious failures had been
remedied, he was not without anxiety, and had a strange unsatisfactory
feeling as regarded Flora. He could not feel that he fathomed her! She
reminded him of his old Scottish father-in-law, Professor Mackenzie,
whom he had never understood, nor, if the truth were known, liked. Her
dealings with the Ladies' Committee were so like her grandfather's canny
ways in a public meeting, that he laughed over them -- but they were
not congenial to him. Flora was a most valuable person; all that she
undertook prospered, and he depended entirely on her for household
affairs, and for the care of Margaret; but, highly as he esteemed her,
he was a little afraid of her cool prudence; she never seemed to be
in any need of him, nor to place any confidence in him, and seemed
altogether so much older and wiser than he could feel himself -- pretty
girl as she was -- and very pretty were her fine blue eyes and clear skin,
set off by her dark brown hair. There arose the vision of eyes as blue,
skin as clear, but of light blonde locks, and shorter, rounder, more
dove-like form, open, simple, loving face, and serene expression, that
had gone straight to his heart, when he first saw Maggie Mackenzie
making tea.

He heard the wheels, and went out to unbolt the door. Those were a pair
for a father to be proud of -- Norman, of fine stature and noble looks,
with his high brow, clear thoughtful eye, and grave intellectual eagle
face, lighting into animation with his rare, sweet smile; and Flora, so
tall and graceful, and in her white dress, picturesquely half concealed
by her mantle, with flowers in her hair, and a deepened colour in her
cheek, was a fair vision, as she came in from the darkness
Norman related the circumstances, while his sister remained silently
leaning against the mantel-piece, looking into the fire, until he took
up his candle, and bade them good-night. Dr. May was about to do the
same, when she held out her hand
she said
said Dr. May, beginning to smile
said Flora, a little hurt, as her father
discovered by her tone
said Dr. May, laughing
said Flora, looking down and hesitating
faltered Flora
and he paused, completely confounded, while his daughter was
no less surprised at the manner in which her news was received. Each
waited for the other to speak, and Flora turned away, resting her head
against the mantel-piece
said he, laying his hand on her shoulder
said Flora, in a choked
voice, her face still averted
he answered
He had grown more and more vehement, and Flora put her
handkerchief to her eyes, for tears of actual disappointment were
flowing
he said, touched, but turning it off by a smile
He kissed her affectionately, and went upstairs with her, stopping at
her door to give her another embrace, and to say
Flora was disappointed. She had been too highly pleased at her conquest
to make any clear estimation of the prize, individually considered. Her
vanity magnified her achievement, and she had come home in a flutter of
pleasure, at having had such a position in society offered to her, and
expecting that her whole family would share her triumph. Gratified
by George Rivers's admiration, she regarded him with favour and
complacency; and her habit of considering herself as the most sensible
person in her sphere made her so regard his appreciation of her, that
she was blinded to his inferiority. It must be allowed that he was less
dull with her than with most others.

And, in the midst of her glory, when she expected her father to be
delighted and grateful -- to be received as a silly girl, ready to accept
any proposal, her lover spoken of with scorn, and the advantages of the
match utterly passed over, was almost beyond endurance. A physician,
with eleven children dependent on his practice, to despise an offer
from the heir of such a fortune! But that was his customary romance!
She forgave him, when it occurred to her that she was too important, and
valuable, to be easily spared; and a tenderness thrilled through her,
as she looked at the sleeping Margaret's pale face, and thought of
surrendering her and little Daisy to Ethel's keeping. And what would
become of the housekeeping? She decided, however, that feelings must not
sway her -- out of six sisters some must marry, for the good of the rest.
Blanche and Daisy should come and stay with her, to be formed by the
best society; and, as to poor dear Ethel, Mrs. Rivers would rule the
Ladies' Committee for her with a high hand, and, perhaps, provide
Cocksmoor with a school at her sole expense. What a useful, admirable
woman she would be! The doctor would be the person to come to his senses
in the morning, when he remembered Abbotstoke, Mr. Rivers, and Meta.

So Flora met her father, the next morning, with all her ordinary
composure, in which he could not rival her, after his sleepless, anxious
night. His looks of affectionate solicitude disconcerted what she had
intended to say, and she waited, with downcast eyes, for him to begin
he said at last
said Flora, still looking down
said Flora
said Dr. May
said Flora
said Flora, in a submissive tone, which
had the effect of making him lose patience
said
Flora, and her voice showed suppressed emotion
Flora never did come to any one for advice
said Flora steadily
he said, as if to himself
then continued
Ethel perceived that something was in agitation, but the fact did not
break upon her till she came to Margaret, after the schoolroom reading,
and heard Dr. May declaiming away in the vehement manner that always
relieved him
These were the words that met her ear; and she would have
gone away, but he called her
exclaimed Ethel
said her father
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel. She broke off
short, quite dismayed at the emotion she had excited. Dr. May stepped
towards her, almost as if he could have shaken her
he cried
Ethel tried to recollect what she had said that was so shocking, for the
idea of Flora's worldly motives was no novelty to her. They had appeared
in too many instances; and, though frightened at his anger, she stood
still, without unsaying her words.

Margaret began to explain away
said Dr. May, his passionate manner giving way to dejection
Poor Margaret's tears sprang forth, and, looking up imploringly, she
exclaimed
Any reproach to her had been entirely remote from his thoughts, and he
was at once on his knee beside her, soothing and caressing, begging
her pardon, and recalling whatever she could thus have interpreted.
Meanwhile, Ethel stood unnoticed and silent, making no outward
protestation, but with lips compressed, as in her heart of hearts she
passed the resolution -- that her father should never feel this pain on
her account. Leave him who might, she would never forsake him;
nothing but the will of Heaven should part them. It might be hasty and
venturesome. She knew not what it might cost her; but, where Ethel had
treasured her resolve to work for Cocksmoor, there she also laid up her
secret vow -- that no earthly object should be placed between her and her
father.

The ebullition of feeling seemed to have restored Dr. May's calmness,
and he rose, saying
Margaret asked
And, with
these words, he left the room.

Margaret and Ethel glanced at each other; and both felt the
impenetrability of Flora's nature, so smooth, that all thrusts glided
off
said Ethel
said Ethel, with an emphasis of incredulity
said Margaret
said Ethel.

Margaret flushed up
she said, always timid, and
slightly defective in moral courage. She looked so nervous and shaken by
the bare idea of a remonstrance with Flora, that Ethel could not press
her; and, though convinced that her representation would be useless, she
owned that her conscience would rest better after she had spoken
she said
So Ethel let it rest, and attended to the children's lessons, during
which Flora came into the drawing-room, and practised her music, as if
nothing had happened.

Before the morning was over, Ethel contrived to visit Norman in the
dining-room, where he was wont to study, and asked him whether he had
made any impression on Flora
said Ethel
said Norman, with much surprise and
anxiety, as if he feared that he had been doing wrong, in ignorance
said Norman
gravely
said Norman, considering; and, speaking very innocently
Ethel sat down, perfectly breathless with amazement and indignation.

Norman saw that he had shocked her very much
he said
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel ironically
replied Ethel, as she looked sorrowfully down
said Norman
said Ethel humbly
said Norman cheerfully
A good deal of talk to him would have been more correct, if Norman
had but been aware of it. He had been at the chief expense of the
conversation with George Rivers, and had taken the sounds of assent,
which he obtained, as evidences of his appreciation of all his views.
Norman had been struggling so long against his old habit of looking down
on Richard, and exalting intellect; and had seen, in his Oxford life, so
many ill-effects of the knowledge that puffeth up, that he had come
to have a certain respect for dullness, per se, of which George Rivers
easily reaped the benefit, when surrounded by the halo, which everything
at Abbotstoke Grange bore in the eyes of Norman.

He was heartily delighted at the proposed connection, and his genuine
satisfaction not only gratified Flora, and restored the equanimity that
had been slightly disturbed by her father, but it also reassured Ethel
and Margaret, who could not help trusting in his judgment, and began to
hope that George might be all he thought him.

Ethel, finding that there were two ways of viewing the gentleman,
doubted whether she ought to express her opinion. It was Flora's
disposition, and the advantages of the match, that weighed most upon
her, and, in spite of her surmise having been treated as so injurious,
she could not rid herself of the burden.

Dr. May was not so much consoled by Norman's opinion as Ethel expected.
The corners of his mouth curled up a little with diversion, and though
he tried to express himself glad, and confident in his son's judgment,
there was the same sort of involuntary lurking misgiving with which he
had accepted Sir Matthew Fleet's view of Margaret's case.

There was no danger that Dr. May would not be kind and courteous to the
young man himself. It was not his fault if he were a dunce, and Dr. May
perceived that his love for Flora was real, though clumsily expressed.
He explained that he could not sanction the engagement till he should
be better informed of the young gentleman's antecedents; this was, as
George expressed it, a great nuisance, but his father agreed that it
was quite right, in some doubt, perhaps, as to how Dr. May might be
satisfied
Ye cumbrous fashions, crowd not on my head.
     Mine be the chip of purest white,
     Swan-like; and, as her feathers light,
     When on the still wave spread;
     And let it wear the graceful dress
     Of unadorned simpleness.
                            Catherine Fanshaw's 'Parody on Grey'.


Nothing transpired to the discredit of Lieutenant Rivers. He had spent a
great deal of money, but chiefly for want of something else to do,
and, though he was not a subject for high praise, there was no vice
in him -- no more than in an old donkey -- as Dr. May declared, in his
concluding paroxysm of despair, on finding that, though there was little
to reconcile him to the engagement, there was no reasonable ground for
thwarting his daughter's wishes. He argued the matter once more with
her, and, finding her purpose fixed, he notified his consent, and the
rest of the family were admitted to a knowledge of the secret which they
had never suspected.

Etheldred could not help being gratified with the indignation it
excited. With one voice, Mary and Blanche declared that they would
never give up the title of
and would not make him
any presents; certainly not watch-chains! Miss Bracy, rather alarmed,
lectured them just enough to make them worse; and Margaret, overhearing
Blanche instructing Aubrey in her own impertinences, was obliged to call
her to her sofa, and assure her that she was unkind to Flora, and that
she must consider Mr. George Rivers as her brother
exclaimed Mary indignantly
exclaimed Blanche
said
Margaret.

Blanche was so annihilated, that the sound of a carriage, and of the
door bell, was a great satisfaction to her.

Meta Rivers came flying into the room, her beautiful eyes dancing,
and her cheeks glowing with pleasure, as, a little timidly, she kissed
Margaret; while Ethel, in a confused way, received Mr. Rivers, in
pain for her own cold, abrupt manner, in contrast with his gentle,
congratulating politeness.

Meta asked, blushing, and with a hesitating voice, for their dear Flora;
Mary offered to call her, but Meta begged to go herself, and thus was
spared the awkwardness that ensued. Ethel was almost vexed with herself,
as ungrateful, when she saw Mr. Rivers so mildly kind, and so delighted,
with the bland courtesy that seemed fully conscious of the favour that
Flora had conferred on his son, and thankful to the Mays for accepting
him.

Margaret answered with more expression of gratification than would have
been sincere in Ethel; but it was a relief when Flora and Meta came in
together, as pretty a contrast as could be seen; the little dark-eyed
fairy, all radiant with joy, clinging to the slender waist of Flora,
whose quiet grace and maidenly dignity were never more conspicuous than
as, with a soft red mantling in her fair cheek, her eyes cast down, but
with a simple, unaffected warmth of confidence and gratitude, she came
forward to receive Mr. Rivers's caressing affectionate greeting.

Stiffness was over when she came in, and Dr. May, who presently made his
appearance, soon was much more at his ease than could have been hoped,
after his previous declarations that he should never be able to be
moderately civil about it to Mr. Rivers. People of ready sympathy, such
as Dr. May and Margaret, have a great deal of difficulty with their
sincerity spared them, by being carried along with the feelings of
others. Ethel could not feel the same, and was bent on avoiding any
expression of opinion; she hoped that Meta's ecstasies would all be
bestowed upon her future sister-in-law; but Meta was eager for an
interview with Ethel herself, and, as usual, gained her point
she cried
Ethel had not thought of this as a convenience of the connection, and
she let Meta kiss her, and owned that it was very nice
said Meta
said Ethel
said Meta, smiling
Ethel said, rather repenting the next moment
said Meta
said Ethel
Meta laughed, for Ethel's sham was not too successful; she continued
said Ethel
Meta clapped her hands, and said that she should tell her father, and
Ethel parted with her, liking her, at least, better than ever. There
was a comical scene between her and the doctor, trying to define what
relations they should become to each other, which Ethel thought did a
good deal to mollify her father.

The history of George's life did more; he took to pitying him, and pity
was, indeed, akin to love in the good doctor's mind. In fact, George
was a man who could be liked, when once regarded as a belonging -- a
necessity, not a choice; for it was quite true that there was no harm in
him, and a great deal of good nature. His constant kindness, and evident
liking for Margaret, stood him in good stead; he made her a sort of
confidante, bestowing on her his immeasurable appreciation of Flora's
perfections, and telling her how well he was getting on with
a name under which she failed to recognise her father.

As to Tom, he wrote his congratulations to Ethel, that she might make
a wedding present of her Etruscan vases, the Cupids on which must have
been put there by anticipation. Richard heard none of the doubts,
and gave kind, warm congratulations, promising to return home for
the wedding; and Mary and Blanche no sooner heard a whisper about
bride's-maids than all their opposition faded away, in a manner that
quite scandalised Ethel, while it set Margaret on reminiscences of
her having been a six-year-old bride's-maid to Flora's godmother, Mrs.
Arnott.

As to the gossip in the town, Ethel quite dreaded the sight of every one
without Flora to protect her, and certainly, Flora's unaffected, quiet
manner was perfection, and kept off all too forward congratulations,
while it gratified those whom she was willing to encourage.

There was no reason for waiting, and Mr. Rivers was as impatient as his
son, so an understanding arose that the wedding, should take place near
the end of the Christmas holidays.

Flora showed herself sensible and considerate. Always open-handed, her
father was inclined to do everything liberally, and laid no restrictions
on her preparations, but she had too much discretion to be profuse, and
had a real regard for the welfare of the rest. She laughed with Ethel at
the anticipations of the Stoneborough ladies that she must be going
to London, and, at the requests, as a great favour, that they might be
allowed the sight of her trousseau. Her wedding-dress, white silk,
with a white cashmere mantle, was, indeed, ordered from Meta's London
dressmaker; but, for the rest, she contented herself with an expedition
to Whitford, accompanied by Miss Bracy and her two enchanted pupils,
and there laid in a stock of purchases, unpretending and in good
taste, aiming only at what could be well done, and not attempting the
decorative wardrobe of a great lady. Ethel was highly amused when
the Misses Anderson came for their inspection, to see their concealed
disappointment at finding no under garments trimmed with Brussels lace,
nor pocket-handkerchiefs all open-work, except a centre of the size of
a crown-piece, and the only thing remarkable was Margaret's beautiful
marking in embroidery. There was some compensation in the costly wedding
presents -- Flora had reaped a whole harvest from friends of her own,
grateful patients of her father, and the whole Rivers and Langdale
connection; but, in spite of the brilliant uselessness of most of these,
the young ladies considered themselves ill-used, thought Dr. May never
would have been shabby, and were of opinion that when Miss Ward had
married her father's surgical pupil, her outfit had been a far more
edifying spectacle.

The same moderation influenced Flora's other arrangements. Dr. May was
resigned to whatever might be thought most proper, stipulating only
that he should not have to make a speech; but Flora felt that, in their
house, a grand breakfast would be an unsuccessful and melancholy affair.
If the bride had been any one else, she could have enjoyed making all
go off well, but, under present circumstances, it would be great pain to
her father and Margaret, a misery to Ethel, and something she dared not
think of to the guests. She had no difficulty in having it dispensed
with. George was glad to avoid
Mr. Rivers feared the
fatigue, and, with his daughter, admired Flora for her amiability, and,
as to the home party, no words could express their gratitude to her for
letting them off. Mary and Blanche did, indeed, look rather blank, but
Blanche was consoled, by settling with Hector the splendours in store
for Alan and Margaret, and Mary cared the less, as there would be no
Harry to enjoy the fun.

The bride-maiden's glory was theirs by right, though Ethel was an
unsatisfactory chief for such as desired splendour. She protested
against anything incongruous with January, or that could not be useful
afterwards, and Meta took her part, laughing at the cruel stroke they
were preparing for Bellairs. Ethel begged for dark silks and straw
bonnets, and Flora said that she had expected to hear of brown stuff
and gray duffle, but owned that they had better omit the ordinary muslin
garb in the heart of winter. The baby bride's-maid was, at last, the
chief consideration. Margaret suggested how pretty she and Blanche would
look in sky-blue merino, trimmed with swan's-down. Meta was charmed with
the idea, and though Ethel stuck out her shoulder-blades and poked
out her head, and said she should look like the ugly duckling, she was
clamorously reminded that the ugly duckling ended by being a swan,
and promised that she should be allowed a bonnet of a reasonable size,
trimmed with white, for Mr. Rivers's good taste could endure, as little
as Dr. May's sense of propriety, the sight of a daughter without shade
to her face, Ethel, finally, gave in, on being put in mind that her papa
had a penchant for swan's-down, and on Margaret's promising to wear a
dress of the same as theirs.

Ethel was pleased and satisfied by Flora's dislike of parade, and
attention to the feelings of all. Passing over the one great fact,
the two sisters were more of one mind than usual, probably because all
latent jealousy of Ethel had ceased in Flora's mind. Hitherto, she had
preferred the being the only practically useful person in the family,
and had encouraged the idea of Ethel's gaucherie but now she desired to
render her sister able to take her place, and did all in her power to
put her in good heart.

For Etheldred was terrified at the prospect of becoming responsible
housekeeper. Margaret could only serve as an occasional reference. Her
morning powers became too uncertain to be depended on for any regular,
necessary duty, and it would have oppressed her so much to order the
dinners, which she never saw, that, though she offered to resume the
office, Flora would not hear of Ethel's consenting. If it were her
proper business, Ethel supposed she could do it, but another hour of her
leisure was gone, and what would become of them all, with her, a proverb
for heedlessness, and ignorance of ordinary details. She did not know
that these were more proverbial than actual, and, having a bad name, she
believed in it herself. However, Flora made it her business to persuade
her that her powers were as good for household matters, as for books, or
Cocksmoor; instructed her in her own methodical plans, and made her
keep house for a fortnight, with so much success that she began to be
hopeful.

In the attendance on Margaret, the other great charge, old nurse was
the security; and Ethel, who had felt her self much less unhandy
than before, was, to succeed to the abode, in her room -- Blanche
being promoted from the nursery to the old attic
said Flora
consolingly
Miss Flora May made her last appearance at the Ladies' Committee to hear
the reply from the principal of the college. It was a civil letter,
but declined taking any steps in the matter without more certain
intelligence of the wishes of the incumbent of the parish or of the
holders of the land in question.

The ladies abused all colleges -- as prejudiced old Bodies, and feared
that it would be impossible to ask Mrs. Perkinson's niece to take the
school while there was neither room nor lodging. So Miss Rich recorded
the correspondence, and the vote of censure, by which it was to be hoped
the Ladies' Committee of Market Stoneborough inflicted a severe blow on
the principal and fellows of M ---- College
said Flora
said Ethel,
smiling
said Ethel, laughing
said Flora
cried Ethel, terrified
Flora did wish it. She did love Stoneborough, and was sincerely
interested for Cocksmoor. She thought she worked earnestly for them,
and that her situation would be turned to their profit; but there was
something for which she worked more earnestly. Had Flora never heard of
the two masters whom we cannot serve at the same time?

Richard came home for
so as to include the wedding.
He looked very fresh and youthful; but his manner, though still gentle
and retiring, had lost all that shrinking diffidence, and had, now, a
very suitable grave composure. Everybody was delighted to have him;
and Ethel, more than any one, except Margaret. What floods of Cocksmoor
histories were poured upon him; and what comparing of notes about his
present school-children! He could not enter into the refinements of her
dread of the Ladies' Committee, and thought she might be thankful if
the school were built by any proper means; for, if Cherry Elwood
were retained, and the ladies prevented from doing harm, he did not
understand why Ethel should wish to reject all assistance that did not
come in a manner she admired. He never would comprehend -- so Ethel gave
it up -- feared she was again jealous and self-sufficient, and contented
herself with the joy that his presence produced at Cocksmoor, where the
children smiled, blushed, and tittered, with ecstasy, whenever he even
looked at one of them.

Richard was not allowed to have a Sunday of rest. His father apologised
for having made an engagement for him -- as Mr. Ramsden was unwell, and
the school clergy were all absent, so that he could do no otherwise than
assist in the service. Richard coloured, and said that he had brought no
sermon; and he was, in fact, deprived of much of his sister's company,
for composition was not easy to him, and the quantity of time he spent
on it, quite alarmed Norman and Ethel, who both felt rather nervous on
the Sunday morning, but agreed that preaching was not everything.

Ethel could not see well as far as the reading-desk, but she saw her
father glance up, take off his spectacles, wipe them, and put them away;
and she could not be displeased, though she looked reproof at Blanche's
breathless whisper
Those white folds did truly
suit well with the meek, serious expression of the young deacon's fair
face, and made him, as his sisters afterwards said, like one of the
solemnly peaceful angel-carvings of the earlier ages.

His voice was sweet and clear, and his reading full of quiet simplicity
and devotion, such as was not often heard by that congregation, who were
too much used either to carelessness or to pomposity. The sermon made
his brother and sister ashamed of their fears. It was an exposition of
the Gospel for the day, practical and earnest, going deep, and rising
high, with a clearness and soberness, yet with a beauty and elevation,
such as Norman and Ethel had certainly not expected -- or, rather,
they forgot all their own expectations and Richard himself, and only
recollected their own hearts and the great future before them.

Even Blanche and Aubrey told Margaret a great deal about it, and
declared that, if Richard preached every Sunday, they should like going
to church much better.

When Dr. May came in, some time after, he was looking much pleased
he said
Richard blushed distressfully, and quoted the saying, that it would be
the true comfort to hear that people went home, thinking of themselves
rather than of the sermon. This put an end to the subject; but the
doctor went over it again, most thoroughly, with his other children, who
were greatly delighted.

Flora's last home Sunday! She was pale and serious, evidently feeling
much, though seeking no tete-a-tetes; and chiefly engrossed with waiting
on Margaret, or fondling little Gertrude. No one saw the inside of her
mind -- probably, she did not herself. On the outside was a very suitable
pensiveness, and affection for all that she was leaving. The only one in
the family to whom she talked much was Norman, who continued to see many
perfections in George, and contrived, by the force of his belief, to
impress the same on the others, and to make them think his great
talent for silence such a proof of his discretion, that they were not
staggered, even by his shy blundering exclamation that his wedding would
be a great nuisance -- a phrase which, as Dr. May observed, was, to him,
what Est-il-possible was to his namesake of Denmark.

Nobody wished for any misgivings, so Richard was never told of any,
though there was a careful watch kept to see what were his first
impressions. None transpired, except something about good nature, but it
was shrewdly believed that Richard and George, being much alike in
shy unwillingness to speak, had been highly satisfied with the little
trouble they had caused to each other, and so had come to a tacit
esteem.

There was very little bustle of preparation. Excepting the packing,
everything went on much as usual, till the Thursday morning, and then
the children were up early, refreshing the Christmas hollies, and
working up their excitement, only to have it damped by the suppressed
agitation of their elders at the breakfast-table.

Dr. May did not seem to know what he was about; and Flora looked paler
and paler. She went away before the meal was over, and when Ethel went
to the bedroom, shortly after, she found that she had fairly broken
down, and was kneeling beside Margaret's sofa, resting her head on her
sister's bosom, and sobbing -- as Ethel had never seen her weep, except on
that dreadful night, after their mother's death.

In a person ordinarily of such self-command as Flora, weeping was a
terrible thing, and Margaret was much distressed and alarmed; but the
worst had passed before Ethel came up, and Flora was able to speak
said Margaret fondly
Ethel thought she caught those words, but no more. Mary's step was
heard, and Flora was on her feet, instantly, composing herself rapidly.
She shed no more tears, but her eyelids were very heavy, and her face
softened, in a manner that, though she was less pretty than usual, was
very becoming under her bridal veil. She recovered calmness and even
cheerfulness, while reversing the usual order of things, and dressing
her bride's-maids, who would never have turned out fit to be seen, but
for the exertions of herself, Margaret, and Miss Bracy. Ethel's long
Scotch bones and Mary's round, dumpy shapelessness were, in their
different ways, equally hard to overcome; and the one was swelled out
with a fabulous number of petticoats, and the other pinched in, till she
gasped and screamed for mercy, while Blanche and Gertrude danced about,
beautiful to behold, under their shady hats; and presently, with a light
tap at the door, Meta Rivers stepped in, looking so pretty, that all
felt that to try to attain to such an appearance was vain.

Timid in her affection, she hardly dared to do more than kiss them, and
whisper her pretty caressing words to each. There was no more time -- Dr.
Hoxton's carriage was come to take up the bride.

Ethel did as she was told, without much volition of her own; and she
quitted the carriage, and was drawn into her place by Norman, trusting
that Meta would not let her do wrong, and relieved that just in front
of her were the little ones, over whose heads she could see her father,
with Flora's veiled bending figure.

That pause while the procession was getting into order, the slow
movement up the centre aisle, the week-day atmosphere of the church,
brought back to her thoughts a very different time, and one of those
strange echoings on the mind repeated in her ears the words
There was a little pause -- George did not seem to be forthcoming, and
Meta turned round, rather uneasily, and whispered something about his
having been so nervous. However, there he was, looking exceedingly red,
and very sheepish, and disposed to fall back on his best man, Norman,
whose countenance was at the brightest -- and almost handsome.

Dr. Hoxton performed the ceremony
Richard. It had been
Flora's choice; and his loud sonorous voice was thought very impressive.
Blanche stood the nearest, and looked happy and important, with Flora's
glove. Gertrude held Mary's hand, and gazed straight up into the fretted
roof, as if that were to her the chief marvel. Ethel stood and knelt,
but did not seem, to herself, to have the power of thinking or feeling.
She saw and heard -- that was all; she could not realise.

They drew her forward, when it was over, to sign her name, as witness.
She took up the pen, looked at the Flora May, written for the last time,
and found her hand so trembling, that she said, half smiling, that
she could not write. Mary was only too well pleased to supply the
deficiency. Dr. May looked at her anxiously, and asked whether she felt
overcome
He took it into his, and pressed it. Ethel knew, then, how much had been
undeveloped in her own mind, catching it, as it were, from his touch
and look. The thought of his past joy -- the sad fading of hope for
Margaret -- the fear and doubt for their present bride -- above all, the
sense that the fashion of this world passeth away; and that it is not
the outward scene, but our bearing in it, that is to last for ever.

The bells struck up, each peal ending with a crash that gave Ethel
some vague idea of fatality; and they all came back to the house, where
Margaret was ready, in the drawing-room, to receive them, looking
very pretty, in her soft blue dress, which especially became her fair
complexion and light brown hair. Ethel did not quite like the pink
colour on her cheeks, and feared that she had been shaken by Flora's
agitation in the morning; but she was very calm and bright, in the
affectionate greeting with which she held out her hands to the bride and
bridegroom, as they came in.

Mr. Rivers and Meta were the only guests, and, while Meta was seized
by the children, Margaret lay talking to Mr. Rivers, George standing
upright and silent behind her sofa, like a sentinel. Flora was gone
to change her dress, not giving way, but nervous and hurried, as she
reiterated parting directions about household comforts to Ethel, who
stood by the toilette-table, sticking a pin into the pincushion and
drawing it out again, as if solely intent on making it always fit into
the same hole, while Mary dressed Flora, packed, flew about, and was
useful.

As they came downstairs, Ethel found that Flora was trembling from head
to foot, and leaning on her; Dr. May stood at the foot of the stairs,
and folded his daughter in a long embrace; Flora gave herself up to it
as if she would never bear to leave it. Did a flash come over her then,
what the father was, whom she had held cheaply? what was the worth of
that for which she had exchanged such a home? She spoke not a word, she
only clung tightly -- if her heart failed her -- it was too late
he said at last
A coming tread warned them to part. There was a tray of luncheon for the
two who were about to depart, and the great snow-white cake was waiting
for Flora to cut it. She smiled, accomplished that feat steadily, and
Norman continuing the operation, Aubrey guided Gertrude in handing round
the slices. George did full justice thereto, as well as to the more
solid viands. Flora could taste nothing, but she contrived to smile and
say it was too early. She was in haste to have it over now, and, as soon
as George had finished, she rose up, still composed and resolved, the
last kisses were given -- Gertrude was lifted up to her, after she was in
the carriage for the very last, when George proposed to run away with
her also, whereupon Daisy kicked and screamed, and was taken back in
haste. The door was shut, and they drove off, bound for the Continent,
and then Mary, as if the contingency of losing Flora had only for the
first time occurred to her as the consequence of the wedding, broke out
into a piteous fit of sobbing -- rather too unrestrained, considering her
fourteen years.

Poor Mary, she was a very child still! They pulled her into the study,
out of the way of Mr. Rivers, and Meta had no sooner said how Flora
would soon come home and live at the Grange, and talked of the grand
school-feast to which she was at once going to take her friends, than
the round rosy face drew out of its melancholy puckers into smiles, as
Mary began to tell the delight caused by the invitations which she
had conveyed. That was to be a feast indeed -- all the Abbotstoke
children -- all Flora's class at Stoneborough, and as many Cocksmoor
scholars as could walk so far, were to dine on Christmas fare, at
one o'clock, at the Grange, and Meta was in haste to be at home to
superintend the feast.

Mary, Blanche, and Aubrey, went with her, under the keeping of Miss
Bracy, the boys were to follow. She had hoped for Ethel, but on looking
at her, ceased her coaxing importunity
she said kindly
said Ethel
said Meta
said Ethel
And quiet it was in another hour -- Gertrude walking with the nurses, Dr.
May gone to his patients, and all the rest at Abbotstoke, except Richard
and Margaret downstairs; and Ethel, who, while arranging her properties
in her new room, had full leisure to lay out before herself the duties
that had devolved on her and to grapple with them. She recalled the
many counsels that she had received from Flora, and they sounded so
bewildering that she wished it had been Conic sections, and then she
looked at a Hebrew grammar that Norman had given her, and gave a sigh as
she slipped it into the shelf of the seldom used. She looked about the
room, cleared out the last piece of brown paper, and burned the last
torn envelope, that no relic of packing and change might distress
Margaret's eyes for order; then feeling at once desolate and intrusive,
she sat down in Flora's fireside chair, opened her desk, and took out
her last time-table. She looked at it for some minutes, laid it aside,
and rising, knelt down. Again seating herself, she resumed her paper,
took a blank one, ruled it, and wrote her rules for each hour of each
day in the week. That first hour after breakfast, when hitherto she had
been free, was one sacrifice; it must go now, to ordering dinner,
seeing after stores, watching over the children's clothes, and the
other nondescripts, which, happily for her, Flora had already reduced to
method. The other loss was the spare time between the walk and tea; she
must not spend that in her own room now, or there would be no one to sit
with Margaret, or keep the little ones from being troublesome to her.
Ethel had often had to give up this space before, when Flora went out in
the evening, and she had seldom felt otherwise than annoyed. Give it
up for good! that was the cure for temper, but it had been valuable as
something of her own. She would have been thankful could she have
hoped to keep regularly to her own rules, but that she knew was utterly
improbable -- boys, holidays, callers, engagements, Dr. May, would all
conspire to turn half her days upside down, and Cocksmoor itself must
often depend not only on the weather, but on home doings. Two or three
notes she wrote at the foot of her paper
Her rules drawn up, Ethel knelt once more. Then she drew a long sigh,
and wondered where Flora was; and next, as she was fairly fagged, mind
and body, she threw herself back in the armchair, took up a railway
novel that Hector had brought home, and which they had hidden from the
children, and repaired herself with the luxury of an idle reading.

Margaret and Richard likewise spent a peaceful, though pensive
afternoon. Margaret had portions of letters from Alan to read to him,
and a consultation to hold. The hope of her full recovery had so melted
away, that she had, in every letter, striven to prepare Mr. Ernescliffe
for the disappointment, and each that she received in return was so
sanguine and affectionate, that the very fondness was as much grief as
joy. She could not believe that he took in the true state of the case,
or was prepared to perceive that she could never be his wife, and she
wanted Richard to write one of his clear, dispassionate statements,
such as carried full conviction, and to help to put a final end to the
engagement
said Richard
said Richard
said
Margaret
There was a pause, while Margaret saw that her brother was thinking. At
last he said
murmured Margaret
said Richard
he said
said Margaret, sadly smiling
said Richard
said Margaret
said Richard
said Margaret
and he paused tenderly
said Margaret
said she, smiling
said Margaret
said Richard kindly
said Margaret
This came from Margaret's heart, so as to show that if there had once
been a jealous pang of mortification, it had been healed by overflowing,
unselfish affection and humility.

They went off to praise Ethel, and thence to praise Norman, and the
elder brother and sister, who might have had some jealousy of the
superiority of their juniors, spent a good happy hour in dwelling on the
shining qualities they loved so heartily.

And Richard was drawn into talking of his own deeper thoughts, and
Margaret had again the comfort of clerical counsel -- and now from her own
most dear brother! So they sat till darkness closed in, when Ethel came
down, bringing Gertrude and her great favour, very full of chatter, only
not quite sure whether she had been bride, bride's-maid, or bridegroom.

The schoolroom set, with Tom and Aubrey, came home soon after, and
tongues went fast with stories of roast-beef, plum-pudding, and
blind-man's-buff. How the dear Meta had sent a cart to Cocksmoor to
bring Cherry herself, and how many slices everybody had eaten, and how
the bride's health had been drunk by the children in real wine, and how
they had all played, Norman and all, and how Hector had made Blanche
bold enough to extract a raisin from the flaming snap-dragon. It was
not half told when Dr. May came home, and Ethel went up to dress for
her dinner at Abbotstoke, Mary following to help her and continue her
narration, which bade fair to entertain Margaret the whole evening.

Dr. May, Richard, and Ethel had a comfortable dark drive to the Grange,
and, on arriving, found Hector deep in
while
Norman and Meta were sitting over the fire talking, and Mr. Rivers was
resting in his library.

And when Ethel and Meta spent the time before the gentlemen came in
from the dining-room, in a happy tete-a-tete, Ethel learned that the
fire-light dialogue had been the pleasantest part of the whole day, and
that Meta had had confided to her the existence of Decius Mus -- a secret
which Ethel had hitherto considered as her own peculiar property, but
she supposed it was a pledge of the sisterhood, which Meta professed
with all the house of May
The rest all accepted the kind invitation,
     And much bustle it caused in the plumed creation;
     Such ruffling of feathers, such pruning of coats,
     Such chirping, such whistling, such clearing of throats,
     Such polishing bills, and such oiling of pinions,
     Had never been known in the biped dominions.
                                       Peacock at Home.


Etheldred was thankful for that confidence to Meta Rivers, for without
it, she would hardly have succeeded in spurring Norman up to give the
finishing touches to Decius, and to send him in. If she talked of the
poem as the devotion of Decius, he was willing enough, and worked with
spirit, for he liked the ideas, and enjoyed the expressing them, and
trying to bring his lines to his notion of perfection, but if she called
it the
or the
and declared herself sure it
would be successful, he yawned, slackened, leaned back in his chair,
and began to read other people's poetry, which Ethel was disrespectful
enough not to think nearly as good as his own.

It was completed at last, and Ethel stitched it up with a narrow red and
white ribbon -- the Balliol colours; and set Meta at him till a promise
was extorted that he would send it in.

And, in due time, Ethel received the following note:


"My Dear Ethel,--

"My peacock bubble has flown over the house.
Tell them all about it.

Your affectionate,
                                          N. W. M."


They were too much accustomed to Norman's successes to be
extraordinarily excited; Ethel would have been much mortified if the
prize had been awarded to any one else, but, as it was, it came rather
as a matter of course. The doctor was greatly pleased, and said he
should drive round by Abbotstoke to tell the news there, and then
laughed beyond measure to hear that Meta had been in the plot, saying
he should accuse the little humming-bird of being a magpie, stealing
secrets.

By this time the bride and bridegroom were writing that they thought of
soon returning; they had spent the early spring at Paris, had wandered
about in the south of France, and now were at Paris again. Flora's
letters were long, descriptive, and affectionate, and she was eager to
be kept fully informed of everything at home. As soon as she heard of
Norman's success, she wrote a whole budget of letters, declaring that
she and George would hear of no refusal; they were going to spend a
fortnight at Oxford for the Commemoration, and must have Meta and Ethel
with them to hear Norman's poem in the theatre.

Dr. May, who already had expressed a hankering to run up for the day and
take Ethel with him, was perfectly delighted at the proposal, and so was
Mr. Rivers, but the young ladies made many demurs. Ethel wanted Mary to
go in her stead, and had to be told that this would not be by any means
the same to the other parties -- she could not bear to leave Margaret; it
was a long time since there had been letters from the Alcestis, and she
did not like to miss being at home when they should come; and Meta, on
her side, was so unwilling to leave her father that, at last, Dr. May
scolded them both for a pair of conceited, self-important damsels, who
thought nothing could go on without them; and next, compared them to
young birds, obliged to be shoved by force into flying.

Meta consented first, on condition that Ethel would; and Ethel found
that her whole house would be greatly disappointed if she refused,
so she proceeded to be grateful, and then discovered how extremely
delightful the plan was. Oxford, of which she had heard so much, and
which she had always wished to see! And Norman's glory -- and Meta's
company -- nay, the very holiday, and going from home, were charms enough
for a girl of eighteen, who had never been beyond Whitford in her life.
Besides, to crown all, papa promised that, if his patients would behave
well, and not want him too much, he would come up for the one great day.

Mr. and Mrs. George Rivers came to Abbotstoke to collect their party.
They arrived by a railroad, whose station was nearer to Abbotstoke than
to Stoneborough, therefore, instead of their visiting the High Street
by the way, Dr. May, with Ethel and Mary, were invited to dine at the
Grange, the first evening -- a proposal, at least, as new and exciting to
Mary as was the journey to Oxford to her sister.

The two girls went early, as the travellers had intended to arrive
before luncheon, and, though Ethel said few words, but let Mary rattle
on with a stream of conjectures and questions, her heart was full of
longings for her sister, as well as of strange doubts and fears, as to
the change that her new life might have made in her
cried Mary
Flora and Meta were both standing on the steps before the conservatory,
and Mary made but one bound before she was hugging Flora. Ethel kissed
her without so much violence, and then saw that Flora was looking very
well and bright, more decidedly pretty and elegant than ever, and with
certainly no diminution of affection; it was warmer, though rather more
patronising
was her first exclamation, as she held Mary's
hand, and drew Ethel's arm into hers
said Ethel, smiling
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
cried Flora
said Meta
Flora held up her hand, and, while signing invitation, gave an arch look
to Meta to be silent. Ethel here bethought herself of inquiring after
Mr. Rivers, and then for George.

Mr. Rivers was pretty well -- George, quite well, and somewhere in the
garden; and Meta said that he had such a beard that they would hardly
know him; while Flora added that he was delighted with the Oxford
scheme. Flora's rooms had been, already, often shown to her sisters,
when Mr. Rivers had been newly furnishing them, with every luxury and
ornament that taste could devise. Her dressing-room, with the large bay
window, commanding a beautiful view of Stoneborough, and filled, but not
crowded, with every sort of choice article, was a perfect exhibition to
eyes unaccustomed to such varieties.

Mary could have been still amused by the hour, in studying the devices
and ornaments on the shelves and chiffonieres; and Blanche had romanced
about it to the little ones, till they were erecting it into a mythical
palace.

And Flora, in her simple, well-chosen dress, looked, and moved, as if
she had been born and bred in the like.

There were signs of unpacking about the room-Flora's dressing-case on
the table, and some dresses lying on the sofa and ottoman.

Mary ran up to them eagerly, and exclaimed at the beautiful shot blue
and white silk
said Ethel carelessly
said Flora
and Meta laughed heartily
said Ethel
said Flora maliciously
said Ethel, beginning to be frightened
as Ethel saw Meta in fits
of laughing, and Flora making affirmative signs. Mary gave a ponderous
spring of ecstasy
said Flora
said Ethel, turning towards the
pier-glass, and surveying herself -- in a white muslin, made high, a black
silk mantle, and a brown hat. She had felt very respectable when she set
out, but she could not avoid a lurking conviction that, beside Flora and
Meta, it had a scanty, schoolgirl effect
she continued quaintly
said Meta, sinking back on the sofa
continued Flora
Meta opened the folding-doors into Flora's bedroom, and thence came
forward Bellairs and a little brisk Frenchwoman, whom Flora had acquired
at Paris. The former, who was quite used to adorning Miss Ethel against
her will, looked as amused as her mistresses; and, before Ethel knew
what was going on, her muslin was stripped off her back, and that
instrument of torture, a half made body, was being tried upon her. She
made one of her most wonderful grimaces of despair, and stood still. The
dresses were not so bad after all; they were more tasteful than costly,
and neither in material nor ornament were otherwise than suitable to the
occasion and the wearer. It was very kind and thoughtful of Flora -- that
she could not but feel -- nothing had been forgotten, but when Ethel saw
the mantles, the ribbons, the collars, the bonnet, all glistening with
the French air of freshness and grace, she began to feel doubts and
hesitations, whether she ought to let her sister go to such an expense
on her account, and privately resolved that the accepting thanks should
not be spoken till she should have consulted her father.

In the meantime, she could only endure, be laughed at by her elders, and
entertained by Mary's extreme pleasure in her array. Good Mary -- it
was more than any comedy to her; she had not one moment's thought
of herself, till, when Flora dived into her box, produced a pair of
bracelets, and fastened them on her comfortable plump arms, her eyes
grew wide with wonder, and she felt, at least, two stages nearer
womanhood.

Flora had omitted no one. There was a Paris present for every servant at
home, and a needle-case even for Cherry Elwood, for which Ethel thanked
her with a fervency wanting in her own case.

She accomplished consulting her father on her scruples, and he set her
mind at rest. He knew that the outlay was a mere trifle to the Riverses,
and was greatly pleased and touched with the affection that Flora
showed; so he only smiled at Ethel's doubts, and dwelt with heartfelt
delight on the beautiful print that she had brought him, from Ary
Scheffer's picture of the Great Consoler.

Flora was in her glory. To be able to bestow benefits on those whom she
loved, had been always a favourite vision, and she had the full pleasure
of feeling how much enjoyment she was causing. They had a very pleasant
evening; she gave interesting accounts of their tour, and by her appeals
to her husband, made him talk also. He was much more animated and
agreeable than Ethel had ever seen him, and was actually laughing,
and making Mary laugh heartily with his histories of the inns in the
Pyrennees. Old Mr. Rivers looked as proud and happy as possible, and
was quite young and gay, having evidently forgotten all his maladies, in
paying elaborate attention to his daughter-in-law.

Ethel told Margaret, that night, that she was quite satisfied about
Flora -- she was glad to own that she had done her injustice, and that
Norman was right in saying there was more in George Rivers than met the
eye.

The morning spent at home was equally charming. Flora came back, with
love strengthened by absence. She was devoted to Margaret -- caressing to
all; she sat in her old places; she fulfilled her former offices; she
gratified Miss Bracy by visiting her in the schoolroom, and talking of
French books; and won golden opinions, by taking Gertrude in her hand,
and walking to Minster Street to call on Mrs. Hoxton, as in old times,
and take her the newest foreign device of working to kill time.

So a few days passed merrily away, and the great journey commenced.
Ethel met the Abbotstoke party at the station, and, with a parting
injunction to her father, that he was to give all his patients a
sleeping potion, that they might not miss him, she was carried away from
Stoneborough.

Meta was in her gayest mood; Ethel full of glee and wonder, for once
beyond Whitford, the whole world was new to her; Flora more quiet, but
greatly enjoying their delight, and George not saying much, but smiling
under his beard, as if well pleased to be so well amused with so little
trouble.

He took exceeding care of them, and fed them with everything he could
make them eat at the Swindon Station, asking for impossible things, and
wishing them so often to change for something better, that, if they had
been submissive, they would have had no luncheon at all; and, as it was,
Flora was obliged to whisk into the carriage with her last sandwich in
her hand
said he, after grumbling at the allotted ten
minutes
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Meta
said Flora
said
Ethel
said Flora
added she
Norman met them at the station, and there was great excitement at seeing
his long nose under his college cap. He looked rather thin and worn, but
brightened at the sight of the party. After the question -- whether
there had been any letters from Harry? he asked whether his father
were coming?-- and Ethel thought he seemed nervous at the idea of this
addition to his audience. He saw them to their hotel, and, promising
them his two guests, departed.

Ethel watched collegiate figures passing in the street, and recollected
the gray buildings, just glimpsed at in her drive -- it was dreamy and
confused, and she stood musing, not discovering that it was time to
dress, till Flora and her Frenchwoman came in, and laid violent hands on
her.

The effect of their manipulations was very successful. Ethel was made to
look well-dressed, and, still more, distinguished. Her height told well,
when her lankiness was overcome, and her hair was disposed so as to set
off her features to advantage. The glow of amusement and pleasure did
still more for her; and Norman, who was in the parlour when the sisters
appeared, quite started with surprise and satisfaction at her aspect
he said
said Flora
she said,
in her universal amity
Norman started, and his face said
said Norman hurriedly
said he
reiterated Flora
was the blunt answer; and, at the same instant,
Mr. Ogilvie arrived. He was a pleasant, high-bred looking gentleman,
brown-complexioned, and dark-eyed, with a brisk and resolute cast
of countenance, that, Ethel thought, might have suited the Norman of
Glenbracken, who died on the ruddy Lion of Scotland, and speaking with
the very same slight degree of Scottish intonation as she remembered in
her mother, making a most home-like sound in her ears.

Presently, the rest of their own party came down, and, soon after,
Charles Cheviot appeared, looking as quiet and tame, as he used to be in
the schoolboy days, when Norman would bring him home, and he used to be
too shy to speak a word.

However, he had learned the use of his tongue by this time, though it
was a very soft one; and he stood by Ethel, asking many questions about
Stoneborough, while something, apparently very spirited and amusing, was
going on between the others.

The dinner went off well -- there were few enough for the conversation to
be general. The young men began to strike out sparks of wit against each
other -- Flora put in a word or two -- Ethel grew so much interested in the
discussion, that her face lighted up, and she joined in it, as if it had
been only between her father and brother -- keen, clear, and droll. After
that, she had her full share in the conversation, and enjoyed it so much
that, when she left the dinner-table, she fetched her writing-case to
sketch the colloquy for Margaret and her father.

Flora exclaimed at her for never allowing any one to think of rest. Meta
said she should like to do the same, but it was impossible now; she did
not know how she should ever settle down to write a letter. Ethel was
soon interrupted -- the gentlemen entered, and Mr. Ogilvie came to the
window, where she was sitting, and began to tell her how much obliged
to her he and his college were, for having insisted on her brother's
sending in his poem
he said
she asked, and she was amused by the quick negative
movement of his head
said Ethel, smiling
and he looked towards her paper-case.

There was the copy, and she took it out, peering to see whether Norman
were looking
he said, as she paused to open the MS
Here Mr. Ogilvie took the paper, and Ethel saw his countenance show
evident tokens of surprise and feeling
he said presently
said Ethel
said Norman Ogilvie
said Ethel
Her pause was expressive
said he, with
an intonation of absurd sentiment
then, perceiving a knowing twinkle, as if he thought she
had made an admission, she added
said Mr. Ogilvie
said Ethel
said Mr.
Ogilvie
for she grew rather ashamed of having
been impelled to utter the personal allusion
coolly answered the Master
of Glenbracken
was all that Ethel could say in her indignation
he answered
called Norman
The rest of the evening was spent in arranging the programme of their
lionising, in which it appeared that the Scottish cousin intended to
take his full share. Ethel was not sorry, for he interested her much,
while provoking her. She was obliged to put out her full strength in
answering him, and felt, at the same time, that he was not making any
effort in using the arguments that puzzled her -- she was in earnest,
while he was at play; and, though there was something teasing in this,
and she knew it partook of what her brothers called chaffing, it gave
her that sense of power on his side, which is always attractive to
women. With the knowledge that, through Norman, she had of his real
character, she understood that half, at least, of what he said was jest;
and the other half was enough in earnest to make it exciting to argue
with him
While I, thy dearest, sat apart,
     And felt thy triumphs were as mine,
     And lov'd them more than they were thine.
                                            TENNYSON.


That was a week of weeks; the most memorable week in Ethel's life, spent
in indefatigable sight-seeing. College Chapels, Bodleian Library, Taylor
Gallery, the Museum, all were thoroughly studied, and, if Flora had not
dragged the party on, in mercy to poor George's patience, Ethel would
never have got through a day's work.

Indeed, Mr. Ogilvie, when annoyed at being hurried in going over
Merton Chapel with her, was heard to whisper that he acted the part of
policeman, by a perpetual "move on"; and as Ethel recollected the portly
form and wooden face of the superintendent at Stoneborough, she was
afraid that the comparison would not soon be forgotten. Norman Ogilvie
seemed to consider himself bound to their train as much as his namesake,
or, as on the second morning, Norman reported his reasoning, it was that
a man must walk about with somebody on Commemoration week, and that it
was a comfort to do so with ladies who wore their bonnets upon their
heads, instead of, like most of those he met, remind him of what Cock
Robin said to Jenny Wren in that matrimonial quarrel, when


             Robin, he grew angry,
             Hopped upon a twig --


Flora was extremely delighted, and, in matronly fashion, told her sister
that people were always respected and admired who had the strength of
mind to resist unsuitable customs. Ethel laughed in answer, and said
she thought it would take a great deal more strength of mind to go about
with her whole visage exposed to the universal gaze; and, woman-like,
they had a thorough gossip over the evils of the "backsliding"
 head-gear.

Norman had retreated from it into the window, when Flora returned to the
charge about Harvey Anderson. She had been questioning their old friend
Mr. Everard, and had learned from him that the cause of the hesitation
with which his name had been received was that he had become imbued with
some of the Rationalistic ideas current in some quarters. He seldom met
Norman May without forcing on him debates, which were subjects of great
interest to the hearers, as the two young men were considered as the
most distinguished representatives of their respective causes, among
their own immediate contemporaries. Norman's powers of argument, his
eloquence, readiness, and clearness, were thought to rank very high,
and, in the opinion of Mr. Everard, had been of great effect in
preventing other youths from being carried away by the specious
brilliancy of his rival.

Ethel valued this testimony far above the Newdigate prize, and she was
extremely surprised by hearing Flora declare her intention of still
asking Mr. Anderson to dinner, only consulting her brother as to the
day
Norman had turned away with the simple answer
said Flora
said Ethel stoutly
smiled Flora
Ethel felt the force of the pronoun, and, as Flora walked out of the
room, she went up to Norman, who had been resting his brow against the
window
she said
She stopped short, frightened at his pale look.

He spoke in a low clear tone that seemed to thrill her with a sort of
alarm
she began; but he made a gesture as if he
would not hear, and, at the same moment, Mr. Ogilvie entered the room.

Had Ethel been at home, she would have pondered much over her brother's
meaning -- here she had no leisure. Not only was she fully occupied with
the new scenes around her, but her Scottish cousin took up every moment
open to conversation. He was older than Norman, and had just taken
his degree, and he talked with that superior aplomb, which a few years
bestow at their time of life, without conceit, but more hopeful and
ambitious, and with higher spirits than his cousin.

Though industrious and distinguished, he had not avoided society or
amusement, was a great cricketer and tennis-player, one of the "eight"
 whose success in the boat races was one of Norman's prime interests,
and he told stories of frolics that reminded Ethel of her father's old
Cambridge adventures.

He was a new variety in her eyes, and entertained her greatly. Where the
bounds of banter ended, was not easy to define, but whenever he tried
a little mystification, she either entered merrily into the humour, or
threw it over with keen wit that he kept constantly on the stretch. They
were always discovering odd, unexpected bits of knowledge in each other,
and a great deal more accordance in views and opinions than appealed on
the surface, for his enthusiasm usually veiled itself in persiflage on
hers, though he was too good and serious to carry it too far.

At Blenheim, perhaps he thought he had given an overdose of nonsense,
and made her believe, as Meta really did, that the Duchess Sarah was
his model woman; for as they walked in the park in search of Phoebe
Mayflower's well, he gathered a fern leaf, to show her the Glenbracken
badge, and talked to her of his home, his mother, and his sister
Marjorie, and the little church in the rocky glen. He gave the history
of the stolen meetings of the little knot of churchmen during the days
of persecution, and showed a heart descended straight from the Ogilvie
who was
now that the upper structure of young
England was for a little while put aside.

After this, she took his jokes much more coolly, and made thrusts
beneath them, which he seemed to enjoy, and caused him to unfold himself
the more. She liked him all the better for finding that he thought
Norman had been a very good friend to him, and that he admired her
brother heartily, watching tenderly over his tendencies to make himself
unhappy. He confided to her that, much as he rejoiced in the defeats
of Anderson, he feared that the reading and thought consequent on the
discussions, had helped to overstrain Norman's mind, and he was very
anxious to carry him away from all study, and toil, and make his brains
rest, and his eyes delight themselves upon Scottish mountains.

Thereupon came vivid descriptions of the scenery, especially his own
glen with the ruined tower, and ardent wishes that his cousin Ethel
could see them also, and know Marjorie. She could quite echo the wish,
Edinburgh and Loch Katrine had been the visions of her life, and now
that she had once taken the leap and left home, absence did not seem
impossible, and, with a start of delight, she hailed her own conviction
that he intended his mother to invite the party to Glenbracken.

After Norman's visit, Mr. Ogilvie declared that he must come home with
him and pay his long-promised visit to Stoneborough. He should have come
long ago. He had been coming last winter, but the wedding had prevented
him; he had always wished to know Dr. May, whom his father well
remembered, and now nothing should keep him away!

Flora looked on amused and pleased at Ethel's development -- her
abruptness softened into piquancy, and her countenance so embellished,
that the irregularity only added to the expressiveness. There was no
saying what Ethel would come to! She had not said that she would not go
to the intended ball, and her grimaces at the mention of it were growing
fainter every day.

The discussion about Harvey Anderson was never revived; Flora sent
the invitation without another word -- he came with half a dozen other
gentlemen -- Ethel made him a civil greeting, but her head was full of
boats and the procession day, about which Mr. Ogilvie was telling her,
and she thought of him no more
thought Flora
It would make stay-at-home people giddy to record how much pleasure,
how much conversation and laughter were crowded into those ten days, and
with much thought and feeling beside them, for these were not girls on
whom grave Oxford could leave no impression but one of gaiety.

The whole party was very full of merriment. Norman May, especially, on
whom Flora contrived to devolve that real leadership of conversation
that should rightly have belonged to George Rivers, kept up the ball
with wit and drollery far beyond what he usually put forth; enlivened
George into being almost an agreeable man, and drew out little Meta's
vivacity into sunny sparkles.

Meta generally had Norman for her share, and seemed highly contented
with his lionisings, which were given much more quietly and copiously
than those which his cousin bestowed upon his sister. Or if there were
anything enterprising to be done, any tower to be mounted, or anything
with the smallest spice of danger in it, Meta was charmed, and with her
lightness and airiness of foot and figure, and perfectly feminine ways,
showed a spirit of adventure that added to the general diversion. But if
she were to be helped up or down anywhere, she certainly seemed to
find greater security in Norman May's assistance, though it was but a
feather-like touch that she ever used to aid her bounding step.

Both as being diffident, and, in a manner at home, Norman was not as
constantly her cavalier as was Mr. Ogilvie to his sister; and, when
supplanted, his wont was either to pioneer for Flora, or, if she did not
need him, to walk alone, grave and abstracted. There was a weight on his
brow, when nothing was going on to drive it away, and whether it were
nervousness as to the performance in store for him, anxiety about Harry,
or, as Mr. Ogilvie said, too severe application; some burden hung upon
him, that was only lightened for the time by his participation in the
enjoyment of the party.

On Sunday evening, when they had been entering into the almost
vision-like delight of the choicest of music, and other accompaniments
of church service, they went to walk in Christchurch Meadows. They
had begun altogether by comparing feelings -- Ethel wondering whether
Stoneborough Minster would ever be used as it might be, and whether, if
so, they should be practically the better for it; and proceeding with
metaphysics on her side, and satire on Norman Ogilvie's, to speculate
whether that which is, is best, and the rights and wrongs of striving
for change and improvements, what should begin from above, and what from
beneath -- with illustrations often laughter-moving, though they were
much in earnest, as the young heir of Glenbracken looked into his future
life.

Flora had diverged into wondering who would have the living after poor
old Mr. Ramsden, and walked, keeping her husband amused with instances
of his blunders.

Meta, as with Norman she parted from the rest, thought her own dear
Abbotstoke church, and Mr Charles Wilmot, great subjects for content and
thanksgiving, though it was a wonderful treat to see and hear such as
she had enjoyed to-day; and she thought it was a joy, to carry away
abidingly, to know that praise and worship, as near perfection as this
earth could render them, were being offered up.

Norman understood her thought, but responded by more of a sigh than was
quite comfortable.

Meta went on with her own thoughts, on the connection between worship
and good works, how the one leads to the other, and how praise with pure
lips is, after all, the great purpose of existence.-- Her last thought
she spoke aloud
she said
echoed Norman; but as if his thoughts were not quite with hers,
or rather in another part of the same subject; then recalling himself
said Meta
exclaimed Norman
said Meta
said Norman again
said Meta. Silence again;
and when she spoke, she said
said Norman
said Meta
he answered
said Meta
said Norman
said Meta
said Norman; and yet he seemed
impelled to go on; for, after a hesitating silence, he added
she said, rather bewildered
eagerly said Norman, standing still
said Meta, hardly knowing how she came to choose the words
he repeated
said Norman
said Meta, looking up, smiling in his
face
said Norman sadly
said Meta, laughing
He gave a deep sigh
she said
Meta talked away gaily for the rest of the walk. She was anything but
unfeeling, but she had a confidence in Norman that forbade her to see
anything here but one of his variations of spirits, which always sank in
the hour of triumph. She put forth her brightness to enliven him, and,
in their subsequent tete-a-tetes, she avoided all that could lead to a
renewal of this conversation. Ethel would not have rested till it had
been fought out. Meta thought it so imaginary, that it had better die
for want of the aliment of words; certainly, hers could not reach an
intellect like his, and she would only soothe and amuse him. Dr. May,
mind-curer as well as body-curer, would soon be here, to put the climax
to the general joy and watch his own son.

He did arrive; quite prepared to enjoy, giving an excellent account of
both homes; Mr. Rivers very well, and the Wilmots taking care of him,
and Margaret as comfortable as usual, Mary making a most important and
capable little housekeeper, Miss Bracy as good as possible. He talked
as if they had all nourished the better for Ethel's absence, but he had
evidently missed her greatly, as he showed, without knowing it, by his
instant eagerness to have her to himself. Even Norman, prizeman as he
was, was less wanted. There was proud affection, eager congratulation,
for him, but it was Ethel to whom he wanted to tell everything that had
passed during her absence -- whom he treated as if they were meeting after
a tedious separation.

They dined rather early, and went out afterwards, to walk down the High
Street to Christchurch Meadow. Norman and Ethel had been anxious for
this; they thought it would give their father the best idea of the tout
ensemble of Oxford, and were not without hopes of beating him by his own
confession, in that standing fight between him and his sons, as to the
beauties of Oxford and Cambridge -- a fight in which, hitherto, they had
been equally matched -- neither partisan having seen the rival University.

Flora stayed at home; she owned herself fairly tired by her arduous
duties of following the two young ladies about, and was very glad
to give her father the keeping of them. Dr. May held out his arm to
Ethel -- Norman secured his peculiar property. Ethel could have preferred
that it should be otherwise -- Norman would have no companion but George
Rivers; how bored he would be!

All through the streets, while she was telling her father the names of
the buildings, she was not giving her whole attention; she was trying
to guess, from the sounds behind, whether Mr. Ogilvie were accompanying
them. They entered the meadows -- Norman turned round, with a laugh, to
defy the doctor to talk of the Cam, on the banks of the Isis. The
party stood still -- the other two gentlemen came up. They amalgamated
again -- all the Oxonians conspiring to say spiteful things of the Cam,
and Dr. May making a spirited defence, in which Ethel found herself
impelled to join.

In the wide gravelled path, they proceeded in threes; George attached
himself to his sister and Norman. Mr. Ogilvie came to Ethel's other
side, and began to point out all the various notabilities. Ethel was
happy again; her father was so much pleased and amused, with him, and he
with her father, that it was a treat to look on.

Presently Dr. May, as usual, always meeting with acquaintances, fell in
with a county neighbour, and Ethel had another pleasant aside, until her
father claimed her, and Mr. Ogilvie was absorbed among another party,
and lost to her sight.

He came to tea, but, by that time, Dr. May had established himself in
the chair which had hitherto been appropriated to her cousin, a chair
that cut her nook off from the rest of the world, and made her the
exclusive possession of the occupant. There was a most interesting
history for her to hear, of a meeting with the Town Council, which
she had left pending, when Dr. May had been battling to save the next
presentation of the living from being sold.

Few subjects could affect Ethel more nearly, yet she caught herself
missing the thread of his discourse, in trying to hear what Mr. Ogilvie
was saying to Flora about a visit to Glenbracken.

The time came for the two Balliol men to take their leave. Norman May
had been sitting very silent all the evening, and Meta, who was near
him, respected his mood. When he said good-night, he drew Ethel outside
the door
he said
said Ethel, half smiling
The other Norman came out of the sitting-room at the moment, and heard
the last words
said he to Ethel
said Norman, sighing
Dr. May laughed a good deal at the request, and asked if the rest of
the party were to be blindfolded. Meta wondered that Ethel should have
mentioned the request so publicly; she was a good deal touched by it,
and she thought Dr. May ought to be so.

Good-night was said, and Dr. May put his arm round Ethel, and gave her
the kiss that she had missed for seven nights. It was very homelike,
and it brought a sudden flash of thought across Ethel! What had she been
doing? She had been impatient of her father's monopoly of her!

She parted with Flora, and entered the room she shared with Meta, where
Bellairs waited to attend her little mistress. Few words passed between
the two girls, and those chiefly on the morrow's dress. Meta had some
fixed ideas -- she should wear pink. Norman had said he liked her pink
bonnet, and then she could put down her white veil, so that he could be
certain that she was not looking; Ethel vaguely believed Flora meant to
wear -- something --

Bellairs went away, and Meta gave expression to her eager hope that
Norman would go through it well. If he would only read it as he did last
Easter to her and Ethel
said Ethel
said
Meta, with a little suppressed indignation
said Ethel
said Meta
said Ethel,
with her usual lucidity of expression
said Ethel
said Meta, remembering the Sunday talk
said Ethel
Very different were the feelings with which those two young girls
stretched themselves in their beds that night. Margaret Rivers's
innocent, happy little heart was taken up in one contemplation.
Admiration, sympathy, and the exultation for him, which he would not
feel for himself, drew little Meta entirely out of herself -- a self that
never held her much. She was proud of the slender thread of connection
between them; she was confident that his vague fancies were but the
scruples of a sensitive mind, and, as she fell sound asleep, she
murmured broken lines of Decius, mixed with promises not to look.

Etheldred heard them, for there was no sleep for her. She had a parley
to hold with herself, and to accuse her own feelings of having been
unkind, ungrateful, undutiful towards her father. What had a fit of
vanity brought her to? that she should have been teased by what would
naturally have been her greatest delight! her father's pleasure in being
with her. Was this the girl who had lately vowed within herself that her
father should be her first earthly object?

At first, Ethel blamed herself for her secret impatience, but another
conviction crossed her, and not an unpleasing one, though it made her
cheeks tingle with maidenly shame, at having called it up. Throughout
this week, Norman Ogilvie had certainly sought her out. He had looked
disappointed this evening -- there was no doubt that he was attracted by
her -- by her, plain, awkward Ethel! Such a perception assuredly never
gave so much pleasure to a beauty as it did to Ethel, who had always
believed herself far less good-looking than she really was. It was a
gleam of delight, and, though she set herself to scold it down, the
conviction was elastic, and always leaped up again.

That resolution came before her, but it had been unspoken; it could not
be binding, and, if her notion were really right, the misty brilliant
future of mutual joy dazzled her! But there was another side: her father
oppressed and lonely, Margaret ill and pining, Mary, neither companion
nor authority, the children running wild; and she, who had mentally
vowed never to forsake her father, far away, enjoying her own happiness
thought Ethel
It was a great struggle -- on one side there was the deceitful guise of
modesty, telling her it was absurd to give so much importance to the
kindness of the first cousin with whom she had ever been thrown; there
was the dislike to vex Flora to make a discussion, and break up the
party. There was the desire to hear the concert, to go to the breakfast
at ---- College, to return round by Warwick Castle, and Kenilworth, as
designed. Should she lose all this for a mere flattering fancy? She, who
had laughed at Miss Boulder, for imagining every one who spoke to
her was smitten. What reason could she assign? It would be simply
ridiculous, and unkind -- and it was so very pleasant. Mr. Ogilvie would
be too wise to think of so incongruous a connection, which would be so
sure to displease his parents. It was more absurd than ever to think of
it. The heir of Glenbracken, and a country physician's daughter!

That was a candid heart which owned that its own repugnance to accept
this disparity as an objection, was an additional evidence that she
ought to flee from further intercourse. She believed that no harm was
done yet; she was sure that she loved her father better than anything
else in the world, and whilst she did so, it was best to preserve her
heart for him. Widowed as he was, she knew that he would sorely miss
her, and that for years to come, she should be necessary at home. She
had better come away while it would cost only a slight pang, for that it
was pain to leave Norman Ogilvie, was symptom enough of the need of not
letting her own silly heart go further. However it might be with him,
another week would only make it worse with her
was the ultimatum reached by each chain of
mental reasonings, and borne in after each short prayer for guidance, as
Ethel tossed about listening to the perpetual striking of all the Oxford
clocks, until daylight had begun to shine in; when she fell asleep, and
was only waked by Meta, standing over her with a sponge, looking very
mischievous, as she reminded her of their appointment with Dr. May, to
go to the early service in New College Chapel.

The world looked different that morning with Ethel, but the
determination was fixed, and the service strengthened it. She was so
silent during the walk, that her companions rallied her, and they both
supposed she was anxious about Norman; but taking her opportunity, when
Meta was gone to prepare for breakfast, she rushed, in her usual
way, into the subject
said the doctor, amazed
and Dr. May looked at the door, and spoke low
Ethel smiled
George came in, and they could say no more. Both were silent on the
subject at breakfast, but when afterwards Flora seized on Ethel, to
array her for the theatre, she was able to say
said Flora composedly
Flora turned her round, looked in her face kindly, kissed her, and said
said Ethel, becoming scarlet
said Ethel firmly, not denying the charge, though reddening
more than ever at finding her impression confirmed
said Flora tenderly
The words were spoken
with averted face and heaving breath
said Flora
said Flora, laughing
repeated Ethel, not answering the argument.

Flora changed her ground, and laughed
she said
Meta came in before Flora could say more, but Ethel, with burning
cheeks, repeated
Ethel had, meantime, been dressed by her sister; and, as Bellairs came
to adorn Meta, and she could have no solitude, she went downstairs,
thinking she heard Norman's step, and hoping to judge of his mood.

She entered the room with an exclamation
said the wrong Norman, looking merrily up from behind
a newspaper
he said, smiling
asked Ethel anxiously
said Ethel
continued her cousin
said Ethel, glancing towards the paper
He looked; and while she was thinking whether she ought not to depart,
he exclaimed, in a tone that startled her
said the trembling Ethel.

It was no more than an echo of their unconfessed apprehensions, yet it
seemed to give them a body; and Ethel's thoughts flew to Margaret. Her
going home would be absolutely necessary now. Mr. Ogilvie kindly began
to talk away her alarm, saying that there was still no reason for
dread, mentioning the many causes that might have delayed the ship, and
reassuring her greatly
she said
Ethel would fain have thrown off her finery and hurried home at once,
but no one regarded the matter as she did. Dr. May agreed with Flora
that it was no worse than before, and though they now thought Ethel's
return desirable, on Margaret's account, it would be better not to add
to the shock by a sudden arrival, especially as they took in no daily
paper at home. So the theatre was not to be given up, nor any of the
subsequent plans, except so far as regarded Ethel; and, this agreed,
they started for the scene of action.

They were hardly in the street before they met the ubiquitous Mr.
Ogilvie, saying that Cheviot, Norman's prompter, was aware of the
report, and was guarding him, while he came to escort the ladies,
through what he expressively called
Ethel resolutely
adhered to her father, and her cousin took care of Meta, who had been
clinging in a tiptoe manner to the point of her brother's high elbow,
looking as if the crowd might easily brush off such a little fly,
without his missing her.

Inch by inch, a step at a time, the ladies were landed in a crowd of
their own sex, where Flora bravely pioneered; they emerged on their
benches, shook themselves out, and seated themselves. There was the
swarm of gay ladies around them, and beneath the area, fast being paved
with heads, black, brown, gray, and bald, a surging living sea, where
Meta soon pointed out Dr. May and George; the mere sight of such masses
of people was curious and interesting, reminding Ethel of Cherry Elwood
having once shocked her by saying the Whit-Monday club was the most
beautiful sight in the whole year. And above! that gallery of trampling
undergraduates, and more than trampling! Ethel and Meta could, at first,
have found it in their hearts to be frightened at those thundering
shouts, but the young ladies were usually of opinions so similar,
that the louder grew the cheers, the more they laughed and exulted, so
carried along that no cares could be remembered.

Making a way through the thronged area, behold the procession of
scarlet doctors, advancing through the midst, till the red and black
vice-chancellor sat enthroned in the centre, and the scarlet line became
a semicircle, dividing the flower-garden of ladies from the black mass
below.

Then came the introduction of the honorary doctors, one by one, with
the Latin speech, which Ethel's companions unreasonably required her to
translate to them, while she was using all her ears to catch a word or
two, and her eyes to glimpse at the features of men of note.

By-and-by a youth made his appearance in the rostrum, and a good deal of
Latin ensued, of which Flora hoped Ethel was less tired than she was.
In time, however, Meta saw the spectacles removed, and George looking
straight up, and she drew down her veil, and took hold of Flora's hand,
and Ethel flushed like a hot coal. Nevertheless, all contrived to see
a tall figure, with face much flushed, and hands moving nervously. The
world was tired, and people were departing, so that the first lines were
lost, perhaps a satisfaction to Norman; but his voice soon cleared and
became louder, his eyes lighted, and Ethel knew the "funny state" had
come to his relief -- people's attention was arrested -- there was no more
going away.

It was well that Norman was ignorant of the fears for Harry, for
four lines had been added since Ethel had seen the poem, saying how
self-sacrifice sent forth the sailor-boy from home, to the lone watch,
the wave and storm, his spirit rising high, ere manhood braced his form.

Applause did not come where Ethel had expected it, and, at first,
there was silence at the close, but suddenly the acclamations rose with
deafening loudness, though hardly what greets some poems with more to
catch the popular ear.

Ethel's great excitement was over, and presently she found herself
outside of the theatre, a shower falling, and an umbrella held over
her by Mr. Ogilvie, who was asking her if it was not admirable, and
declaring the poem might rank with Heber's 'Palestine', or Milman's
'Apollo'.

They were bound for a great luncheon at one of the colleges, where Ethel
might survey the Principal with whom Miss Rich had corresponded.
Mr. Ogilvie sat next to her, told her all the names, and quizzed the
dignitaries, but she had a sense of depression, and did not wish to
enter into the usual strain of banter. He dropped his lively tone,
and drew her out about Harry, till she was telling eagerly of her dear
sailor brother, and found him so sympathising and considerate, that she
did not like him less; though she felt her intercourse with him a sort
of intoxication, that would only make it the worse for her by-and-by.

During that whole luncheon, and their walk through the gardens, where
there was a beautiful horticultural show, something was always prompting
her to say, while in this quasi-privacy, that she was on the eve of
departure, but she kept her resolution against it -- she thought it would
have been an unwarrantable experiment. When they returned to their inn
they found Norman looking fagged, but relieved, half asleep on the sofa,
with a novel in his hand. He roused himself as they came in, and, to
avoid any compliments on his own performance, began
said Dr. May
Norman started up crying
said Dr. May
and he showed his son the paragraph, which Norman read as a
death warrant; the colour ebbed from his lips and cheeks; he trembled so
that he was obliged to sit down, and, without speaking, he kept his eyes
fixed on the words
said Dr. May
And Meta added that, at luncheon, she had been seated next to one of the
honorary doctors -- a naval captain -- who had been making discoveries in
the South Sea, and that he had scouted the notion of harm befalling
the Alcestis, and given all manner of reassuring suppositions as to her
detention, adding besides, that no one believed the Australian paper
whence the report was taken. He had seen the Alcestis, knew Captain
Gordon, and spoke of him as one of the safest people in the world. Had
his acquaintance extended to lieutenants and midshipmen, it would have
been perfect; as it was, the tidings brought back the blood to Norman's
cheek, and the light to his eye
was Norman's question
said Ethel
Norman was bent on returning, but his father and Flora would not hear of
it. Flora could not spare him, and Dr. May was afraid of the effect of
anxiety on nerves and spirits so sensitive. While this was going on,
Mr. Ogilvie looked at Ethel in consternation, and said
He looked down -- Ethel had the resolution to walk away. Flora could not
give up the ball, and Meta found that she must go; but both the Normans
spent a quiet evening with Dr. May and Ethel. Norman May had a bad
headache, which he was allowed to have justly earned; Dr. May was very
happy reviving all his Scottish recollections, and talking to young
Ogilvie about Edinburgh. Once, there was a private consultation. Ethel
was provoked and ashamed at the throbs that it would excite. What! on a
week's acquaintance?

When alone with her father, she began to nerve herself for something
heroic, and great was her shame when she heard only of her cousin's kind
consideration for her brother, whom he wished to take home with him, and
thence to see the Highlands, so as to divert his anxiety for Harry, as
well as to call him off from the studies with which he had this term
overworked himself even more than usual. Dr. May had given most grateful
consent, and he spoke highly in praise of the youth; but there was no
more to come, and Ethel could have beaten herself for the moment of
anticipation.

Meta came home, apologising for wakening Ethel; but Ethel had not been
asleep. The ball had not, it seemed, been as charming to her as most
events were, and Ethel heard a sigh as the little lady lay down in her
bed.

Late as it was when she went to rest, Meta rose to see the travellers
off; she sent hosts of messages to her father, and wished she might go
with them. George and Flora were not visible, and Dr. May was leaving
messages for them, and for Norman, in her charge, when the two Balliol
men walked in.

Ethel had hoped it was over, yet she could not be sorry that the two
youths escorted them to the station, and, as Ethel was placed in
the carriage, she believed that she heard something of never
forgetting -- happiest week -- but in the civilities which the other
occupant of the carriage was offering for the accommodation of their
lesser luggage, she lost the exact words, and the last she heard were
True to the kindred points of Heaven and home.
                                             WORDSWORTH.


Etheldred's dream was over. She had wakened to the inside of a
Great Western carriage, her father beside her, and opposite a thin,
foreign-looking gentleman. Her father, to whom her life was to be
devoted! She looked at his profile, defined against the window, and did
not repent. In a sort of impulse to do something for him, she took his
hat from his hand, and was going to dispose of it in the roof, when he
turned, smiling his thanks, but saying
The stranger at that moment sprang to his feet, exclaiming
cried Dr. May, in a voice of equal
amazement and joy, holding out his hand, which was grasped and wrung
with a force that made Ethel shrink for the poor maimed arm
was the immediate question. Three
technical words were spoken in a matter-of-fact way, as Dr. May replaced
his hand in his bosom, and then, with an eager smile, said
Ethel had indeed, and gave her hand cordially, surprised by the bow and
air of deferential politeness with which it was received, like a favour,
while Dr. Spencer asked her whether she had been staying in Oxford
said Dr. May joyously
said Dr. May deprecatingly
said Dr. May, looking at his friend's
milk-white locks
added he, turning to Ethel
said Ethel, with a bright look
continued Dr. May
as the train showed signs of a halt
said Dr. May, laying his hand on his arm
said he, looking tempted,
but irresolute
said Ethel eagerly
He looked his courteous thanks, and soon was with them en-route for
Stoneborough.

Ethel's thoughts were diverted from all she had left at Oxford. She
could not but watch those two old friends. She knew enough of the
traveller to enter into her father's happiness, and to have no fears is
of another Sir Matthew.

They had been together at Stoneborough, at Cambridge, at Paris, at
Edinburgh, always linked in the closest friendship; but, by Dr. May's
own account, his friend had been the diligent one of the pair, a bright
compound of principle and spirit, and highly distinguished in all his
studies, and Dr. May's model of perfection. Their paths had since lain
far apart, and they had not seen each other since, twenty-six years ago,
they had parted in London -- the one to settle at his native town, while
the other accepted a situation as travelling physician. On his return,
he had almost sacrificed his life, by self-devoted attendance on a
fever-stricken emigrant-ship. He had afterwards received an appointment
in India, and there the correspondence had died away, and Dr. May had
lost traces of him, only knowing that, in a visitation of cholera, he
had again acted with the same carelessness of his own life, and a
severe illness, which had broken up his health, had occasioned him to
relinquish his post.

It now appeared that he had thought himself coming home ever since.
He had gone to recruit in the Himalayas, and had become engrossed in
scientific observations on their altitudes, as well as investigations in
natural history. Going to Calcutta, he had fallen in with a party about
to explore the Asiatic islands and he had accompanied them, as well
as going on an expedition into the interior of Australia. He had been
employed in various sanitary arrangements there and in India, and
had finally worked his way slowly home, overland, visiting Egypt and
Palestine, and refreshing his memory with every Italian, German, or
French Cathedral, or work of art, that had delighted him in early days.

He was a slight small man, much sunburned, nearly bald, and his hair
snowy, but his eyes were beautiful, very dark, soft, and smiling,
and yet their gaze peculiarly keen and steady, as if ready for any
emergency, and his whole frame was full of alertness and vigour. His
voice was clear and sweet, and his manner most refined and polished,
indeed, his courtesy to Ethel, whenever there was a change of carriage,
was so exemplary, that she understood it as the effect on a chivalrous
mind, of living where a lady was a rare and precious article. It
frightened Ethel a little at first, but, before the end of the journey,
she had already begun to feel towards him like an old friend -- one of
those inheritances who are so much valued and loved, like a sort of
uncles-in-friendship. She had an especial grateful honour for the
delicate tact which asked no questions, as she saw his eye often falling
anxiously on her father's left hand, where the wedding ring shone upon
the little finger.

There was talk enough upon his travels, on public changes, and on
old friends; but, after those first few words, home had never been
mentioned.

When, at five o'clock, the engine blew its whistle, at the old familiar
station, Dr. May had scarcely put his head out before Adams hastened up
to him with a note
said Dr May hastily
He was driven off at speed, and Ethel proposed to walk home. Dr Spencer
gave her his arm, and was silent, but presently said, in a low, anxious
voice
said Ethel looking straight before her
repeated Dr Spencer earnestly
said Ethel, speaking shortly, and
abruptly. If she was to say it at all, she could not do so otherwise.

He was dreadfully shocked -- she knew it by the shudder of his arm, and a
tight suppressed groan. He did not speak, and Ethel, as if a relief from
the silence must be made, said what was not very consoling, and equally
blunt
He did not seem to hear, but walked on, as in a dream, where Ethel
guided him, and she would not interrupt him again.

They had just passed Mr Bramshaw's office, when a voice was heard
behind, calling
and Edward Anderson, now
articled to Mr. Bramshaw, burst out, pen in hand, and looking shabby and
inky
he said breathlessly
said Ethel
said Edward
said Ethel kindly
said Edward; and, shaking hands, he went back to his
high stool, Ethel feeling that he deserved the pains that Norman
had taken to spare and befriend him. She spoke to her companion in
explanation
exclaimed poor Dr. Spencer, almost overpowered
said Ethel, not sorry that they had arrived at the
back entrance of the shrubbery
said he, standing still, as soon as they had
passed into the garden
he sighed, then recollecting
himself
she said
and there he broke off, paused for a minute, then
collecting himself, seemed resolutely to turn away from the subject, and
said, walking on
At that moment, a little shrill voice broke out in remonstrance among
the laurels
said Dr. Spencer, looking at Ethel, and the
next two steps brought them in view of the play-place in the laurels,
where Aubrey lay on the ground, feigning sleep, but keeping a watchful
eye over Blanche, who was dropping something into the holes of inverted
flower-pots, Gertrude dancing about in a way that seemed to have called
for the reproof of the more earnest actors
screamed the children, with one voice, and, while the
two girls stood in shyness at her companion, Aubrey had made a dart at
her neck, and hung upon her, arms, legs, body, and all, like a wild cat
Blanche did so demurely, and asked where was papa
said Aubrey
said Dr. Spencer, laying his hand on
Aubrey's head
was the answer
exclaimed Dr. Spencer, while
Aubrey stood abashed at so mysterious an accusation
exclaimed Blanche, seizing on Ethel, and whispering
said Ethel, smiling, as Dr. Spencer
evidently heard
said Aubrey indignantly, looking at the
gray-haired man
said Ethel to Dr. Spencer
he said, laughing heartily
said the innocent, daisy-faced Gertrude; and Ethel
hastened towards the house, glad of the permission granted by his true
good-breeding.

There was a shriek of welcome from Mary, who sat working beside
Margaret. Ethel was certain that no evil tidings had come to her eldest
sister, so joyous was her exclamation of wonder and rebuke to her
home-sick Ethel
said Ethel hastily
Margaret flushed with such a pink, that Ethel resolved never to
set her guessing again, and hurried to explain; and having heard that
all was well, and taken her housekeeping measures, she proceeded to
fetch the guest; but Mary, who had been unusually silent all this time,
ran after her, and checked her
she said
said Ethel
Poor Mary's
full lip swelled, and her eyes swam, ready to laugh or weep, in full
faith in her sister's answer.

Ethel told of Meta's captain, and the smile predominated, and settled
down into Mary's usual broad beamy look, like a benignant rising sun
on the sign of an inn, as Ethel praised her warmly for a fortitude and
consideration of which she had not thought her capable.

Dr. Spencer was discovered full in the midst of the comedy of the forty
thieves, alternating, as required, between the robber-captain and the
ass, and the children in perfect ecstasies with him.

They all followed in his train to the drawing-room, and were so
clamorous, that he could have no conversation with Margaret. He
certainly made them so, but Ethel, remembering what a blow her
disclosures had been, thought it would be only a kindness to send Aubrey
to show him to his room, where he might have some peace.

She was not sorry to be very busy, so as to have little time to reply
to the questions on the doings at Oxford, and the cause of her sudden
return; and yet it would have been a comfort to be able to sit down
to understand herself, and recall her confused thoughts. But solitary
reflection was a thing only to be hoped for in that house in bed, and
Ethel was obliged to run up and down, and attend to everybody, under
an undefined sense that she had come home to a dull, anxious world of
turmoil.

Margaret seemed to guess nothing, that was one comfort; she evidently
thought that her return was fully accounted for by the fascination of
her papa's presence in a strange place. She gave Ethel no credit for
the sacrifice, naturally supposing that she could not enjoy herself
away from home. Ethel did not know whether to be glad or not; she was
relieved, but it was flat. As to Norman Ogilvie, one or two inquiries
whether she liked him, and if Norman were going to Scotland with him,
were all that passed, and it was very provoking to be made so hot and
conscious by them.

She could not begin to dress till late, and while she was unpacking, she
heard her father come home, among the children's loud welcomes, and
go to the drawing-room. He presently knocked at the door between their
rooms
he said
and she told what had passed
Nevertheless, Ethel saw that he could not trust himself to broach the
subject to Margaret
he added
suddenly
continued Dr. May incoherently
asked Ethel bewildered
said Ethel, beginning to collect his meaning
said Ethel
said Ethel
Ethel told, and the tears filled her father's eyes
continued Dr. May
Ethel never knew how to deal with these occasional bursts of grief, but
she said that she thought Dr. Spencer was very much pleased to have met
with him, and delighted with the children
said Dr. May, with his hand on Ethel's
shoulder.

So they went downstairs, and found Mary making tea; and Margaret,
fearing Dr. Spencer was overwhelmed with his young admirers -- for Aubrey
and Gertrude were one on each knee, and Blanche standing beside him,
inflicting on him a catalogue of the names and ages of all the eleven
said Dr. May
said Aubrey positively; for, as his father added
Aubrey privately went to Ethel, to ask her if this were possible; and
she had to reassure him, by telling him that they were
It was fun with a much deeper current though; for Dr. Spencer was
saying, with a smile, between gratification and sadness
said Dr. May
Aubrey had recovered sufficiently to observe to Blanche
which, being overheard and repeated, led to
the information that he was Ethel's pupil, whereupon Dr. Spencer began
to inquire after the school, and to exclaim at his friend for having
deserted it in the person of Tom. Dr. May looked convicted, but said it
was all Norman's fault; and Dr. Spencer, shaking his head at Blanche,
opined that the young gentleman was a great innovater, and that he was
sure he was at the bottom of the pulling down the Market Cross, and the
stopping up Randall's Alley -- iniquities of the
of which
she already had made him aware
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Dr. May
and he turned with a start of astonishment, and went into
a fit of laughing, re-echoed by all the young ones, who were especially
tickled by hearing, from another, the abbreviation that had, hitherto,
only lived in the favourite expletive
said Dr. May
His friend laughed the more, and they betook themselves to the College
stories, of which the quotation from Dogberry seemed to have reminded
them.

There was something curious and affecting in their manner to each other.
Often it was the easy bantering familiarity of the two youths they had
once been together, with somewhat of elder brotherhood on Dr. Spencer's
side -- and of looking up on Dr. May's -- and just as they had recurred to
these terms, some allusion would bring back to Dr. Spencer, that the
heedless, high-spirited
whom he had always had much ado to keep
out of scrapes, was a householder, a man of weight and influence; a
light which would at first strike him as most ludicrous, and then mirth
would end in a sigh, for there was yet another aspect! After having
thought of him so long as the happy husband of Margaret Mackenzie, he
found her place vacant, and the trace of deep grief apparent on the
countenance, once so gay -- the oppression of anxiety marked on the brow,
formerly so joyous, the merriment almost more touching than gravity
would have been, for the former nature seemed rather shattered than
altered. In merging towards this side, there was a tender respect in
Dr. Spencer's manner that was most beautiful, though this evening such
subjects were scrupulously kept at the utmost distance, by the constant
interchange of new and old jokes and stories.

Only when bed-time had come, and Margaret had been carried off -- did a
silence fall on the two friends, unbroken till Dr. May rose and proposed
going upstairs. When he gave his hand to wish good-night, Dr. Spencer
held it this time most carefully, and said
said his host
said Dr.
May, his voice low with emotion
he concluded. His friend had turned aside and hidden
his face with his hands, then looked up for a moment
he said briefly
was Dr. May's first answer
There was a silence again, ending in Dr. May's saying
They discussed the nature of the injury: Dr. Spencer could not feel
otherwise than that it was a very hopeless matter. Her father owned
that he had thought so from the first, and had wondered at Sir Matthew
Fleet's opinion. His subdued tone of patience and resignation, struck
his guest above all, as changed from what he had once been
he said, when they parted at his room
door
simply answered Dr. May
Ethel overcame the difficulty of giving the account of the newspaper
alarm with tolerable success, by putting the story of Meta's
conversation foremost. Margaret did not take it to heart as much as she
had feared, nor did she appear to dwell on it afterwards. The truth was
perhaps that Dr. Spencer's visit was to every one more of an excitement
and amusement than it was to Ethel. Not that she did not like him
extremely, but after such a week as she had been spending, the
home-world seemed rather stale and unprofitable.

Miss Bracy relapsed into a state of
imagining that Ethel had
distrusted her capabilities, and therefore returned; or as Ethel herself
sometimes feared, there might be irritability in her own manner that
gave cause of annoyance. The children were inclined to be riotous with
their new friend, who made much of them continually, and especially
patronised Aubrey; Mary was proud of showing how much she had learned
to do for Margaret in her sister's absence; Dr. May was so much taken up
with his friend, that Ethel saw less of him than usual, and she began to
believe that it had been all a mistake that every one was so dependent
on her, for, in fact, they did much better without her.

Meantime, she heard of the gaieties which the others were enjoying, and
she could not feel heroic when they regretted her. At the end of a week,
Meta Rivers was escorted home from Warwick by two servants, and came
to Stoneborough, giving a lively description of all the concluding
pleasures, but declaring that Ethel's departure had taken away the zest
of the whole, and Mr. Ogilvie had been very disconsolate. Margaret
had not been prepared to hear that Mr. Ogilvie had been so constant a
companion, and was struck by finding that Ethel had passed over one
who had evidently been so great an ingredient in the delights of the
expedition. Meta had, however observed nothing -- she was a great deal too
simple and too much engrossed for such notions to have crossed her mind;
but Margaret inferred something, and hoped to learn more when she should
see Flora. This would not be immediately. George and his wife were gone
to London, and thence intended to pay a round of visits; and Norman had
accompanied his namesake to Glenbracken.

Ethel fought hard with her own petulance and sense of tedium at home,
which was, as she felt, particularly uncalled for at present; when Dr.
Spencer was enlivening them so much. He was never in the way, he was
always either busy in the dining-room in the morning with books and
papers, or wandering about his old school-boy haunts in the town, or
taking Adam's place, and driving out Dr. May, or sometimes joining the
children in a walk, to their supreme delight. His sketches, for he
drew most beautifully, were an endless pleasure to Margaret, with his
explanations of them -- she even tried to sit up to copy them, and he
began to teach Blanche to draw. The evenings, when there was certain to
be some entertaining talk going on between the two doctors, were very
charming, and Margaret seemed quite revived by seeing her father so
happy with his friend. Ethel knew she ought to be happy also, and if
attention could make her so, she had it, for kind and courteous as Dr.
Spencer was to all, she seemed to have a double charm for him. It was
as if he found united in her the quaint brusquerie, that he had loved
in her father, with somewhat of her mother; for though Ethel had less
personal resemblance to Mrs. May than any other of the family, Dr.
Spencer transferred to her much of the chivalrous distant devotion, with
which he had regarded her mother. Ethel was very little conscious of it,
but he was certainly her sworn knight, and there was an eagerness in his
manner of performing every little service for her, a deference in his
way of listening to her, over and above his ordinary polish of manner.

Ethel lighted up, and enjoyed herself when talking was going
on -- her periods of ennui were when she had to set about any home
employment -- when Aubrey's lessons did not go well -- when she wanted to
speak to her father, and could not catch him; and even when she had to
go to Cocksmoor.

She did not seem to make any progress there -- the room was very full,
and very close, the children were dull, and she began to believe she was
doing no good -- it was all a weariness. But she was so heartily ashamed
of her feelings, that she worked the more vehemently for them, and the
utmost show that they outwardly made was, that Margaret thought her less
vivacious than her wont, and she was a little too peremptory at times
with Mary and Blanche. She had so much disliked the display that Flora
had made about Cocksmoor, that she had imposed total silence on it
upon her younger sisters, and Dr. Spencer had spent a fortnight at
Stoneborough without being aware of their occupation; when there
occurred such an extremely sultry day, that Margaret remonstrated
with Ethel on her intention of broiling herself and Mary by walking to
Cocksmoor, when the quicksilver stood at 80deg in the shade.

Ethel was much inclined to stay at home, but she did not know whether
this was from heat or from idleness, and her fretted spirits took the
turn of determination -- so she posted off at a galloping pace, that her
brothers called her
and Mary panted by her side,
humbly petitioning for the plantation path, when she answered
The school-room was unusually full, all the haymaking mothers made it
serve as an infant school, and though as much window was opened as there
could be, the effect was not coolness. Nevertheless, Ethel sat down and
gathered her class round her, and she had just heard the chapter once
read, when there was a little confusion, a frightened cry of
and before she could rise to her feet -- a flump upon the floor -- poor Mary
had absolutely fainted dead away.

Ethel was much terrified, and very angry with herself; Mary was no light
weight, but Mrs. Elwood coming at their cry, helped Ethel to drag
her into the outer room, where she soon began to recover, and to be
excessively puzzled as to what had happened to her. She said the sea was
roaring, and where was Harry? and then she looked much surprised to
find herself lying on Mrs. Elwood's damp flags -- a circumstance extremely
distressing to Mrs. Elwood, who wanted to carry her upstairs into
Cherry's room, very clean and very white, but with such a sun shining
full into it!

Ethel lavished all care, and reproached herself greatly, though to be
sure nothing had ever been supposed capable of hurting Mary, and Mary
herself protested that nothing at all had ailed her till the children's
voices began to sound funny, and turned into the waves of the sea, and
therewith poor Mary burst into a great flood of tears, and asked whether
Harry would ever come back. The tears did her a great deal of good,
though not so much as the being petted by Ethel, and she soon declared
herself perfectly well; but Ethel could not think of letting her walk
home, and sent off a boy -- who she trusted would not faint -- with a note
to Margaret, desiring her to send the gig, which fortunately was at home
to-day.

Mary had partaken of some of Mrs. Elwood's tea, which, though extremely
bitter, seemed a great cordial, and was sitting, quite revived, in the
arbour at the door, when the gig stopped, and Dr. Spencer walked in
and Mary opened the door. Dr. Spencer looked in, as
Ethel came out, and his face put her in mind of Norman's look
was all he said.

Ethel was soon satisfied that he did not think Mary ill. In fact, he
said fainting was the most natural and justifiable measure, under the
circumstances
he asked
said Mary proudly
said Ethel
said Mary
said Dr. Spencer
said Mary
And Mary, having been voted into the seat of honour and comfort by his
side in the carriage, told her version of Cocksmoor and the Committee;
while Ethel sat up in the little narrow seat behind, severely
reproaching herself for her want of consideration towards one so good
and patient as Mary, who proved to have been suffering far more on
Harry's account than they had guessed, and who was so simple and
thorough-going in doing her duty. This was not being a good elder
sister, and, when they came home, she confessed it, and showed so much
remorse that poor Mary was quite shocked, and cried so bitterly that it
was necessary to quit the subject
said Margaret that night, after they were in bed
said Ethel, resolutely
said Margaret
said Ethel. She was becoming too much ashamed of her fancy
to breathe one word about it, and she had spoken the truth. Pleasure had
spoiled her
she sighed, presently
Margaret was very glad that her thoughts were taking this channel, but
it was not a promising one, for there seemed to be nothing practicable,
present or future. The ground could not be had -- the pig would not get
over the stile -- the old woman could not get home to-night. Cocksmoor
must put up with its present school, and Mary must not be walked to
death.

Or, as Ethel drew her own moral, sacrifice must not be selfish. One
great resolution that has been costly, must not blunt us in the daily
details of life
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, Chapels had
  been Churches, and poor men's cottages, princes' palaces.
                                             MERCHANT OF VENICE
said Dr. Spencer, as the friends sat together in the evening,
after Mary's swoon
said Dr. May carelessly
cried his friend, rather
indignantly
said Dr. May
and, as he heard a sound a little like
he
continued
Dr. Spencer had, in fact, never rested till he had established a mission
in his former remote station; and his brown godson, once a Brahmin,
now an exemplary clergyman, traced his conversion to the friendship and
example of the English physician
said Dr. May
and they both laughed -- the inconsiderate
way was so well delineated
replied Dr. May
said Dr. Spencer, rather sorry for his implied reproach
Two days after, Ethel came down equipped for Cocksmoor. It was as hot as
ever, and Mary was ordered to stay at home, being somewhat pacified by
a promise that she should go again as soon as the weather was fit for
anything but a salamander.

Dr. Spencer was in the hall, with his bamboo, his great Panama hat, and
gray loose coat, for he entirely avoided, except on Sundays, the medical
suit of black. He offered to relieve Ethel of her bag of books
He had them by this time
said she, smiling, however, so as to
show she was glad of such pleasant company
Dr. Spencer promised to do nothing but what was quite reasonable. Ethel
believed that he accompanied her merely because his gallantry would not
suffer her to go unescorted, and she was not sorry, for it was too long
a walk for solitude to be very agreeable, when strange wagoners might be
on the road, though she had never let them be
The walk was as pleasant as a scorching sun would allow, and by the
time they arrived at the scattered cottages, Ethel had been drawn into
explaining many of her Cocksmoor perplexities
he asked
said Ethel
replied Dr. Spencer, stepping
it out
A surmise crossed Ethel. Could he be going to take the work on himself,
but that was too wild a supposition -- she knew he had nothing of his own,
only a moderate pension from the East India Company
he said, coming to the slope of a knoll,
commanding a pretty view of the Abbotstoke woods, clear from houses, and
yet not remote from the hamlet. She agreed that it would do well, and
he kicked up a bit of turf, and pryed into the soil, pronouncing it dry,
and fit for a good foundation. Then he began to step it out, making
a circuit that amazed her, but he said
He would not let her remain in the sun, and she went into school.
She found him, when she came out, sitting in the arbour smoking a
cigar-rather a shock to her feelings, though he threw it away the
instant she appeared, and she excused him for his foreign habits.

In the evening, he brought down a traveller's case of instruments, and
proceeded to draw a beautiful little map of Cocksmoor, where it seemed
that he had taken all his measurements, whilst she was in school. He
ended by an imaginary plan and elevation for the school, with a pretty
oriel window and bell-gable, that made Ethel sigh with delight at the
bare idea.

Next day, he vanished after dinner, but this he often did; he used to
say he must go and have a holiday of smoking -- he could not bear too much
civilised society. He came back for tea, however, and had not sat down
long before he said
was the general and dolorous outcry, and Gertrude laid hold
of him and said he should not go
he said
asked Dr. May
Ethel was too much confounded to speak. Her father was exclaiming on the
shortness of the time
said Dr. Spencer, demonstrating that he should be able
to travel comfortably, and have four days to spare at Vienna -- a journey
which he seemed to think less of, than did Dr. May of going to London.

As to checking him, of that there was no possibility, nor, indeed,
notion, though Ethel did not quite know how to believe in it, nor that
the plan could come to good. Ethel was much better by this time: by her
vigorous efforts, she had recovered her tone of mind and interest in
what was passing; and though now and then Norman's letters, carrying
sentences of remembrance, made her glow a little, she was so steady
to her resolution that she averted all traffic in messages through her
brother's correspondence, and, in that fear, allowed it to lapse into
Margaret's hands more than she had ever done. Indeed, no one greatly
liked writing from home, it was heartless work to say always
and yet they all declared they were not anxious.

Hector Ernescliffe knelt a great while beside Margaret's sofa, on the
first evening of his holidays, and there was a long low-voiced talk
between them. Ethel wished that she had warned him off, for Margaret
looked much more harassed and anxious, after having heard the outpouring
of all that was on his mind.

Dr. Spencer thought her looking worse, when he came, as come he did, on
the appointed day. He had brought Sir Henry Walkinghame's full consent
to the surrender of the land; drawn up in such form as could be acted
upon, and a letter to his man of business. But Nicolson! He was a worse
dragon nearer home, hating all schools, especially hating Dr. May.

However, said Dr. Spencer, in eastern form
What he did with the father of quarrymen was not known, whether he
talked him over, or bought him off -- Margaret hoped the former; Dr. May
feared the latter; the results were certain; Mr. Nicolson had agreed
that the land should be given up.

The triumphant Dr. Spencer sat down to write a statement to be shown to
the college authorities, when they should come to hold their court
he said
said Dr. May
said his friend
said Dr. May
muttered Dr. May
cried Ethel
continued Dr. May
said Ethel
added the children, in chorus
said Margaret,
smiling
said Dr. May.

There was a putting on of hats and bonnets, and the whole party walked
down the garden to inspect the house -- a matter of curiosity to some -- for
it was where the old lady had resided on whom Harry had played so many
tricks, and the subject of many myths hatched between him and George
Larkins.

It was an odd, little narrow slip of a house, four stories, of two rooms
all the way up, each with a large window, with a marked white eyebrow.
Dr. May eagerly pointed out all the conveniences, parlour, museum,
smoking den, while Dr. Spencer listened, and answered doubtfully; and
the children's clamorous anxiety seemed to render him the more silent.

Hector Ernescliffe discovered a jackdaw's nest in the chimney, whereupon
the whole train rushed off to investigate, leaving the two doctors and
Ethel standing together in the empty parlour, Dr. May pressing, Dr.
Spencer raising desultory objections; but so evidently against his own
wishes, that Ethel said
said Dr. May
and he
spoke with emotion
said Dr. May
and he spoke with a
pleading, almost dependent air
said Dr. May
added Ethel
said Dr. May
said Ethel.

He made a sign of assent -- he could do no more, and just then Gertrude
came trotting back, so exceedingly smutty, as to call everybody's
attention. Hector had been shoving Tom half-way up the chimney, in
hopes of reaching the nest; and the consequences of this amateur
chimney-sweeping had been a plentiful bespattering of all the spectators
with soot, that so greatly distressed the young ladies, that Mary and
Blanche had fled away from public view.

Dr. Spencer's first act of possession was to threaten to pull Tom down
by the heels for disturbing his jackdaws, whereupon there was a general
acclamation; and Dr. May began to talk of marauding times, when the
jackdaws in the Minster tower had been harried
said Dr. Spencer, as Tom emerged, blacker than the outraged
jackdaws, and half choked
cried Hector
said Tom, who usually acted the part of esprit
fort to Hector's credulity
said Hector
said Tom
Dr. Spencer did not gainsay it, and proceeded even to show the old
Whichcote spirit, by leading the assault, and promising to take care of
Aubrey, while Ethel retained Gertrude, and her father too; for Dr. May
had such a great inclination to scramble up the ladder after them, that
she, thinking it a dangerous experiment for so helpless an arm, was
obliged to assure him that it would create a sensation among the
gossiphood of Stoneborough, if their physician were seen disporting
himself on the top of the house
said Dr. May, laughing
said Ethel
was the answer
Ethel was only afraid that time was being cruelly wasted; but the best
men, and it is emphatically the best that generally are so -- have the
boy strong enough on one side or other of their natures, to be a great
provocation to womankind; and Dr. Spencer did not rest from his pursuit
till the brood of the jackdaws had been discovered, and two gray-headed
nestlings kidnapped, which were destined to a wicker cage and education.
Little Aubrey was beyond measure proud, and was suggesting all sorts of
outrageous classical names for them, till politely told by Tom that he
would make them as great prigs as himself, and that their names should
be nothing but Jack and Jill
cried Tom,
sententiously turning round to Ethel
said Dr. Spencer.

Tom coloured, as if sorry for his movement, and hastened away to make
himself sufficiently clean to go in quest of a prison for his captives.

Dr. Spencer began to bethink him of the paper that he had been so
eagerly drawing up, and looking at his own begrimed hands, asked Ethel
whether she would have him for a trustee
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said the undaunted doctor
said Ethel, bewildered
said Dr. Spencer, who seemed ready to throw himself into
it with all his might
said Dr. May, who,
having put his friend into the situation, had a mischievous delight in
laughing at him, and watching what he would do
said Ethel
said Dr. Spencer
said Dr. May
So the remaining ladies were divided -- Ethel was to visit Miss Anderson,
Miss Boulder, and Mrs. Ledwich; Dr. Spencer, the rest, and a meeting, if
possible, be appointed for the next day.

Ethel did as she was told, though rather against the grain, and her
short, abrupt manner was excused the more readily, that Dr. Spencer had
been a subject of much mysterious speculation in Stoneborough, and to
gain any intelligence respecting him, was a great object; so that she
was extremely welcome wherever she called.

Mrs. Ledwich promised to come to tea, and instantly prepared to walk
to Miss Rich, and authorise her to send out the notes of summons to the
morrow's meeting. Ethel offered to walk with her, and found Mrs. and
Miss Rich in a flutter, after Dr. Spencer's call; the daughter just
going to put on her bonnet and consult Mrs. Ledwich, and both extremely
enchanted with Dr. Spencer, who
The hour was fixed and the notes sent out, and Ethel met Dr. Spencer at
the garden gate
he said, smiling
said Dr. Spencer
said Ethel
said Dr. Spencer
Mrs. Ledwich came to tea, sparkling with black bugles, and was very
patronising and amiable. Her visits were generally subjects of great
dread, for she talked unceasingly, laid down the law, and overwhelmed
Margaret with remedies; but to-night Dr. Spencer took her in hand. It
was not that he went out of his ordinary self, he was always the same
simple-mannered, polished gentleman; but it was this that told -- she was
evidently somewhat in awe of him -- the refinement kept her in check. She
behaved very quietly all the evening, admired the plans, consented to
everything, and was scarcely Mrs. Ledwich
said Dr. May afterwards
That was all she could extract from him, though he looked very arch. The
Ladies' Committee accepted of their representatives with full consent;
and the indefatigable Dr. Spencer next had to hunt up the fellow
trustee. He finally contrived to collect every one he wanted at
Fordholm, the case was laid before the College -- the College was
propitious, and by four o'clock in the evening, Dr. Spencer laid before
Ethel the promise of the piece of land.

Mary's joy was unbounded, and Ethel blushed, and tried to thank. This
would have been the summit of felicity a year ago, and she was vexed
with herself for feeling that though land and money were both in such
safe hands, she could not care sufficiently to feel the ecstasy the
attainment of her object would once have given to her. Then she would
have been frantic with excitement, and heedless of everything; now she
took it so composedly as to annoy herself
Perhaps it was the less at home, because she had just heard that George
and Flora had accepted an invitation to Glenbracken, but though the zest
of Cocksmoor might be somewhat gone, she called herself to order, and
gave her full attention to all that was planned by her champion.

Never did man plunge into business more thoroughly than he, when he
had once undertaken it. He was one of those men who, from gathering
particulars of every practical matter that comes under their notice, are
able to accomplish well whatever they set their hand to; and building
was not new to him, though his former subjects -- a church and mission
station in India -- bore little remembrance to the present.

He bought a little round dumpling of a white pony, and trotted all over
the country in search of building materials and builders, he discovered
trees in distant timber-yards, he brought home specimens of stone, one
in each pocket, to compare and analyse, he went to London to look at
model schools, he drew plans each more neat and beautiful than the
last, he compared builders' estimates, and wrote letters to the National
Society, so as to be able to begin in the spring.

In the meantime he was settling himself, furnishing his new house with
great precision and taste. He would have no assistance in his choice,
either of servants or furniture, but made numerous journeys of
inspection to Whitford, to Malvern, and to London, and these seemed
to make him the more content with Stoneborough. Sir Matthew Fleet had
evidently chilled him, and as he found his own few remaining relations
uncongenial, he became the more ready to find a resting-place in the
gray old town, the scene of his school life, beside the friend of his
youth, and the children of her, for whose sake he had never sought a
home of his own. Though he now and then talked of seeing America, or
of going back to India, in hopes of assisting his beloved mission at
Poonshedagore, these plans were fast dying away, as he formed habits and
attachments, and perceived the sphere of usefulness open to him.

It was a great step when his packages arrived, and his beautiful Indian
curiosities were arranged, making his drawing-room as pretty a room as
could anywhere be seen; in readiness, as he used to tell Ethel, for a
grand tea-party for all the Ladies' Committee, when he should borrow
her and the best silver teapot to preside. Moreover, he had a chemical
apparatus, a telescope, and microscope, of great power, wherewith he
tried experiments that were the height of felicity to Tom and Ethel,
and much interested their father. He made it his business to have full
occupation for himself, with plans, books, or correspondence, so as not
to be a charge on the hands of the May family, with whom he never spent
an evening without special and earnest invitation.

He gave attendance at the hospital on alternate days, as well as taking
off Dr. May's hands such of his gratuitous patients as were not averse
to quit their old doctor, and could believe in a physician in shepherd's
plaid, and Panama hat. Exceedingly sociable, he soon visited every one
far and wide, and went to every sort of party, from the grand dinners
of the
to the tea-drinkings of the Stoneborough
ladies -- a welcome guest at all, and enjoying each in his own way.
English life was so new to him that he entered into the little
accessories with the zest of a youth; and there seemed to be a curious
change between the two old fellow students, the elder and more staid of
former days having come back with unencumbered freshness to enliven his
friend, just beginning to grow aged under the wear of care and sorrows.

It was very droll to hear Dr. May laughing at Dr. Spencer's histories
of his adventures, and at the new aspects in which his own well-trodden
district appeared to travelled eyes; and not less amusing was Dr.
Spencer's resolute defence of all the nine muses, generally and
individually.

He certainly had no reason to think ill of them. As one woman, they were
led by him, and conformed their opinions. The only seceder was Louisa
Anderson, who had her brother for her oracle; and, indeed, the more
youthful race, to whom Harvey was the glass of fashion, uttered
disrespectful opinions as to the doctor's age, and would not accede to
his being, as Mrs. Ledwich declared
Harvey Anderson had first attempted patronage, then argument, with Dr.
Spencer, but found him equally impervious to both
said Harvey
said Dr. Spencer
Ethel wondered to hear thus lightly disposed of, the powers of argument
that had been thought fairly able to compete with Norman, and which
had taxed him so severely. She did not know how differently abstract
questions appear to a mature mind, confirmed in principle by practice;
and to one young, struggling in self-formation, and more used to
theories than to realities
The heart may ache, but may not burst;
     Heaven will not leave thee, nor forsake.
                                     Christian Year.


Hector and Tom finished their holidays by a morning's shooting at the
Grange, Dr. May promising to meet them, and let them drive him home.

Meta was out when he arrived; and, repairing to the library, he found
Mr. Rivers sitting by a fire, though it was early in September, with the
newspaper before him, but not reading. He looked depressed, and seemed
much disappointed at having heard that George and Flora had accepted
some further invitations in Scotland, and did not intend to return for
another month. Dr. May spoke cheerfully of the hospitality and kindness
they had met, but failed to enliven him, and, as if trying to assign
some cause for his vexation, he lamented over fogs and frosts, and began
to dread an October in Scotland for Flora, almost as if it were the
Arctic regions.

He grew somewhat more animated in praising Flora, and speaking of the
great satisfaction he had in seeing his son married to so admirable a
person. He only wished it could be the same with his daughter
said Dr. May
said Mr. Rivers, sighing
and he
broke off thoughtfully
said Dr.
May, smiling
continued Mr. Rivers
said Dr. May
harped on Mr. Rivers, dwelling on the subject,
as if he wanted to say something
Dr. May would not seem to hear, but he could not prevent himself from
blushing as crimson as if he had been the very Norman, as he answered,
going on with his own speech, as if Mr. Rivers's had been unmade
proceeded Mr. Rivers
thought the doctor
The voices of the two boys were heard in the hall, explaining their
achievements to Meta, and Dr. May took his departure, Hector driving
him, and embarking in a long discourse on his own affairs as if he
had quite forgotten that the doctor was not his father, and going on
emphatically, in spite of the absence of mind now and then betrayed by
his auditor, who, at Dr. Spencer's door, exclaimed
and presently brought out his friend into the
garden, and sat down on the grass, talking low and earnestly over the
disease with which Mr. Rivers had been so long affected; for though Dr.
May could not perceive any positively unfavourable symptom, he had
been rendered vaguely uneasy by the unusual heaviness and depression
of manner. So long did they sit conversing, that Blanche was sent out,
primed with an impertinent message, that two such old doctors ought to
be ashamed of themselves for sitting so late in the dew.

Dr. Spencer was dragged in to drink tea, and the meal had just been
merrily concluded, when the door bell rang, and a message was brought
in
said Dr. May, looking at Dr. Spencer, as if to say, I told you
so, in the first triumph of professional sagacity; but the next moment
exclaiming
he hurried away.

A gloom fell on those who remained, for, besides their sympathy for
Meta, and their liking for her kind old father, there was that one
unacknowledged heartache, which, though in general bravely combated,
lay in wait always ready to prey on them. Hector stole round to sit by
Margaret, and Dr. Spencer muttered
and sent
Tom to fetch some papers lying on his table, whence he read them some
curious accounts that he had just received from his missionary friends
in India.

They were interested, but in a listening mood, that caused a universal
start when the bell again sounded. This time, James reported that the
servant from the Grange said his master was very ill -- he had brought
a letter to post for Mr. George Rivers, and here was a note for Miss
Ethel. It was the only note Ethel had ever received from her father, and
contained these few words
Ethel put her hands to her forehead. It was as if she had been again
plunged into the stunned dream of misery of four years ago, and her
sensation was of equal bewilderment and uselessness; but it was but for
a moment -- the next she was in a state of over-bustle and eagerness. She
wanted to fly about and hasten to help Meta, and could hardly obey the
word and gesture by which Margaret summoned her to her side
said Dr. Spencer, in a soothing
tone
Mary and Miss Bracy prepared Ethel's own goods, which she would
otherwise have forgotten; and Margaret, meanwhile, detained her by her
side, trying to calm and encourage her with gentle words of counsel,
that might hinder her from giving way to the flurry of emotion that had
seized her, and prevent her from thinking herself certain to be useless.

Adams was to drive her thither in the gig, and it presently came to the
door. Dr. Spencer wrapped her up well in cloaks and shawls, and spoke
words of kindly cheer in her ear as she set off. The fresh night air
blew pleasantly on her, the stars glimmered in full glory overhead,
and now and then her eye was caught by the rocket-like track of a
shooting-star. Orion was rising slowly far in the east, and bringing to
her mind the sailor-boy under the southern sky; if, indeed, he were
not where sun and stars no more are the light. It was strange that the
thought came more as soothing than as acute pain; she could bear to
think of him thus in her present frame, as long as she had not to
talk of him. Under those solemn stars, the life everlasting seemed
to overpower the sense of this mortal life, and Ethel's agitation was
calmed away.

The old cedar-tree stood up in stately blackness against the sky, and
the lights in the house glanced behind it. The servants looked rather
surprised to see Ethel, as if she were not expected, and conducted her
to the great drawing-room, which looked the more desolate and solitary,
from the glare of lamplight, falling on the empty seats which Ethel
had lately seen filled with a glad home party. She was looking round,
thinking whether to venture up to Meta's room, and there summon
Bellairs, when Meta came gliding in, and threw her arms round her.
Ethel could not speak, but Meta's voice was more cheerful than she had
expected
said Ethel
said Meta
Meta wound her arms round Ethel, and led her up to her sitting-room,
where a book lay on the table. She said that her father had seemed weary
and torpid, and had sat still until almost their late dinner-hour, when
he seemed to bethink himself of dressing, and had risen. She thought
he walked weakly, and rather tottering, and had run to make him lean on
her, which he did, as far as his own room door. There he had kissed
her, and thanked her, and murmured a word like blessing. She had not,
however, been alarmed, until his servant had come to tell her that he
had another seizure.

Ethel asked whether she had seen Dr. May since he had been with her
father. She had; but Ethel was surprised to find that she had not taken
in the extent of his fears. She had become so far accustomed to these
attacks, that, though anxious and distressed, she did not apprehend more
than a few days' weakness, and her chief longing was to be of use. She
was speaking cheerfully of beginning her nursing to-morrow, and of her
great desire that her papa would allow her to sit up with him, when
there was a slow, reluctant movement of the lock of the door, and the
two girls sprang to their feet, as Dr. May opened it; and Ethel read his
countenance at once.

Not so Meta
cried she
said Dr. May, putting his hand on her shoulder, in
a gentle, detaining manner, that sent a thrill of trembling through her
frame, though she did not otherwise move. She only clasped her hands
together, and looked up into his face. He answered the look
Ethel came near, and put her arm round Meta's waist, as if to strengthen
her, as she stood quite passive and still.

Dr. May seemed to think it best that all should be told; but, though
intently watching Meta, he directed his words to his own daughter
Meta tried to speak, but could not bring out the words, and, with an
imploring look at Ethel, as if to beg her to make them clear for her,
she inarticulately murmured
Meta wrung her clasped hands together in mute anguish. Dr. May signed to
Ethel to guide her back to the sofa, but the movement seemed so far to
rouse her, that she said
said Dr. May; and he whispered to Ethel
He did not even shake hands with Meta, nor wish her good-night, as she
disappeared into her own room.

Bellairs undressed her, and Ethel stood watching, till the young head,
under the load of sorrow, so new to it, was laid on the pillow. Bellairs
asked her if she would have a light
said Meta. Ethel
went back to the sitting-room, where her father was standing at the
window, looking out into the night. He turned as she came in, folded her
in his arms, and kissed her forehead
he asked
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Dr. May
said Dr. May
Ethel, who scarcely knew what it was to be alone, looked as if she did
not understand
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Dr. May
Dr. May again threw his arm round her, and looked into her face. He felt
that he had rather have her, such as she was, than anybody else; and,
together, they sat down, and talked of what was to be done, and what
was best for Meta, and of the solemnity of being in the house of death.
Ethel felt and showed it so much, in her subdued, awe-struck manner,
that her father felt checked whenever he was about to return to his
ordinary manner, familiarised, as he necessarily was, with the like
scenes. It drew him back to the thought of their own trouble, and their
conversation recurred to those days, so that each gained a more full
understanding of the other, and they at length separated, certainly with
the more peaceful and soft feelings for being in the abode of mourning.

Bellairs promised to call Ethel, to be with her young lady as early as
might be, reporting that she was sound asleep. And sleep continued to
shield her till past her usual hour, so that Ethel was up, and had been
with Dr. May, before she was summoned to her, and then she found her
half dressed, and hastening that she might not make Dr. May late for
breakfast, and in going to his patients. There was an elasticity in the
happily constituted young mind that could not be entirely struck down,
nor deprived of power of taking thought for others. Yet her eyes looked
wandering, and unlike themselves, and her words, now and then, faltered,
as if she was not sure what she was doing or saying. Ethel told her not
to mind -- Dr. Spencer would take care of the patients; but she did not
seem to recollect, at first, who Dr. Spencer was, nor to care for being
reminded.

Breakfast was laid out in the little sitting-room. Ethel wanted to take
the trouble off her hands, but she would not let her. She sat behind her
urn, and asked about tea or coffee, quite accurately, in a low, subdued
voice, that nearly overcame Dr. May. When the meal was over, and she had
rung the bell, and risen up, as if to her daily work, she turned
round, with that piteous, perplexed air, and stood for a moment, as if
confused
said Ethel
said Dr. May
Meta came closer to him, and murmured
The breakfast things had, by this time, been taken away, and Meta,
looking to see that the door had shut for the last time, said, in a low
voice
Dr. May drew her down to sit on the sofa beside him, and, in his soft,
sweet voice, told her all that she wished to learn of her father's last
hours, and was glad to see showers of quiet, wholesome tears drop freely
down, but without violence, and she scarcely attempted to speak. There
was a pause at the end, and then she said gently
And she rose up, and went back to her room
said Dr. May, much moved
said Ethel
said Ethel
Dr. May was right; Meta presently returned to them, in the same gentle
subdued sadness, enfolding her, indeed, as a flower weighed down by
mist, but not crushing nor taking away her powers. It was as if she were
truly upheld; and thankful to her friends as she was, she did not throw
herself on them in utter dependence or self-abandonment.

She wrote needful letters, shedding many tears over them, and often
obliged to leave off to give the blinding weeping its course, but
refusing to impose any unnecessary task upon Dr. May's lame arm. All
that was right, she strove to do; she saw Mr. Charles Wilmot, and
was refreshed by his reading to her; and when Dr. May desired it, she
submissively put on her bonnet, and took several turns with Ethel in the
shrubbery, though it made her cry heartily to look into the downstairs
rooms. And she lay on the sofa at last, owning herself strangely tired,
she did not know why, and glad that Ethel should read to her. By and by,
she went to dress for the evening, and came back, full of the tidings
that one of the children in the village had been badly burned. It
occupied her very much -- she made Ethel promise to go and see about her
to-morrow, and sent Bellairs at once with every comfort that she could
devise.

On the whole, those two days were to Ethel a peaceful and comfortable
time. She saw more than usual of her father, and had such conversations
with him as were seldom practicable at home, and that chimed in with the
unavowed care which hung on their minds; while Meta was a most sweet and
loving charge, without being a burden, and often saying such beautiful
things in her affectionate resignation, that Ethel could only admire
and lay them up in her mind. Dr. May went backwards and forwards, and
brought good accounts of Margaret and fond messages; he slept at the
Grange each night, and Meta used to sit in the corner of the sofa and
work, or not, as best suited her, while she listened to his talk with
Ethel, and now and then herself joined.

George Rivers's absence was a serious inconvenience in all arrangements;
but his sister dreaded his grief as much as she wished for his return;
and often were the posts and the journeys reckoned over, without a
satisfactory conclusion, as to when he could arrive from so remote a
part of Scotland.

At last, as the two girls had finished their early dinner, the butler
brought in word that Mr. Norman May was there. Meta at once begged that
he would come in, and Ethel went into the hall to meet him. He looked
very wan, with the dark rings round his eyes a deeper purple than ever,
and he could hardly find utterance to ask
said Ethel warmly; but no more, for
Meta herself had come to the dining-room door, and was holding out her
hand. Norman took it in both his, but could not speak; Meta's own soft
voice was the first
Poor Norman quite gave way, and Meta was the one to speak gentle words
of soothing
she said
Norman made a great effort to recover himself. Ethel asked for Flora and
George. It appeared that they had been on an excursion when the first
letter arrived at Glenbracken, and thus had received both together in
the evening, on their return. George had been greatly overcome, and they
had wished to set off instantly; but Lady Glenbracken would not hear
of Flora's travelling night and day, and it had at length been arranged
that Norman Ogilvie should drive Norman across the country that evening,
to catch the mail for Edinburgh, and he had been on the road ever since.
George was following with his wife more slowly, and would be at home
to-morrow evening. Meantime, he sent full authority to his father-in-law
to make arrangements.

Ethel went to see the burned child, leaving Meta to take her walk in the
garden under Norman's charge. He waited on her with a sort of distant
reverence for a form of grief, so unlike what he had dreaded for
her, when the first shock of the tidings had brought back to him the
shattered bewildered feelings to which he dared not recur.

To dwell on the details was, to her, a comfort, knowing his sympathy and
the affection there had been between him and her father; nor had they
parted in such absolute brightness, as to make them unprepared for such
a meeting as the present. The cloud of suspense was brooding lower and
lower over the May family, and the need of faith and submission was as
great with them as with the young orphan herself. Norman said little,
but that little was so deep and fervent, that after a time Meta could
not help saying, when Ethel was seen in the distance, and their talk was
nearly over
he answered. Ethel came up, and
Dr. May also, in good time for the post. He was obliged to become very
busy, using Norman for his secretary, till he saw his son's eyes so
heavy, that he remembered the two nights that he had been up, and
ordered him to go home and go to bed as soon as tea was over
he added, recollecting himself
and he did not relent, though Norman looked
disappointed.

Meta had already expressed her belief that her father would be buried
at the suburban church, where lay her mother; and Dr. May, having been
desired to seek out the will and open it, found it was so; and fixed
the day and hour with Meta, who was as submissive and reasonable as
possible, though much grieved that he thought she could not be present.

Ethel, after going with Meta to her room at night, returned as usual to
talk matters over with him, and again say how good Meta was
said Ethel
said the doctor thoughtfully
said the doctor
said Dr. May; and then, as if he could not help it,
told Ethel what Mr. Rivers had said of his wishes with regard to his
daughter. Ethel blushed and smiled, and looked so much touched and
delighted, that he grew alarmed and said
said Ethel, her tone one of astonishment, while his
had been almost of objection
continued Dr. May complacently
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Ethel
But, turning away from the subject
said Ethel
said Dr. May hastily
said Ethel
Ethel felt confident that Flora would be very kind to her little
sister-in-law, and yet one of those gleams of doubt crossed her, whether
Flora would not be somewhat jealous of her own authority.

Late the next evening, the carriage drove to the door, and George and
Flora appeared in the hall. Their sisters went out to meet them, and
George folded Meta in his arms, and kissing her again and again, called
her his poor dear little sister, and wept bitterly, and even violently.
Flora stood beside Ethel, and said, in a low voice, that poor George
felt it dreadfully; and then came forward, touched him gently, and told
him that he must not overset Meta; and, drawing her from him, kissed
her, and said what a grievous time this had been for her, and how sorry
they had been to leave her so long, but they knew she was in the best
hands
said Meta
added Flora
thought Ethel
However, Meta did not seem so to feel it -- she replied by caresses, and
turned again to her brother. Poor George was by far the most struck down
of all the mourners, and his whole demeanour gave his new relations
a much warmer feeling towards him than they could ever have hoped to
entertain. His gentle refined father had softly impressed his duller
nature; and his want of attention and many extravagances came back upon
him acutely now, in his changed home. He could hardly bear to look at
his little orphan sister, and lavished every mark of fondness upon her;
nor could he endure to sit at the bottom of his table; but when they had
gone in to dinner, he turned away from the chair and hid his face. He
was almost like a child in his want of self-restraint; and with all Dr.
May's kind soothing manner, he could not bring him to attend to any of
the necessary questions as to arrangements, and was obliged to refer to
Flora, whose composed good sense was never at fault.

Ethel was surprised to find that it would be a great distress to Meta
to part with her until the funeral was over, though she would hardly
express a wish lest Ethel should be needed at home. As soon as Flora
perceived this, she begged her sister to stay, and again Ethel felt
unpleasantly that Meta might have seen, if she had chosen, that Flora
took the invitation upon herself.

So, while Dr. May, with George, Norman, and Tom, went to London, she
remained, though not exactly knowing what good she was doing, unless by
making the numbers rather less scanty; but both sisters declared her to
be the greatest comfort possible; and when Meta shut herself up in her
own room, where she had long learned to seek strength in still communing
with her own heart, Flora seemed to find it a relief to call her sister
to hers, and talk over ordinary subjects, in a tone that struck on
Ethel's ear as a little incongruous -- but then Flora had not been here
from the first, and the impression could not be as strong. She was very
kind, and her manner, when with others, was perfect, from its complete
absence of affectation; but, alone with Ethel, there was a little
complacency sometimes betrayed, and some curiosity whether her father
had read the will. Ethel allowed what she had heard of the contents to
be extracted from her, and it certainly did not diminish Flora's secret
satisfaction in being 'somebody'.

She told the whole history of her visits; first, how cordial Lady
Leonora Langdale had been, and then, how happy she had been at
Glenbracken. The old Lord and Lady, and Marjorie, all equally charming
in their various ways; and Norman Ogilvie so good a son, and so highly
thought of in his own country
continued Flora, seeking in her
dressing-case
It was one of the round Bruce brooches, of dark pebble, with a silver
fern-leaf lying across it, the dots of small Cairngorm stones
continued Flora.

Ethel twisted it about in her fingers, and said
said Flora,
smiling
Ethel sighed. She felt as if her black dress ought, perhaps, to be worn
for a nearer cause. She had a great desire to keep that Glenbracken
brooch; and surely it could not be wrong. To refuse it would be much
worse, and would only lead to Flora's keeping it, and not caring for it
said Ethel.

Flora was checked a little, and sat down to write to Marjorie Ogilvie
she asked presently
said Ethel impatiently
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Flora, laughing, more than she
would have liked to be seen, but recalled by her sister's look. Ethel
was sorry at once
said Flora thoughtfully.

Ethel carried the brooch to her own room, and tried to keep herself
from speculating what had been Mr. Ogllvie's views in procuring it, and
whether he remembered showing her, at Woodstock, which sort of fern was
his badge, and how she had abstained from preserving the piece shut up
in her guide-book.

Meta's patient sorrow was the best remedy for proneness to such musings.
How happy poor little Meta had been! The three sisters sat together that
long day, and Ethel read to the others, and by and by went to walk in
the garden with them, till, as Flora was going in, Meta asked
Flora could see no reason against it, and Meta and Ethel left the
garden, and traversed the green park, in its quiet home beauty, not
talking much, except that Meta said
said Ethel
said Meta
The two girls said no more, and came to the cottage, where so much
gratitude was expressed at seeing Miss Rivers, that it was almost too
much for her. She left Ethel to talk, and only said a few soft little
words to her sick scholar, who seemed to want her voice and smile to
convince her that the small mournful face, under all that black crape,
belonged to her own dear bright teacher
said Meta, as they went back
said Ethel
said Meta
she said
at last, with the tears rising
said Ethel
said Meta musingly
said Ethel
said Meta reverently
said Ethel, almost rebuked for the first thought, namely, that it
was because Meta was so very good
said Meta
repeated Ethel
said Meta
said Ethel
said Ethel,
regretting the words before they were out of her mouth
said Meta
and Meta's bright smile shone out, with the pleasure of a fresh
and loving service.

Ethel understood the force of her father's words, that it was a brave,
vigorous spirit.

Dr. May came back with George, and stayed to dinner, after which he
talked over business with Flora, whose sagacity continually amazed
him, and who undertook to make her husband understand, and do what was
needed.

Meta meanwhile cross-questioned her brother on the pretty village by the
Thames, of which she had a fond, childish remembrance, and heard from
him of the numerous kind messages from all her relations. There were
various invitations, but George repeated them unwillingly
he said
said Flora, looking up
Dr. May thought it a great relief that Meta had a home with Flora, for,
as he said to Ethel as they went home together
said Ethel
said Dr. May
Pausing, he looked from the window, then signed to Ethel to do
the same -- Orion glittered in the darkness
said Dr. May
Shall I sit alone in my chamber,
       And set the chairs by the wall,
     While you sit with lords and princes,
       Yet have not a thought at all?

     Shall I sit alone in my chamber,
       And duly the table lay,
     Whilst you stand up in the diet,
       And have not a word to say?-- Old Danish Ballad
exclaimed Margaret, as her brother
opened the door, bringing in with him the crisp breath of December
but the brother and sister both read on each
other's features that the additional three months of suspense had told.
There were traces of toil and study on Norman's brow; the sunken look
about his eyes, and the dejected outline of his cheek, Margaret knew
betokened discouragement; and though her mild serenity was not changed,
she was almost transparently thin and pale. They had long ago left off
asking whether there were tidings, and seldom was the subject adverted
to, though the whole family seemed to be living beneath a dark shadow
he next asked
said Norman, smiling
exclaimed Norman
Norman was soon at Abbotstoke; and, as he drew his rein, Meta's bright
face nodded to him from Flora's sitting-room window; and, as he passed
the conservatory, the little person met him, with a summons, at once, to
his sister.

He found Flora on the sofa, with a table beside her, covered with notes
and papers. She was sitting up writing; and, though somewhat pale, was
very smiling and animated
said Flora, laughing
said
Norman
said Flora
Flora seemed to thrive upon her sacrifice -- she had never appeared more
brilliant and joyous. Her brother saw, in her, a Roman matron; and the
ambition that was inherent in his nature, began to find compensation for
being crushed, as far as regarded himself, by soaring for another. He
eagerly answered that he fully agreed with her, and that she would never
repent urging her husband to take on himself the duties incumbent on all
who had the power.

Highly gratified, she asked him to look at a copy of George's intended
address, which was lying on the table. He approved of the tenor, but
saw a few phrases susceptible of a better point
she said,
putting a pen into his hand; and he began to interline and erase her
fair manuscript, talking earnestly, and working up himself and the
address at the same time, till it had grown into a composition far
superior to the merely sensible affair it had been. Eloquence and
thought were now in the language, and substance -- and Flora was
delighted
said Norman,
descending from the clouds of patriotism
said Flora
The little girl was brought in, and Flora made a very pretty young
mother, as she held her in her arms, with so much graceful pride. Norman
was perfectly entranced -- he had never seen his sister so charming or so
admirable, between her delight in her infant, and her self-devotion to
the good of her husband and her country -- acting so wisely, and speaking
so considerately; and praising her dear Meta with so much warmth. He
would never have torn himself away, had not the nurse hinted that Mrs.
Rivers had had too much excitement and fatigue already to-day; and,
besides, he suspected that he might find Meta in the drawing-room, where
he might discuss the whole with her, and judge for himself of her state
of spirits.

Flora's next visitor was her father, who came as the twilight was
enhancing the comfortable red brightness of the fire. He was very happy
in these visits -- mother and child had both prospered so well, and it was
quite a treat to be able to expend his tenderness on Flora. His little
grandchild seemed to renew his own happy days, and he delighted to take
her from her mother and fondle her. No sooner was the baby in his arms
than Flora's hands were busy among the papers, and she begged him to
ring for lights
he said
and she turned, so that the
light might fall on the paper
said Dr. May, holding out his hand for it
She read it accordingly, and her father admired it exceedingly -- Norman's
touches, above all; and Flora's reading had dovetailed all so neatly
together that no one knew where the joins were
she said
Dr. May was dismayed at seeing her take up her pen, make a desk of her
blotting-book, and begin her copy by firelight
he said
Flora smiled, and said
said Dr. May, looking at the
babe
Flora was silent for a minute, then said
She shook her head, and smiled a negative, as if she would, but that she
was under a necessity
She looked very much hurt, and turned away her head.

Her father was grieved
he added
No answer
said Flora, collecting her dignity
Accordingly, when George came home, the doctor read him a lecture on his
wife's over-busy brain; and was listened to, as usual, with gratitude
and deference. He professed that he only wished to do what was best for
her, but she never would spare herself; and, going to her side, with his
heavy, fond solicitude, he made her promise not to hurt herself, and she
laughed and consented.

The promise was easily given, for she did not believe she was hurting
herself; and, as to giving up the election, or ceasing secretly to
prompt George, that was absolutely out of the question. What could be a
greater duty than to incite her husband to usefulness?

Moreover it was but proper to invite Meta's aunt and cousin to see
her, and to project a few select dinners for their amusement and the
gratification of her neighbours. It was only grateful and cousinly
likewise, to ask the "Master of Glenbracken"; and as she saw the
thrill of colour on Ethel's cheeks, at the sight of the address to the
Honourable Norman Ogilvie, she thought herself the best of sisters. She
even talked of Ogilvie as a second Christian name, but Meta observed
that old Aunt Dorothy would call it Leonorar Rogilvie Rivers, and thus
averted it, somewhat to Ethel's satisfaction.

Ethel scolded herself many times for wondering whether Mr. Ogilvie would
come. What was it to her? Suppose he should; suppose the rest. What a
predicament! How unreasonable and conceited, even to think of such a
thing, when her mind was made up. What could result, save tossings to
and fro, a passing gratification set against infinite pain, and strife
with her own heart and with her father's unselfishness! Had he but come
before Flora's marriage! No; Ethel hated herself for the wish that arose
for the moment. Far better he should keep away, if, perhaps, without the
slightest inclination towards her, his mere name could stir up such a
tumult -- all, it might be, founded in vanity. Rebellious feelings and
sense of tedium had once been subdued -- why should they be roused again?

The answer came. Norman Ogilvie was setting off for Italy, and regretted
that he could not take Abbotstoke on his way. He desired his kind
remembrances and warm Christmas wishes to all his cousins.

If Ethel breathed more freely, there was a sense that tranquillity is
uninteresting. It was, it must be confessed, a flat end to a romance,
that all the permanent present effect was a certain softening, and a
degree more attention to her appearance; and after all, this might, as
Flora averred, be ascribed to the Paris outfit having taught her to wear
clothes; as well as to that which had awakened the feminine element, and
removed that sense of not being like other women, which sometimes hangs
painfully about girls who have learned to think themselves plain or
awkward.

There were other causes why it should be a dreary winter to Ethel, under
the anxiety that strengthened by duration, and the strain of acting
cheerfulness for Margaret's sake. Even Mary was a care. Her round rosy
childhood had worn into height and sallowness, and her languor and
indifference fretted Miss Bracy, and was hunted down by Ethel, till
Margaret convinced her that it was a case for patience and tenderness,
which, thenceforth, she heartily gave, even encountering a scene
with Miss Bracy, who was much injured by the suggestion that Mary was
oppressed by perspective. Poor Mary, no one guessed the tears nightly
shed over Harry's photograph.

Nor could Ethel quite fathom Norman. He wore the dispirited, burdened
expression that she knew too well, but he would not, as formerly, seek
relief in confidence to her, shunning the being alone with her, and far
too much occupied to offer to walk to Cocksmoor. When the intelligence
came that good old Mr. Wilmot of Settlesham had peacefully gone to his
rest, after a short and painless illness, Tom was a good deal affected,
in his peculiar silent and ungracious fashion; but Norman did not seek
to talk over the event, and the feelings he had entertained two years
ago -- he avoided the subject, and threw himself into the election matters
with an excitement foreign to his nature.

He was almost always at Abbotstoke, or attending George Rivers at the
committee-room at the Swan, talking, writing, or consulting, concocting
squibs, and perpetrating bons mots, that were the delight of friends and
the confusion of foes. Flora was delighted, George adored him, Meta's
eyes danced whenever he came near, Dr. Spencer admired him, and Dr.
Hoxton prophesied great things of him; but Ethel did not feel as if he
were the veritable Norman, and had an undefined sensation of discomfort,
when she heard his brilliant repartees, and the laughter with which he
accompanied them, so unlike his natural rare and noiseless laugh. She
knew it was false excitement, to drive away the suspense that none dared
to avow, but which did not press on them the less heavily for being
endured in silence. Indeed, Dr. May could not help now and then giving
way to outbursts of despondency, of which his friend, Dr. Spencer, who
made it his special charge to try to lighten his troubles, was usually
the kind recipient.

And though the bustle of the election was incongruous, and seemed to
make the leaden weight the more heavy, there was a compensation in
the tone of feeling that it elicited, which gave real and heartfelt
pleasure.

Dr. May had undergone numerous fluctuations of popularity. He had always
been the same man, excellent in intention, though hasty in action, and
heeding neither praise nor censure; and while the main tenor of his
course never varied, making many deviations by flying to the reverse
of the wrong, most immediately before him, still his personal character
gained esteem every year; and though sometimes his merits, and sometimes
his failings, gave violent umbrage, he had steadily risen in the
estimation of his fellow-townsmen, as much as his own inconsistencies
and theirs would allow, and every now and then was the favourite with
all, save with the few who abused him for tyranny, because he prevented
them from tyrannising.

He was just now on the top of the wave, and his son-in-law had nothing
to do but to float in on the tide of his favour. The opposite faction
attempted a contest, but only rendered the triumph more complete,
and gave the gentlemen the pleasure of canvassing, and hearing, times
without number, that the constituents only wished the candidate were
Dr. May himself. His sons and daughters were full of exultation -- Dr.
Spencer, much struck, rallied "Dick" on his influence -- and Dr. May, the
drops of warm emotion trembling on his eyelashes, smiled, and bade his
friend see him making a church-rate.

The addresses and letters that came from the Grange were so admirable,
that Dr. May often embraced Norman's steady opinion that George was
a very wise man. If Norman was unconscious how much he contributed
to these compositions, he knew far less how much was Flora's. In his
ardour, he crammed them both, and conducted George when Flora could not
be at his side. George himself was a personable man, wrote a good
bold hand, would do as he was desired, and was not easily put out of
countenance; he seldom committed himself by talking; and when a speech
was required, was brief, and to the purpose. He made a very good figure,
and in the glory of victory, Ethel herself began to grow proud of him,
and the children's great object in life was to make the jackdaws cry
Flora had always declared that she would be at Stoneborough for the
nomination. No one believed her, until three days before, she presented
herself and her daughter before the astonished Margaret, who was
too much delighted to be able to scold. She had come away on her own
responsibility, and was full of triumph. To come home in this manner,
after having read
on all the dead walls, might be
called that for which she had lived. She made no stay -- she had only
come to show her child, and establish a precedent for driving out, and
Margaret had begun to believe the apparition a dream, when the others
came in, some from Cocksmoor, others from the committee-room at the
Swan
exclaimed Ethel
said Dr. Spencer
The nomination-day brought Flora, Meta, baby and all to be very quiet,
as was said; but how could that be? when every boy in the house was
frantic, and the men scarcely less so. Aubrey and Gertrude, and the two
jackdaws, each had a huge blue and orange rosette, and the two former
went about roaring
without the least consideration
for the baby, who would have been decked in the same manner, if Ethel
would have heard of it without indignation, at her wearing any colour
before her christening white; as to Jack and Jill, though they could
say their lesson, they were too much distressed by their ornaments to do
ought but lurk in corners, and strive to peck them off.

Flora comported herself in her usual quiet way, and tried to talk of
other things, though a carnation spot in each cheek showed her anxiety
and excitement. She went with her sisters to look out from Dr. Spencer's
windows towards the Town Hall. Her husband gave her his arm as they
went down the garden, and Ethel saw her talking earnestly to him, and
pressing his arm with her other hand to enforce her words, but if she
did tutor him, it was hardly visible, and he was very glad of whatever
counsel she gave.

She spoke not a word after the ladies were left with Aubrey, who was in
despair at not being allowed to follow Hector and Tom, but was left, as
his prematurely classical mind expressed it, like the Gaulish women with
the impedimenta in the marshes -- whereas Tom had added insult to injury,
by a farewell to
Meta tried to console him, by persuading him that he was their
protector, and he began to think there was need of a guard, when a
mighty cheer caused him to take refuge behind Ethel. Even when assured
that it was anything but terrific, he gravely declared that he thought
Margaret would want him, but he could not cross the garden without Meta
to protect him.

She would not allow any one else to relieve her from the doughty
champion, and thereby she missed the spectacle. It might be that she did
not regret it, for though it would have been unkind to refuse to come in
with her brother and sister, her wound was still too fresh for crowds,
turmoil, and noisy rejoicing to be congenial. She did not withdraw her
hand, which Aubrey squeezed harder at each resounding shout, nor object
to his conducting her to see his museum in the dark corner of the
attics, most remote from the tumult.

The loss was not great. The others could hear nothing distinctly, and
see only a wilderness of heads; but the triumph was complete. Dr. May
had been cheered enough to satisfy even Hector; George Rivers had made
a very fair speech, and hurrahs had covered all deficiencies; Hector had
shouted till he was as hoarse as the jackdaws; the opposite candidate
had never come forward at all; Tomkins was hiding his diminished head;
and the gentlemen had nothing to report but success, and were in the
highest spirits.

By and by Blanche was missing, and Ethel, going in quest of her, spied
a hem of blue merino peeping out under all the cloaks in the hall
cupboard, and found the poor little girl sobbing in such distress, that
it was long before any explanation could be extracted, but at last it
was revealed -- when the door had been shut, and they stood in the dark,
half stifled among the cloaks, that George's spirits had taken his old
facetious style with Blanche, and in the very hearing of Hector!
The misery of such jokes to a sensitive child, conscious of not
comprehending their scope, is incalculable, and Blanche having been a
baby-coquette, was the more susceptible. She hid her face again from the
very sound of her own confession, and resisted Ethel's attempts to draw
her out of the musty cupboard, declaring that she could never see either
of them again. Ethel, in vain, assured her that George was gone to the
dinner at the Swan; nothing was effectual but being told that for her
to notice what had passed was the sure way to call Hector's attention
thereto, when she bridled, emerged, and begged to know whether she
looked as if she had been crying. Poor child, she could never again
be unconscious, but, at least, she was rendered peculiarly afraid of a
style of notice, that might otherwise have been a temptation.

Ethel privately begged Flora to hint to George to alter his style of
wit, and the suggestion was received better than the blundering manner
deserved; Flora was too exulting to take offence, and her patronage of
all the world was as full-blown as her ladylike nature allowed. Ethel,
she did not attempt to patronise, but she promised all the sights
in London to the children, and masters to Mary and Blanche, and she
perfectly overwhelmed Miss Bracy with orphan asylums for her sisters.
She would have liked nothing better than dispersing cards, with Mrs.
Rivers prominent among the recommenders of the case
said she to her baby, when
taking leave that evening
said Ethel, and Flora smiled, well pleased, but she had not
caught half the meaning
added Ethel, in
a low voice that no one heard, and she was glad they did not. They were
all triumphant, and she could not tell why she had a sense of sadness,
and thought of Flora's story long ago, of the girl who ascended Mont
Blanc, and for what?

All she had to do at present was to listen to Miss Bracy, who was sure
that Mrs. Rivers thought Mary and Blanche were not improved, and was
afraid she was ungrateful for all the intended kindness to her sister.

Ethel had more sympathy here, for she had thought that Flora was giving
herself airs, and she laughed and said her sister was pleased to be in
a position to help her friends; and tried to turn it off, but ended
by stumbling into allowing that prosperity was apt to make people
over-lavish of offers of kindness
cried Miss Bracy, attempting to kiss her hand.

If Ethel had not spoken rightly of her sister, she was sufficiently
punished.

What she did was to burst into a laugh, and exclaim
And, thinking she had been savage about her hand, Ethel turned back, and
kissed the little governess's forehead, wished her goodnight, and ran
away.

She had learned that, to be rough and merry, was the best way of doing
Miss Bracy good in the end; and so she often gave herself the present
pain of knowing that she was being supposed careless and hard-hearted;
but the violent affection for her proved that the feeling did not last.

Ethel was glad to sit by the fire at bed-time, and think over the day,
outwardly so gay, inwardly so fretting and perplexing.

It was the first time that she had seen much of her little niece. She
was no great baby-handler, nor had she any of the phrases adapted to the
infant mind; but that pretty little serene blue-eyed girl had been her
chief thought all day, and she was abashed by recollecting how little
she had dwelt on her own duties as her sponsor, in the agitations
excited by the doubts about her coadjutor.

She took out her Prayer-book, and read the Service for Baptism,
recollecting the thoughts that had accompanied her youngest sister's
orphaned christening
They seemed far enough off then, and
now -- poor little Leonora!

Ethel knew that she judged her sister hardly; yet she could not help
picturing to herself the future -- a young lady, trained for fashionable
life, serious teaching not omitted, but right made the means of
rising in the world; taught to strive secretly, but not openly, for
admiration -- a scheming for her marriage -- a career like Flora's own.
Ethel could scarcely feel that it would not be a mockery to declare, on
her behalf, that she renounced the world. But, alas! where was not the
world? Ethel blushed at having censured others, when, so lately, she had
herself been oblivious of the higher duty. She thought of the prayer,
including every Christian in holy and loving intercession
There was a happy family gathering on the New Year's Day, and Flora, who
had kindly felt her way with Meta, finding her not yet ready to enjoy
a public festivity for the village, added a supplement to the Christmas
beef, that a second dinner might be eaten at home, in honour of Miss
Leonora Rivers.

Lady Leonora was highly satisfied with her visit, which impressed her
far more in favour of the Abbotstoke neighbourhood than in the days
of poor old Mr. Rivers. Flora knew every one, and gave little select
dinner-parties, which, by her good management, even George, at the
bottom of the table, could not make heavy. Dr. Spencer enjoyed them
greatly, and was an unfailing resource for conversation; and as to the
Hoxtons, Flora felt herself amply repaying the kindness she had received
in her young lady days, when she walked down to the dining-room with
the portly headmaster, or saw his good lady sit serenely admiring
the handsome rooms
was the universal verdict on Mrs. Rivers. Lady Leonora
struck up a great friendship with her, and was delighted that she meant
to take Meta to London. The only fault that could be found with her was
that she had so many brothers; and Flora, recollecting that her ladyship
mistrusted those brothers, avoided encouraging their presence at the
Grange, and took every precaution against any opening for the suspicion
that she threw them in the way of her little sister-in-law.

Nor had Flora forgotten the Ladies' Committee, or Cocksmoor. As to the
muses, they gave no trouble at all. Exemplary civilities about the chair
passed between the Member's lady and Mrs. Ledwich, ending in Flora's
insisting that priority in office should prevail, feeling that she could
well afford to yield the post of honour, since anywhere she was the
leader. She did not know how much more conformable the ladies had
been ever since they had known Dr. Spencer's opinion; and yet he only
believed that they were grateful for good advice, and went about among
them, easy, good-natured, and utterly unconscious that for him sparkled
Mrs. Ledwich's bugles, and for him waved every spinster's ribbon, from
Miss Rich down to Miss Boulder.

The point carried by their united influence was Charity Elwood's being
sent for six months' finish at the Diocesan Training School; while a
favourite pupil-teacher from Abbotstoke took her place at Cocksmoor.
Dr. Spencer looked at the Training School, and talked Mrs. Ledwich into
magnanimous forgiveness of Mrs. Elwood. Cherry dreaded the ordeal, but
she was willing to do anything that was thought right, and likely to
make her fitter for her office
Twas a long doubt; we never heard
       Exactly how the ship went down.-- ARCHER GURNEY.


The tidings came at last, came when the heart-sickness of hope deferred
had faded into the worse heart-sickness of fear deferred, and when
spirits had been fain to rebel, and declare that they would be almost
glad to part with the hope that but kept alive despair.

The Christmas holidays had come to an end, and the home party were again
alone, when early in the forenoon, there was a tap at the drawing-room
door, and Dr. Spencer called
Margaret started as if those gentle tones had been a thunderclap
she said
Dr. Spencer stood in the hall with a newspaper in his hand. Ethel said
and he made a sorrowful gesture
she asked
he repeated
hoarsely called Margaret
said Dr. Spencer, putting the paper into her hand
She obeyed. She could not speak, but kneeling down by her sister, they
read the paragraph together; Ethel, with one eye on the words, the other
on Margaret.

No doubt was left. Captain Gordon had returned, and this was his
official report. The names of the missing stood below, and the list
began thus:--

        Lieutenant A. H. Ernescliffe.
        Mr. Charles Owen, Mate.
        Mr. Harry May, Midshipman.

The Alcestis had taken fire on the 12th of April of the former year.
There had been much admirable conduct, and the intrepid coolness of Mr.
Ernescliffe was especially recorded. The boats had been put off without
loss, but they were scantily provisioned, and the nearest land was far
distant. For five days the boats kept together, then followed a night
of storms, and, when morning dawned, the second cutter, under command of
Mr. Ernescliffe, had disappeared. There could be no doubt that she had
sunk, and the captain could only record his regrets for the loss the
service had experienced in the three brave young officers and their
gallant seamen. After infinite toil and suffering, the captain, with the
other boats' crews, had reached Tahiti, whence they had made their way
home
cried Ethel.

Margaret raised herself, and the colour came into her face
she said
said Ethel, alarmed
continued Margaret, her eyes
brightening, but her breath, in long-drawn gasps that terrified Ethel
into calling Dr. Spencer.

Mary was standing before him, with bloodless face and dilated eyes; but,
as Ethel approached, she turned and rushed upstairs.

Dr. Spencer entered the drawing-room with Ethel, who tried to read his
face as he saw Margaret -- restored, as it seemed, to all her girlish
bloom, and her eyes sparkling as they were lifted up, far beyond the
present scene. Ethel had a moment's sense that his expression was as
if he had seen a death-blow struck, but it was gone in a moment, as
he gently shook Margaret by the hand, and spoke a word of greeting, as
though to recall her
she said, with her own grateful smile
he asked of Ethel
said Ethel, with a
ghastly suspicion that he thought Margaret in a state to require him
said Margaret
She turned aside her head, and hid her face. Dr. Spencer signed Ethel
nearer to him
he said
Pressing her hand
he departed.

Margaret was weeping tranquilly -- Ethel knelt down beside her, without
daring at first to speak, but sending up intense mental prayers to Him,
who alone could bear her or her dear father through their affliction.
Then she ventured to take her hand, and Margaret returned the caress,
but began to blame herself for the momentary selfishness that had
allowed her brother's loss and her father's grief to have been forgotten
in her own. Ethel's
did not console her for this which
seemed the most present sorrow, but the flow of tears was so gentle,
that Ethel trusted that they were a relief. Ethel herself seemed only
able to watch her, and to fear for her father, not to be able to think
for herself.

The front door opened, and they heard Dr. May's step hesitating in the
hall, as if he could not bear to come in
cried Margaret, wiping off her tears. Ethel stood a moment
in the doorway, then sprang to him, and was clasped in his arms
he whispered
He could not say the words,
but he looked towards the room, and wrung the hand he held
He threw one arm round Ethel, and laid his hand on her head
he said, then advancing, he hung over
Margaret, calling her his own poor darling
Tears choked his utterance -- Margaret gently stroked his hand
he said
said Margaret
said Dr. May
said Margaret
cried Dr. May, almost angrily
said Margaret
said the doctor
Poor Mary, Ethel felt as if she had neglected her! She found her hanging
over the nursery fire, alternating with old nurse in fond reminiscences
of Harry's old days, sometimes almost laughing at his pranks, then
crying again, while Aubrey sat between them, drinking in each word.

Blanche and Gertrude came from the schoolroom, where Miss Bracy seemed
to have been occupying them, with much kindness and judgment. She came
to the door to ask Ethel anxiously for the doctor and Miss May, and
looked so affectionate and sympathising, that Ethel gave her a hearty
kiss
said Ethel with all her heart, and hurried away. Nothing
was more in favour of Miss Bracy, than that there should be a hurry.
Then she could be warm, and not morbid.

Dr. May gathered his children round him, and took out the great
Prayer-book. He read a psalm and a prayer from the Burial Service, and
the sentence for funerals at sea. Then he touched each of their heads,
and, in short broken sentences, gave thanks for those still left to him,
and for the blessed hope they could feel for those who were gone; and he
prayed that they might so follow in their footsteps, as to come to the
same holy place, and in the meantime realise the Communion of Saints.
Then they said the Lord's Prayer, he blessed them, and they arose
he said
She put the case into his hands, and ran away.

He went to the study, where he found Dr. Spencer awaiting him
He turned aside, and burst out
And, covering his face, he let his grief
have a free course
said poor Dr. May
sighed his friend, as he felt his
inability to contend with such grief
Dr. May said, and he looked so
said Dr. Spencer
repeated Dr. May, supporting his head on his hand; and, looking
up dreamily
The large Bible lay beside him on the table, and Dr. Spencer thought
that he would find more rest there than in his words. Leaving him,
therefore, his friend went to undertake his day's work, and learn, once
more, in the anxious inquiries and saddened countenances of the patients
and their friends, how great an amount of love and sympathy that Dr. May
had won by his own warmth of heart. The patients seemed to forget their
complaints in sighs for their kind doctor's troubles; and the gouty
Mayor of Stoneborough kept Dr. Spencer half an hour to listen to his
recollections of the bright-faced boy's droll tricks, and then to the
praises of the whole May family, and especially of the mother.

Poor Dr. Spencer! he heard her accident described so many times in the
course of the day, that his visits were one course of shrinking and
suffering; and his only satisfaction was in knowing how his friend would
be cheered by hearing of the universal feeling for him and his children.

Ethel wrote letters to her brothers; and Dr. May added a few lines,
begging Richard to come home, if only for a few days. Margaret would
not be denied writing to Hector Ernescliffe, though she cried over her
letter so much that her father could almost have taken her pen away; but
she said it did her good.

When Flora came in the afternoon, Ethel was able to leave Margaret
to her, and attend to Mary, with whom Miss Bracy's kindness had been
inefficacious. If she was cheered for a few minutes, some association,
either with the past or the vanished future, soon set her off sobbing
again
she sobbed
The ghastly uncertainty was too terrible for Ethel to have borne to
contemplate it. She knew that it would haunt their pillows, and she was
trying to nerve herself by faith
she said
said Mary, trying to check her sobs
said Ethel, looking up
said Mary, more comforted
than if Ethel had been talking down to her.

By and by Ethel discovered that the sharpest trouble to the fond simple
girl was the deprivation of her precious photograph. It was like losing
Harry over again, to go to bed without it, though she would not for the
world seem to grudge it to her father.

Ethel found an opportunity of telling him of this distress, and it
almost made him smile
he said
He did not forget to restore the treasure with gratitude proportionate
to what the loan had cost Mary. With a trembling voice, she proffered
it to him for the whole day, and every day, if she might only have it at
night; and she even looked black when he did not accept the proposal
said she
he answered kindly
Mary was somewhat mortified, but she valued her photograph more than
ever, because no one else would admire it, except Daisy, whom she had
taught to regard it with unrivalled veneration.

A letter soon arrived from Captain Gordon, giving a fuller account of
the loss of his ship, and of the conduct of his officers, speaking in
the highest terms of Alan Ernescliffe, for whom he said he mourned as
for his own son, and, with scarcely less warmth, of Harry, mentioning
the high esteem all had felt for the boy, and the good effect which
the influence of his high and truthful spirit had produced on the other
youngsters, who keenly regretted him.

Captain Gordon added that the will of the late Captain Ernescliffe had
made him guardian of his sons, and that he believed poor Alan had died
intestate. He should therefore take upon himself the charge of young
Hector, and he warmly thanked Dr. May and his family for all the
kindness that the lad had received.

Though the loss of poor Hector's visits was regretted, it was, on the
whole, a comforting letter, and would give still more comfort in future
time.

Richard contrived to come home through Oxford and see Norman, whom he
found calm, and almost relieved by the cessation from suspense; not
inclined, as his father had feared, to drown sorrow in labour,
but regarding his grief as an additional call to devote himself to
ministerial work. In fact, the blow had fallen when he first heard the
rumour of danger, and could not recur with the same force.

Richard was surprised to find that Margaret was less cast down than he
could have dared to hope. It did not seem like an affliction to her.
Her countenance wore the same gentle smile, and she was as ready
to participate in all that passed, finding sympathy for the little
pleasures of Aubrey and Gertrude, and delighting in Flora's baby; as
well as going over Cocksmoor politics with a clearness and accuracy that
astonished him, and asking questions about his parish and occupations,
so as fully to enjoy his short visit, which she truly called the
greatest possible treat.

If it had not been for the momentary consternation that she had seen
upon Dr. Spencer's face, Ethel would have been perfectly satisfied;
but she could not help sometimes entertaining a dim fancy that this
composure came from a sense that she was too near Alan to mourn for him.
Could it be true that her frame was more wasted, that there was less
capability of exertion, that her hours became later in the morning, and
that her nights were more wakeful? Would she fade away? Ethel longed to
know what her father thought, but she could neither bear to inspire him
with the apprehension, nor to ask Dr. Spencer's opinion, lest she should
be confirmed in her own.

The present affliction altered Dr. May more visibly than the death of
his wife, perhaps, because there was not the same need of exertion. If
he often rose high in faith and resignation, he would also sink very low
under the sense of bereavement and disappointment. Though Richard
was his stay, and Norman his pride, there was something in Harry more
congenial to his own temper, and he could not but be bowed down by the
ruin of such bright hopes. With all his real submission, he was weak,
and gave way to outbursts of grief, for which he blamed himself as
unthankful; and his whole demeanour was so saddened and depressed,
that Ethel and Dr. Spencer consulted mournfully over him, whenever they
walked to Cocksmoor together.

This was not as often as usual, though the walls of the school were
rising, for Dr. Spencer had taken a large share of his friend's work for
the present, and both physicians were much occupied by the condition of
Mr. Ramsden who was fast sinking, and, for some weeks, seemed only kept
alive by their skill. The struggle ended at last, and his forty
years' cure of Stoneborough was closed. It made Dr. May very sad -- his
affections had tendrils for anything that he had known from boyhood;
and though he had often spoken strong words of the vicar, he now sat
sorrowfully moralising and making excuses
Yet after all, he exclaimed with one of his impatient gestures
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Margaret
The city's golden spire it was,
       When hope and health were strongest;
     But now it is the churchyard grass,
       We look upon the longest.-- E. B. BROWNING.


A disinclination for exertion or going into public hung upon Dr. May,
but he was obliged to rouse himself to attend the Town Council meeting,
which was held a few days after the vicar's funeral, to decide on the
next appointment. If it had depended on himself alone, his choice would
have been Mr. Edward Wilmot, whom the death of his good old father had
uprooted from Settlesham; and the girls had much hope, but he was too
much out of spirits to be sanguine. He said that he should only hear a
great deal of offensive stuff from Tomkins the brewer; and that, in
the desire to displease nobody, the votes should settle down on some
nonentity, was the best which was likely to happen. Thus, grumbling, he
set off, and his daughters watched anxiously for his return. They saw
him come through the garden with a quick, light step, that made them
augur well, and he entered the room with the corners of his mouth
turning up
said Ethel
cried Margaret breathlessly
said
the doctor, almost overcome
And good Dr. May was not one to give the least credit for all that was
like himself
he continued
cried Ethel
said Margaret, as the tears came
cried Margaret, in consternation
said Ethel
said Dr. May
sighed Ethel
continued the doctor
Ethel would not say no, for fear she should pain Margaret
continued Dr. May
Margaret owned this, and Ethel said Richard would be glad to be spared
the refusal
said Margaret, recovering herself
said Ethel
said Margaret
cried Ethel
said the doctor
Margaret was somewhat comforted to find that the sacrifice had cost her
father a good deal; she was always slightly jealous for Richard, and
now that Alan was gone, she clung to him more than ever. His soft calm
manner supported her more than any other human comforter, and she always
yearned after him when absent, more than for all the other brothers; but
her father's decision had been too high-minded for her to dare to wish
it recalled, and she could not but own that Richard would have had
to undergo more toil and annoyance than perhaps his health would have
endured.

Flora had discontinued comments to her sisters on her father's
proceedings, finding that observations mortified Margaret, and did not
tend to peace with Ethel; but she told her husband that she did not
regret it much, for Richard would have exhausted his own income, and his
father's likewise, in paying curates, and raising funds for charities.
She scarcely expected Mr. Edward Wilmot to accept the offer, aware as
he was, of the many disadvantages he should have to contend with, and
unsuccessful as he had been in dealing with the Ladies' Committee.

However, Mr. Wilmot signified his thankful acceptance, and, in due time,
his familiar tap was heard at the drawing-room door, at tea-time, as if
he had just returned after the holidays. He was most gladly welcomed,
and soon was installed in his own place, with his goddaughter, Mary,
blushing with pleasure at pouring out his coffee
cried Ethel
said Margaret
said Dr. May
Mr. Wilmot did not look too hopeful, but he smiled, and asked after
Granny Hall, and the children
said Ethel
said Mr. Wilmot
said Mary
said Ethel
added Margaret
said Dr. May
Ethel and Mary broke out in a chorus of defence of Willie Brown
said Mary
said Dr. May, smiling
said Ethel
she added,
sighing
said Mr. Wilmot
said Dr. May
said Mr. Wilmot
Margaret could only smile faintly, for her heart was beating
said Mr. Wilmot, turning to Dr. May
said the doctor, smiling
The matter was explained, and Mr. Wilmot was a great deal more struck
by Dr. May's conduct than the good doctor thought it deserved. Every
one was only too glad that Richard should come as Cocksmoor curate; and,
though the stipend was very small -- since Mr. Wilmot meant to have other
assistance -- yet, by living at home, it might be feasible.

Margaret's last words that night to Ethel were
Mr. Wilmot wrote to Richard, who joyfully accepted his proposal,
and engaged to come home as soon as his present rector could find a
substitute.

Dr. Spencer was delighted, and, it appeared, had already had a view to
such possibilities in designing the plan of the school.

The first good effect of Mr. Wilmot's coming was, that Dr. Spencer
was cured of the vagrant habits of going to church at Abbotstoke or
Fordholm, that had greatly concerned his friend. Dr. May, who could
never get any answer from him except that he was not a Town Councillor,
and, as to example, it was no way to set that to sleep through the
sermon.

To say that Dr. May never slept under the new dynasty would be an
over-statement, but slumber certainly prevailed in the minster to a far
less degree than formerly. One cause might be that it was not shut up
unaired from one Sunday to another, but that the chime of the bells
was no longer an extraordinary sound on a week-day. It was at first
pronounced that time could not be found for going to church on week-days
without neglecting other things, but Mary, who had lately sat very loose
to the schoolroom, began gradually to slip down to church whenever the
service was neither too early nor too late; and Gertrude was often found
trotting by her side -- going to mamma, as the little Daisy called it,
from some confusion between the church and the cloister, which Ethel was
in no hurry to disturb.

Lectures in Lent filled the church a good deal, as much perhaps from the
novelty as from better motives, and altogether there was a renewal
of energy in parish work. The poor had become so little accustomed to
pastoral care, that the doctors and the district visitors were obliged
to report cases of sickness to the clergy, and vainly tried to rouse the
people to send of their own accord. However, the better leaven began
to work, and, of course, there was a ferment, though less violent than
Ethel had expected.

Mr. Wilmot set more cautiously to work than he had done in his younger
days, and did not attack prejudices so openly, and he had an admirable
assistant in Dr. Spencer. Every one respected the opinion of the
travelled doctor, and he had a courteous clever process of the reduction
to the absurd, which seldom failed to tell, while it never gave offence.
As to the Ladies' Committee, though there had been expressions of
dismay, when the tidings of the appointment first went abroad, not one
of the whole "Aonian choir" liked to dissent from Dr. Spencer, and he
talked them over, individually, into a most conformable state, merely by
taking their compliance for granted, and showing that he deemed it
only the natural state of things, that the vicar should reign over the
charities of the place.

The committee was not dissolved -- that would have been an act of
violence -- but it was henceforth subject to Mr. Wilmot, and he and his
curates undertook the religious instruction in the week, and chose the
books -- a state of affairs brought about with so much quietness, that
Ethel knew not whether Flora, Dr. Spencer, or Mr. Wilmot had been the
chief mover.

Mrs. Ledwich was made treasurer of a new coal club, and Miss Rich keeper
of the lending-library, occupations which delighted them greatly; and
Ethel was surprised to find how much unity of action was springing up,
now that the period was over, of each
said Dr. Spencer
The Cocksmoor accounts were Ethel's chief anxiety. It seemed as if now
there might be a school-house, but with little income to depend upon,
since poor Alan Ernescliffe's annual ten pounds was at an end. However,
Dr. May leaned over her as she was puzzling over her pounds, shillings,
and pence, and laid a cheque upon her desk. She looked up in his face
he said.

By and by it appeared that Cocksmoor was not out of Hector Ernescliffe's
mind. The boy's letters to Margaret had been brief, matter-of-fact, and
discouraging, as long as the half-year lasted, and there was not much to
be gathered about him from Tom, on his return for the Easter holidays,
but soon poor Hector wrote a long dismal letter to Margaret.

Captain Gordon had taken him to Maplewood, where the recollection of his
brother, and the happy hopes with which they had taken possession, came
thronging upon him. The house was forlorn, and the corner that had been
unpacked for their reception, was as dreary a contrast to the bright
home at Stoneborough, as was the dry, stern captain, to the fatherly
warm-hearted doctor. Poor Hector had little or nothing to do, and the
pleasure of possession had not come yet; he had no companion of his own
age, and bashfulness made him shrink with dislike from introduction to
his tenants and neighbours.

There was not an entertaining book in the house, he declared, and the
captain snubbed him, if he bought anything he cared to read. The captain
was always at him to read musty old improving books, and talking about
the position he would occupy. The evenings were altogether unbearable,
and if it were not for rabbit shooting now, and the half-year soon
beginning again, Hector declared he should be ready to cut and run, and
leave Captain Gordon and Maplewood to each other -- and very well matched
too! He was nearly in a state of mind to imitate that unprecedented boy,
who wrote a letter to 'The Times', complaining of extra weeks.

As to Cocksmoor, Ethel must not think it forgotten; he had spoken to the
captain about it, and the old wooden-head had gone and answered that it
was not incumbent on him, that Cocksmoor had no claims upon him, and he
could not make it up out of his allowance; for the old fellow would not
give him a farthing more than he had before, and had said that was too
much.

There was a great blur over the words
as if Hector had
known that Margaret would disapprove, and had tried to scratch it
out. She wrote all the consolation in her power, and exhorted him
to patience, apparently without much effect. She would not show his
subsequent letters, and the reading and answering them fatigued her so
much, that Hector's writing was an unwelcome sight at Stoneborough. Each
letter, as Ethel said, seemed so much taken out of her, and she begged
her not to think about them
said Margaret; and seeing
Ethel's anxious looks
There was nothing more to be said. They all felt it was good for them
that the building at Cocksmoor gave full occupation to thoughts and
conversation; indeed, Tom declared they never walked in any other
direction, nor talked of anything else, and that without Hector, or
George Rivers, he had nobody to speak to. However, he was a good deal
tranquillised by an introduction to Dr. Spencer's laboratory, where he
compounded mixtures that Dr. Spencer promised should do no more harm
than was reasonable to himself, or any one else. Ethel suspected that,
if Tom had chanced to singe his eyebrows, his friend would not have
regretted a blight to his nascent coxcombry, but he was far too careful
of his own beauty to do any such thing.

Richard was set at liberty just before Easter, and came home to his new
charge. He was aware of what had taken place, and heartily grateful for
the part his father had taken. To work at Cocksmoor, under Mr. Wilmot,
and to live at home, was felicity; and he fitted at once into his old
place, and resumed all the little home services for which he had been
always famed. Ethel was certain that Margaret was content, when she saw
her brother bending over her, and the sense of reliance and security
that the presence of the silent Richard imparted to the whole family was
something very peculiar, especially as they were so much more active and
demonstrative than he was.

Mr. Wilmot put him at once in charge of the hamlet. The inhabitants were
still a hard, rude, unpromising race, and there were many flagrant
evils amongst them, but the last few years had not been without some
effect -- some were less obdurate, a few really touched, and, almost all,
glad of instruction for their children. If Ethel's perseverance had
done nothing else, it had, at least, been a witness, and her immediate
scholars showed the influence of her lessons
Then out into the world, my course I did determine;
   Though, to be rich was not my wish, yet to be great was charming.
   My talents they were not the worst, nor yet my education;
   Resolved was I, at least to try, to mend my situation.-- BURNS.


In the meantime, the session of Parliament had begun, and the Rivers'
party had, since February, inhabited Park Lane. Meta had looked pale
and pensive, as she bade her friends at Stoneborough good-bye; but only
betrayed that she had rather have stayed at home, by promising herself
great enjoyment in meeting them again at Easter.

Flora was, on the other hand, in the state of calm patronage that
betokened perfect satisfaction. She promised wonders for Miss Bracy's
sisters -- talked of inviting Mary and Blanche to see sights and take
lessons; and undertook to send all the apparatus needed by Cocksmoor
school; and she did, accordingly, send down so many wonderful articles,
that curate and schoolmistress were both frightened; Mrs. Taylor thought
the easels were new-fashioned instruments of torture; and Ethel found
herself in a condition to be liberal to Stoneborough National School.

Flora was a capital correspondent, and made it her business to keep
Margaret amused, so that the home-party were well informed of the doings
of each of her days -- and very clever her descriptions were. She had
given herself a dispensation from general society until after Easter;
but, in the meantime, both she and Meta seemed to find great enjoyment
in country rides and drives, and in quiet little dinners at home, to
George's agreeable political friends. With the help of two such ladies
as Mrs. and Miss Rivers, Ethel could imagine George's house pleasant
enough to attract clever people; but she was surprised to find how full
her sister's letters were of political news.

It was a period when great interests were in agitation; and the details
of London talk and opinions were extremely welcome. Dr. Spencer used to
come in to ask after "Mrs. Rivers's Intelligencer"; and, when he heard
the lucid statements, would say, she ought to have been a
And her father declared that her news made him twice
as welcome to his patients; but her cleverest sentences always were
prefaced with
or
in a manner that made
her appear merely the dutiful echo of his sentiments.

In an early letter, Flora mentioned how she had been reminded of poor
Harry, by finding Miss Walkinghame's card. That lady lived with her
mother at Richmond, and, on returning the visit, Flora was warmly
welcomed by the kind old Lady Walkinghame, who insisted on her bringing
her baby and spending a long day. The sisters-in-law had been enchanted
with Miss Walkinghame, whose manners, wrote Flora, certainly merited
papa's encomium.

On the promised
they found an unexpected addition to the
party, Sir Henry Walkinghame, who had newly returned from the continent
Flora described
him
A day or two after
By and by Sir Henry was the second cavalier, when they went to an
oratorio, and Meta's letter overflowed with the descriptions she had
heard from him of Italian church music. He always went to Rome for
Easter, and had been going as usual, this spring, but he lingered, and,
for once, remained in England, where he had only intended to spend a few
days on necessary business.

The Easter recess was not spent at the Grange, but at Lady Leonora's
pretty house in Surrey. She had invited the party in so pressing a
manner that Flora did not think it right to decline. Meta expressed some
disappointment at missing Easter among her school-children, but she
said a great deal about the primroses and the green corn-fields, and
nightingales -- all which Ethel would have set down to her trick of
universal content, if it had not appeared that Sir Henry was there too,
and shared in all the delicious rides
wrote Flora
Margaret did not know what dismay she conveyed, as she handed this
letter to her sister. There was no rest for Ethel till she could be
alone with her father
she asked
Ah, Ethel
said Ethel
said Dr. May, sighing
Ethel did not know whether she desired a tete-a-tete with Norman or not.
She was aware that he had seen Flora's letter, and she did not believe
that he would ever mention the hopes that must have been dashed by it;
or, if he should do so, how could she ever guard her father's secret? At
least, she had the comfort of recognising the accustomed Norman in his
manner, low-spirited, indeed, and more than ever dreamy and melancholy,
but not in the unnatural and excited state that had made her unhappy
about him. She could not help telling Dr. Spencer that this was much
more the real brother
was the answer, not quite satisfactory in tone
How Ethel was to take care of him she did not know; she could only
keep a heedful eye on him, and rejoice when he took Tom out for a long
walk -- a companion certainly not likely to promote the working of the
brain -- but though it was in the opposite direction to Cocksmoor, Tom
came home desperately cross, snubbed Gertrude, and fagged Aubrey; but,
then, as Blanche observed, perhaps that was only because his trousers
were splashed.

In her next solitary walk to Cocksmoor, Norman joined Ethel. She was
gratified, but she could not think of one safe word worth saying to him,
and for a mile they preserved an absolute silence, until he first began
said she, between hope and dread, and the thrill of
being again treated as his friend
exclaimed Ethel
he
paused, and the continuation took her by surprise
She could only gaze at him in mute amazement
said Norman hastily
she replied
said Norman affectionately
said Ethel
She made a sound of inquiry
repeated Ethel
he replied
said Ethel, looking pale, and gazing searchingly at him
Ethel recoiled, but came nearer, saying, very low
she asked timidly
Ethel saw the truth of what her friend had said of the morbid habit of
self-contemplation
Ethel took hold of his hand
she said
said Ethel
said Norman, shuddering
said Ethel
Ethel breathed freely
she said
said Norman
said
Ethel
she still
asked anxiously.

He stood still
he said
said Ethel
said Norman
said Ethel
said her brother
said Ethel
said Norman
Ethel thought and thought
she
repeated
said Ethel
said Norman
cried Ethel
said Norman
said Norman
said Ethel
said Norman hastily
said Ethel
said Norman
he added kindly
The brightness that had come over Norman, when he had discharged his
cares upon her, was encouragement enough for Ethel. She only asked how
much she was to repeat of their conversation
Ethel privately thought that no power on earth could prevent him from
doing that.

It was not consistent with cautious sounding, that Norman was always
looking appealingly towards her; and, indeed, she could not wait long
with such a question on her mind. She remained with her father in the
drawing-room, when the rest were gone upstairs, and, plunging at once
into the matter, she said
said Dr. May
said the doctor, startled, but
smiling, so as to pique her
said she
he said
cried Dr. May, drawing up his tall vigorous figure
What could possess him to be so provoking and unsentimental to-night?
Was it her own bad management? She longed to put an end to the
conversation, and answered
said Dr. May
said Ethel; and she related great part of what
she had heard in the afternoon. It was not easy to make her father
listen -- his line was to be positively indignant, rather than
compassionate, when he heard of the doubts that had assailed poor
Norman
and then he grasped tightly hold of Ethel's hands, and, as if
the terror had suddenly flashed on him, asked her, with dilated eye and
trembling voice, whether she were sure that he was safe, and held the
faith.

Ethel repeated his asseveration, and her father covered his face with
his hands in thanksgiving.

After this, he seemed somewhat inclined to hold poor Oxford in horror,
only, as he observed, it would be going out of the frying-pan into the
fire, to take refuge at Paris -- a recurrence to the notion of Norman's
medical studies, that showed him rather enticed by the proposal.

He sent Ethel to bed, saying he should talk to Norman and find out what
was the meaning of it, and she walked upstairs, much ashamed of having
so ill served her brother, as almost to have made him ridiculous.

Dr May and Norman never failed to come to an understanding, and after
they had had a long drive into the country together, Dr May told Ethel
that he was afraid, of what he ought not to be afraid of, that she was
right, that the lad was very much in earnest now at any rate, and if he
should continue in the same mind, he hoped he should not be so weak as
to hold him from a blessed work.

From Norman, Ethel heard the warmest gratitude for his father's
kindness. Nothing could be done yet, he must wait patiently for the
present, but he was to write to his uncle, Mr. Arnott, in New Zealand,
and, without pledging himself, to make inquiries as to the mission; and
in the meantime, return to Oxford, where, to his other studies, he was
to add a course of medical lectures, which, as Dr. May said, would do
him no harm, would occupy his mind, and might turn to use wherever he
was.

Ethel was surprised to find that Norman wrote to Flora an expression of
his resolution, that, if he found he could be spared from assisting his
father as a physician, he would give himself up to the mission in New
Zealand. Why should he tell any one so unsympathetic as Flora, who would
think him wasted in either case
Do not fear: Heaven is as near,
     By water, as by land.-- LONGFELLOW.


The fifth of May was poor Harry's eighteenth birthday, and, as usual,
was a holiday. Etheldred privately thought his memory more likely to be
respected, if Blanche and Aubrey were employed, than if they were left
in idleness; but Mary would have been wretched had the celebration been
omitted, and a leisure day was never unwelcome.

Dr. Spencer carried off Blanche and Aubrey for a walk, and Ethel found
Mary at her great resort -- Harry's cupboard -- dusting and arranging his
books, and the array of birthday gifts, to which, even to-day, she had
not failed to add the marker that had been in hand at Christmas. Ethel
entreated her to come down, and Mary promised, and presently appeared,
looking so melancholy, that, as a sedative, Ethel set her down to
the basket of scraps to find materials for a tippet for some one at
Cocksmoor, intending, as soon as Margaret should be dressed, to resign
her morning to the others, invite Miss Bracy to the drawing-room, and
read aloud.

Gertrude was waiting for her walk, till nurse should have dressed
Margaret, and was frisking about the lawn, sometimes looking in at the
drawing-room window at her sisters, sometimes chattering to Adams at his
work, or laughing to herself and the flowers, in that overflow of mirth,
that seemed always bubbling up within her.

She was standing in rapt contemplation of a pear-tree in full blossom,
her hands tightly clasped behind the back, for greater safety from the
temptation, when, hearing the shrubbery gate open, she turned, expecting
to see her papa, but was frightened at the sight of two strangers, and
began to run off at full speed
The voice was that tone of
her brother's, and she stood and looked, but it came from a tall, ruddy
youth, in a shabby rough blue coat, followed by a grizzled old seaman.
She was too much terrified and perplexed even to run
she answered; and, with one bound, he
was beside her, and, snatching her up, devoured her with kisses
was all she could say
and, at the same time, Adams
hurried up, as if he thought her being kidnapped, but his aspect changed
at the glad cry
as Harry's hand gave him
sensible proof
Harry asked, hurrying the words one over the other
for he had kept her unwilling hand
all the time
pointing to the black ribbons, and,
stopping short, startled
said the bewildered child
cried he, striding on, and dragging her in a
breathless run, as he threw open the well-known doors; and, she escaping
from him, hid her face in Mary's lap, screaming
At the same moment Ethel was in his arms, and his voice was sobbing
One moment's almost agonising joy in
the certainty of his identity! but ere she could look or think, he was
crying
Mary had not moved, but sat as if turned to stone, with breath
suspended, wide-stretched eyes, and death-like cheeks -- Ethel sprang to
her
He seemed almost afraid to do so, but, recovering himself, exclaimed
he added
piteously, as he threw his arm round her and kissed her, startled at the
cold touch of her cheek.

The spell seemed broken, and, with a wild hoarse shriek that rang
through the house, she struggled to regain her breath, but it would only
come in painful, audible catches, as she held Harry's hand convulsively
he exclaimed, in distress
was old nurse's
exclamation, as she and James came at the outcry
repeated Harry
said Ethel
and James
cried Harry, starting at the sight of the vacant sofa
said Ethel
His face told but too plainly
said Ethel
exclaimed nurse, sounding her tongue on the roof of her
mouth
said Mary, with an effort
said Ethel, while the brother was holding Mary in
his embrace, and she lay tremulous with the new ecstasy upon his
breast
Ethel walked up and down the room, divided between a tumult of joy,
grief, dread, and perplexity. At that moment a little voice said at the
door
They looked one upon another in consternation. They had never thought of
the child, who, of course, had flown up at once with the tidings
said nurse
Hand-in-hand, they silently ascended the stairs, and Ethel pushed open
the door. Margaret was on her couch, her whole form and face in one
throb of expectation.

She looked into Harry's face -- the eagerness flitted like sunshine on the
hillside, before a cloud, and, without a word, she held out her arms.

He threw himself on his knees, and her fingers were clasped among his
thick curls, while his frame heaved with suppressed sobs
she said; then slightly pushing him back, she lay holding
his hand in one of hers, and resting the other on his shoulder, and
gazing in silence into his face. Each was still -- she was gathering
strength -- he dreaded word or look
she said at last
and he pointed to his own breast
He said this in short disconnected phrases, often pausing to gather
voice, but forced to resume, by her inquiring looks and pressure of his
hand.

She asked no more
she said, and when he had done so
She sent them all away, even Ethel, who would have lingered
Ethel found Mary and Harry interlaced into one moving figure, and Harry
greedily asking for his father and Norman, as if famishing for the sight
of them. He wanted to set out to seek the former in the town, but his
movements were too uncertain, and the girls clung to the newly-found,
as if they could not trust him away from them. They wandered about,
speaking, all three at random, without power of attending to the
answers. It was enough to see him, and touch him; they could not yet
care where he had been.

Dr. May was in the midst of them ere they were aware. One look, and he
flung his arms round his son, but, suddenly letting him go, he burst
away, and banged his study door. Harry would have followed
said Ethel; then, seeing him disappointed, she came nearer,
and murmured
Harry silenced her with another embrace, but their father was with them
again, to verify that he had really seen his boy, and ask, alas! whether
Alan were with Margaret. The brief sad answer sent him to see how it was
with her. She would not let him stay; she said it was infinite comfort,
and joy was coming, but she would rather be still, and not come down
till evening.

Perhaps others would fain have been still, could they have borne an
instant's deprivation of the sight of their dear sailor, while greetings
came thickly on him. The children burst in, having heard a report in the
town, and Dr. Spencer waited at the door for the confirmation; but when
Ethel would have flown out to him, he waved his hand, shut the door, and
hurried away, as if a word to her would have been an intrusion.

The brothers had been summoned by a headlong apparition of Will Adams in
Cocksmoor school, shouting that Master Harry was come home; and Norman's
long legs out-speeding Richard, had brought him back, flushed, and too
happy for one word, while
was Richard's utmost, and his
care for Margaret seemed to overpower everything else, as he went up,
and was not so soon sent away.

Words were few downstairs. Blanche and Aubrey agreed that they
thought people would have been much happier, but, in fact, the joy was
oppressive from very newness. Ethel roamed about, she could not sit
still without feeling giddy, in the strangeness of the revulsion. Her
father sat, as if a word would break the blest illusion; and Harry
stood before each of them in turn, as if about to speak, but turned
his address into a sudden caress, or blow on the shoulder, and tried to
laugh. Little Gertrude, not understanding; the confusion, had taken up
her station under the table, and peeped out from beneath the cover.

There was more composure as they sat at dinner, and yet there was very
little talking or eating. Afterwards Dr. May and Norman exultingly
walked away, to show their Harry to Dr. Spencer and Mr. Wilmot; and
Ethel would gladly have tried to calm herself, and recover the balance
of her mind, by giving thanks where they were due; but she did not know
what to do with her sisters. Blanche was wild, and Mary still in so
shaky a state of excitement, that she went off into mad laughing, when
Blanche discovered that they were in mourning for Harry.

Nothing would satisfy Blanche but breaking in on Margaret, and climbing
to the top of the great wardrobe to disinter the coloured raiment,
beseeching that each favourite might be at once put on, to do honour
to Harry. Mary chimed in with her, in begging for the wedding
merinos -- would not Margaret wear her beautiful blue
said Margaret gently.

Mary looked at her and was again in a flood of tears, incoherently
protesting, together with Ethel, that they would not change
said Margaret
Ethel knew that it was for life.

Mary could not check her tears, and would go on making heroic protests
against leaving off her black, sobbing the more at each. Margaret's
gentle caresses seemed to make her worse, and Ethel, afraid that
Margaret's own composure would be overthrown, exclaimed
and rather roughly pulled her out of the room,
when she collapsed entirely at the top of the stairs, and sat crying
helplessly
Gertrude was
heard saying to Richard
whereat Mary
relapsed into a giggle, and Ethel felt frantic
said Richard,
tenderly and gravely
began Mary
said Richard
said Ethel, thinking him severe
Mary began to plead, but, with his own pretty persuasive manner, he
took her by the hand, and drew her into his room; and when he came down,
after an interval, it was to check Blanche, who would have gone up to
interrupt her with queries about the perpetual blue merino. He sat down
with Blanche on the staircase window-seat, and did not let her go till
he had gently talked her out of flighty spirits into the soberness of
thankfulness.

Ethel, meanwhile, had still done nothing but stray about, long for
loneliness, find herself too unsteady to finish her letters to Flora
and Tom; and, while she tried to make Gertrude think Harry a pleasant
acquisition, she hated her own wild heart, that could not rejoice, nor
give thanks, aright.

By and by Mary came down, with her bonnet on, quite quiet now
she said. Ethel caught at the notion, and
it spread through the house. Dr May, who just then came in with his two
sons, looked at Harry, saying
And Harry, as soon as he understood, declared that he should like
nothing better. It seemed what they all needed, even Aubrey and Gertrude
begged to come, and, when the solemn old minster was above their
heads, and the hallowed stillness around them, the tightened sense of
half-realised joy began to find relief in the chant of glory. The voices
of the sanctuary, ever uplifting notes of praise, seemed to gather
together and soften their emotions; and agitation was soothed away, and
all that was oppressive and tumultuous gave place to sweet peace and
thankfulness. Ethel dimly remembered the like sense of relief, when her
mother had hushed her wild ecstasy, while sympathising with her joy.
Richard could not trust his voice, but Mr. Wilmot offered the special
thanksgiving.

Harry was, indeed
and his tears fell fast over his book, as
he heard his father's
so fervent and so deep; and he gazed up
and around, with fond and earnest looks, as thoughts and resolutions,
formed there of old, came gathering thick upon him. And there little
Gertrude seemed first to accept him. She whispered to her papa, as they
stood up to go away, that it was very good in God Almighty to have sent
Harry home; and, as they left the cloister, she slipped into Harry's
hand a daisy from the grave, such a gift as she had never carried to any
one else, save her father and Margaret, and she shrank no longer from
being lifted up in his arms, and carried home through the twilight
street.

He hurried into the drawing-room, and was heard declaring that all was
right, for Margaret was on the sofa; but he stopped short, grieved at
her altered looks. She smiled as he stooped to kiss her, and then made
him stand erect, and measure himself against Norman, whose height he
had almost reached. The little curly midshipman had come back, as nurse
said
his rosy cheeks, brown and ruddy, and
his countenance
said Margaret
said his father
Dr. May walked backwards to look at them. It was good to see his face
said Harry, after nodding with
satisfaction, as they all took their wonted places
exclaimed Richard
said Ethel
said Blanche
said little Gertrude, who had established herself on his knee
was the general cry; but she became shy, and
would not answer more than by a whisper about Aubrey, who indignantly
declared that he never said so, only Gertrude was so foolish that she
did not know Harry from Ulysses
said Ethel
said Mary, running to the side-table
said Harry
said Norman
and very reluctant he looked
asked Blanche, in her
would-be grown-up manner
said Dr. May
cried Harry indignantly
said Harry
There was a great outcry of delight
The words were not out of his mouth before the second post was brought
in, and there were two letters from New Zealand! What would they not
have been yesterday? Harry would have burned his own, but the long
closely-written sheets were eagerly seized, as, affording the best hope
of understanding his adventures, as it had been written at intervals
from Auckland, and the papers, passing from one to the other, formed the
text for interrogations on further details, though much more was gleaned
incidentally in tete-a-tetes, by Margaret, Norman, or his father, and no
one person ever heard the whole connectedly from Harry himself
asked Dr. May, looking
up from the letter
said Harry
Margaret's eyes were upon him, and her lips formed the question
cried Blanche
said Harry.

Ethel thought there was more in that answer than met the ear, and that
Harry, at least, had thought of the powder to-night at church
As to telling how he felt when he saw the good ship Alcestis blown to
fragments, that was past Harry, and all but Blanche were wise enough not
to ask. She had by way of answer
Nor was Harry willing to dwell on the subsequent days, when the
unclouded sun had been a cruel foe; and the insufficient stores of food
and water did, indeed, sustain life, but a life of extreme suffering.
What he told was of the kindness that strove to save him, as the
youngest, from all that could be spared him
cried Dr. May
asked Blanche
was the answer
said Harry
Mary could not help coming round to kiss him, as if eyes alone were not
enough to satisfy her that here he was.

Dr. May shuddered, and went on reading, and Margaret drew Harry down to
her, and once more by looks craved for more minute tidings
murmured Harry
The tone of the don't, the reddening cheek, liquid eye, and heaving
chest, told enough of what the lieutenant had been to one, at least, of
the desolate boat's crew
exclaimed Mary
said Harry
repeated Mary, in an agony
The vessel proved to be an American whaler, which had just parted with
her cargo to a homeward bound ship, and was going to refit, and take in
provisions and water at one of the Milanesian islands, before returning
for further captures. The master was a man of the shrewd, hard
money-making cast; but, at the price of Mr. Ernescliffe's chronometer,
and of the services of the sailors, he undertook to convey them where
they might fall in with packets bound for Australia.

The distressed Alcestes at first thought themselves in paradise, but
the vessel, built with no view, save to whales, and, with a considerable
reminiscence of the blubber lately parted with, proved no wholesome
abode, when overcrowded, and in the tropics! Mr. Ernescliffe's science,
resolution, and constancy, had saved his men so far; but with the need
for exertion his powers gave way, and he fell a prey to a return of the
fever which had been his introduction to Dr. May
said Harry
said Margaret
exclaimed Blanche
said Harry
The Samoans, it was further explained, are the inhabitants of the
Navigator Islands, who, having been converted by the Church Missionary
Society, have sent out great numbers of most active and admirable
teachers among the scattered islands, braving martyrdom and disease,
never shrinking from their work, and, by teaching and example, preparing
the way for fuller doctrine than they can yet impart. A station of these
devoted men had for some years been settled in this island, and had
since been visited by the missions of Newcastle and New Zealand. The
young chief, whom Harry called David, and another youth, had spent two
summers under instruction at New Zealand, and had been baptised. They
were spending the colder part of the year at home, and hoped shortly to
be called for by the mission-ship to return, and resume their course of
instruction.

Owen had come to an understanding with the chief and the Samoans, and
had decided on landing his lieutenant, and it was accordingly done, with
very little consciousness on the patient's part. Black figures, with
woolly mop-heads, and sometimes decorated with whitewash of lime,
crowded round to assist in the transport of the sick man through the
surf; and David himself, in a white European garb, met his guests,
with dignified manners that would have suited a prince of any land, and
conducted them through the grove of palms, interspersed with white huts,
to a beautiful house consisting of a central room, with many others
opening from it, floored with white coral lime, and lined with soft
shining mats of Samoan manufacture. This, Harry learned, had been
erected by them in hopes of an English missionary taking up his abode
amongst them.

They were a kindly people, and had shown hospitality to other
Englishmen, who had less appreciated it than these young officers
could. They lavished every kindness in their power upon them, and
Mr. Ernescliffe, at first, revived so much, that he seemed likely to
recover.

But the ship had completed her repairs, and was ready to sail. The two
midshipmen thought it would be certain death to their lieutenant to
bring him back to such an atmosphere
continued Harry's letter
to his father
There was a great
tear-blot just here
The narrative broke off here, but had been subsequently resumed
There was another break here, and the story was continued
But Harry's letter could not tell what he confessed, one night, to his
father, the next time he was out with him by starlight, how desolate he
had been, and how he had yearned after his home, and, one evening, he
had been utterly overcome by illness and loneliness, and had cried most
bitterly and uncontrollably; and, though Jennings thought it was for
his friend's death, it really was homesickness, and the thought of his
father and Mary. Jennings had helped him out to the entrance of the
hut, that the cool night air might refresh his burning brow. Orion shone
clear and bright, and brought back the night when they had chosen the
starry hunter as his friend
he said
At last, Harry's Black Prince had hurried into the hut with the tidings
that his English father's ship was in the bay, and soon English voices
again sounded in his ears, bringing the forlorn boy such warmth of
kindness that he could hardly believe himself a mere stranger. If Alan
could but have shared the joy with him!

He was carried down to the boat in the cool of the evening, and paused
on the way, for a last farewell to the lonely grave under the palm
tree-one of the many sailors' graves scattered from the tropics to
the poles, and which might be the first seed in a "God's acre" to that
island, becoming what the graves of holy men of old are to us.

A short space more of kind care from his new friends and his Christian
chief, and Harry awoke from a feverish doze at sounds that seemed so
like a dream of home, that he was unwilling to break them by rousing
himself; but they approved themselves as real, and he found himself in
the embrace of his mother's sister.

And here Mrs. Arnott's story began, of the note that reached her in the
early morning with tidings that her nephew had been picked up by the
mission-ship, and how she and her husband had hastened at once on board
she wrote
Harry's troubles were all over from that time. He had thenceforth to
recover under his aunt's motherly care, while talking endlessly over the
home that she loved almost as well as he did. He was well more quickly
than she had ventured to hope, and nothing could check his impatience to
reach his home, not even the hopes of having his aunt for a companion.
The very happiness he enjoyed with her only made him long the more
ardently to be with his own family; and he had taken his leave of her,
and of his dear David, and sailed by the first packet leaving Auckland
said Harry.

It was late when the elders had finished all that was to be heard at
present, and the clock reminded them that they must part
sighed Margaret
exclaimed Margaret
Richard, who had been making friends with Jennings, whenever he had not
been needed by his sisters that afternoon, went to fetch him from the
kitchen, where all the servants, and all their particular friends,
were listening to the yarn that made them hold their heads higher, as
belonging to Master Harry.

Harry stepped forward, met Jennings, and said, aside
Dr. May had already seen the sailor, but he could not help addressing
him again
said Margaret breathlessly, as the embarrassed
sailor stood, sleeking down his hair; and, when he had advanced to her
couch, she looked up in his face, and put her hand into his great brown
one
she said
cried Jennings, almost crying, and looking round for
Harry, as a sort of protector
as if Harry had
been making an accusation against him
said Margaret
began Dr. May
said Jennings hastily
said Richard, coming near
The sailor shook his head, and was retreating, but Margaret signed him
to come near again, and grasped his hand. Harry followed him out of the
room, to arrange their journey, and presently returned
Harry had not intended Margaret to hear, but she caught the words,
smiled radiantly, and whispered
Margaret had borne the meeting much too well for her own good, and a
wakeful night of palpitation was the consequence; but she would not
allow any one to take it to heart, and declared that she should be ready
to enjoy Harry by the time he should return, and meantime, she should
dwell on the delight of his meeting Flora.

No one had rested too soundly that night, and Dr. May had not been
able to help looking in at his sleeping boy at five in the morning,
to certify himself that he had not only figured his present bliss to
himself, in his ten minutes' dream. And looking in again at half-past
seven, he found Harry half dressed, with his arm round Mary; laughing,
almost sobbing, over the treasures in his cupboard, which he had newly
discovered in their fresh order.

Dr. May looked like a new man that morning, with his brightened eye and
bearing, as if there were a well-spring of joy within him, ready to brim
over at once in tear and in smile, and finding an outlet in the praise
and thanksgiving that his spirit chanted, and his face expressed, and in
that sunny genial benevolence that must make all share his joy.

He was going to run over half the town -- every one would like to hear
it from him; Ethel and Mary must go to the rest -- the old women in the
almshouses, where lived an old cook who used to be fond of Harry -- they
should have a feast; all who were well enough in the hospital should
have a tea-drinking; Dr. Hoxton had already granted a holiday to the
school; every boy with whom they had any connection should come to
dinner, and Edward Anderson should be asked to meet Harry on his return,
because, poor fellow, he was so improved.

Dr. May was in such a transport of kind-hearted schemes, that he was
not easily made to hear that Harry had not a sixpence wherewith to reach
London.

Ethel, meanwhile, was standing beside her brother tendering to him some
gold, as his last quarter
said Harry
said her father
Every one could have envied Norman, for travelling to London with Harry,
but that he must proceed to Oxford in two days, when Harry would return
to them. The station-master, thinking he could not do enough for the
returned mariner, put the two brothers into the coupe, as if they had
been a bridal couple, and they were very glad of the privacy, having, as
yet, hardly spoken to each other, when Harry's attention was dispersed
among so many.

Norman asked many questions about the mission work in the southern
hemisphere, and ended by telling his brother of his design, which met
with Harry's hearty approbation
said Norman
exclaimed Harry
Thus broadly and boyishly did he plunge into that most tender subject,
making his brother start and wince, as if he had touched a wound
he cried, almost angrily
said Norman shortly
said Harry indignantly
said Norman, anxious to silence him
cried the volatile sailor
and he laughed heartily over that
adventure, ending, however, with a sigh, as he said
said Norman
said Harry to himself
Norman, meanwhile, as the train sped over roofs, and among chimneys, was
reproaching himself for running into the fascination of her presence,
and then recollecting that her situation, as well as his destiny, both
guaranteed that they could meet only as friendly connections.

No carriage awaited them at the station, which surprised Norman, till
he recollected that the horses had probably been out all day, and it was
eight o'clock. Going to Park Lane in a cab, the brothers were further
surprised to find themselves evidently not expected. The butler came to
speak to them, saying that Mr. and Mrs. Rivers were gone out to dinner,
but would return, probably, at about eleven o'clock. He conducted
them upstairs, Harry following his brother, in towering vexation and
disappointment, trying to make him turn to hear that they would go
directly -- home -- to Eton -- anywhere -- why would he go in at all?

The door was opened, Mr. May was announced, and they were in a
silk-lined boudoir, where a little slender figure in black started up,
and came forward with outstretched hand
she cried
As she spoke, Meta had given her hand to Harry, as it was evidently
expected; she raised her eyes to his face, and said, smiling' and
blushing
said Norman
Laughing, glancing, and casting down her eyes, she raised them with a
sudden start of joy, but colouring more deeply, said
said Norman
she answered, faltering; but perceiving how bright
were the looks of both
said both brothers with one voice. She clasped her hands,
absolutely bounded with transport, then grasped both Harry's hands,
and then Norman's, her whole countenance radiant with joy and sympathy
beyond expression
was her first exclamation
She looked up at Norman, and came nearer
she asked softly, and trembling
was the low answer, which Harry could not bear to hear, and
therefore walked to the window
as he signed
towards his brother. And as Harry continued to gaze out on the stars of
gas on the opposite side of the park, he was able to add a few of the
particulars.

Meta's eyes glistened with tears, as she said
said Harry, coming back to them
said Meta
A refection of tea and cold meat was preferred, and in her own pretty
manner Meta lavished her welcomes, trying to cover any pain given by
Flora's neglect
asked Harry, looking round on the beautifully
furnished apartment, which, to many eyes besides those fresh from a
Milanesian hut, might have seemed a paradise of luxurious ease
said Meta
merrily
Meta laughed heartily
said Harry
said Meta
exclaimed Harry
cried Harry, with a gesture of oppression
asked Harry
said
Meta, glancing at her deep mourning
said Meta
amiably responded Harry
Meta was well read in Australasian literature, and drew out a great deal
more information from Harry than Norman had yet heard. She made him talk
about the Maori pah near his uncle's farm, where the Sunday services
were conducted by an old gentleman tattooed elegantly in the face, but
dressed like an English clergyman; and tell of his aunt's troubles about
the younger generation, whom their elders, though Christians themselves,
could not educate, and who she feared would relapse into heathenism, for
want of instruction, though with excellent dispositions
exclaimed Meta to
Norman, who had sat silently listening.

The sound of the door bell was the first intimation that Harry's
histories had occupied them until long past twelve o'clock
cried Meta, springing forward, as if intending to meet
Flora with the tidings, but checking herself, as if she ought not to
be the first. There was a pause. Flora was hearing downstairs that Mr.
Norman May and another gentleman had arrived, and, while vexed at her
own omission, and annoyed at Norman's bringing friends without waiting
for permission, she was yet prepared to be courteous and amiable. She
entered in her rich black watered silk, deeply trimmed with lace,
and with silver ornaments in her dark hair, so graceful and
distinguished-looking, that Harry stood suspended, hesitating, for an
instant, whether he beheld his own sister, especially as she made a
dignified inclination towards him, offering her hand to Norman, as she
said
But there she broke off, exclaiming
said the sailor, who had felt at home with her at
the first word, and she flew into his great rough arms
cried she,
as her husband stood astonished; and, springing towards him, she put
Harry's hand into his
slowly pronounced George, as he instinctively
gave the grasp of greeting
as the matter dawned fully on him, and he became eager
asked Flora
said Harry
The usual questions and their sad answers ensued, and while Flora talked
to Harry, fondly holding his hand, Norman and Meta explained the history
to George, who no sooner comprehended it, that he opined it must have
been a horrid nuisance, and that Harry was a gallant fellow; then
striking him over the shoulder, welcomed him home with all his kind
heart, told him he was proud to receive him, and falling into a state of
rapturous hospitality, rang the bell, and wanted to order all sorts
of eatables and drinkables, but was sadly baffled to find him already
satisfied.

There was more open joy than even at home, and Flora was supremely happy
as she sat between her brothers, listening and inquiring till far past
one o'clock, when she perceived poor George dozing off, awakened every
now and then by a great nod, and casting a wishful glance of resigned
remonstrance, as if to appeal against sitting up all night.

The meeting at breakfast was a renewal of pleasure. Flora was proud and
happy in showing off her little girl, a model baby, as she called her,
a perfect doll for quietness, so that she could be brought in at family
prayers
said Flora
said George.

The long file of servants marched in, George read sonorously, and Flora
rose from her knees, highly satisfied at the impression produced upon
her brothers
she said
said Norman, who thought her more inanimate and like
a pretty little waxen toy, than when he had last seen her
asked Norman
George began a conversation with Harry on nautical matters, and Norman
tried to discover how Meta liked the yachting project, and found her
prepared to think it charming. Hopes were expressed that Harry might be
at Portsmouth, and a quantity of gay scheming ensued, with reiterations
of the name of Walkinghame; while Norman had a sense of being wrapped
in some gray mist, excluding him from participation in their enjoyments,
and condemned his own temper as frivolous for being thus excited to
discontent.

Presently, he heard George insisting that he and Harry should return in
time for the evening party; and, on beginning to refuse, was amazed to
find Harry's only objection was on the score of lack of uniform
said Flora
continued Harry
said Flora
Norman, however, took a private opportunity of asking Harry if he was
aware of what he was undertaking, and what kind of people they should
meet
said Harry, as if
all society, provided it was not cannibal, were alike to him
said Harry
Since Harry was impervious to shyness, Norman submitted, and George took
them to a wonder-worker in cloth, who undertook that full equipments
should await the young gentleman. Harry next despatched his business at
the Admiralty, and was made very happy by tidings of his friend Owen's
safe arrival in America.

Thence the brothers went to Eton, where home letters had been more
regarded; and Dr. May having written to secure a holiday for the objects
of their visit, they were met at the station by the two boys. Hector's
red face and prominent light eyebrows were instantly recognised; but, as
to Tom, Harry could hardly believe that the little, dusty, round-backed
grub be had left had been transformed into the well-made gentlemanlike
lad before him, peculiarly trim and accurate in dress, even to the
extent of as much foppery as Eton taste permitted.

Ten minutes had not passed before Tom, taking a survey of the newcomer,
began to exclaim at Norman, for letting him go about such a figure; and,
before they knew what was doing, they had all been conducted into the
shop of the
Laughing and
good-natured, Harry believed his hair was
allowed himself
to be seated, and to be divested of a huge superfluous mass of sun-dried
curls, which Tom, particularly resenting that
kept on
taking up, and unrolling from their tight rings, to measure the number
of inches
said he, as they issued from the shop
said Harry, much amused
said Tom, to whom it was no laughing matter
exclaimed Hector
said Norman
Tom muttered that he only wanted Harry to be fit to be seen by the
fellows
cried Hector
There poor Hector broke off. If his own only brother had been walking
beside him, how would he not have felt? They had reached their tutor's
house, and, opening his own door, he made an imploring sign to Harry
to enter with him. On the table lay a letter from Margaret, and another
which Harry had written to him from Auckland
he said
And he established himself, with his face hidden on the table,
uttering nothing, except
whenever Harry's voice failed in the
narration. When something was said of
he burst out
said Harry
said Harry
cried Harry angrily
said the heir of Maplewood disconsolately
said Harry
cried Hector
cried Hector
Hector was quite inspirited and ready to return to the others, but Harry
paused to express a hope that he did not let Tom make such a fool of
himself as he had done to-day
said Hector
said Hector philosophically.

Norman was meantime taking Tom to task for these same airs, and, hearing
it was from the desire to see his brother respectable -- Stoneborough men
never cared for what they looked like, and he must have Harry do himself
credit
said Norman
For that black spot in his life had never passed out of the lad's
memory, and it might be from the lurking want of self-respect that there
was about him so much of self-assertion, in attention to trifles. He
was very reserved, and no one except Norman had ever found the way to
anything like confidence, and Norman had vexed him by the proposal he
had made in the holidays.

He made no answer, but stood looking at Norman with an odd undecided
gaze
said Norman, half fearing "that" might not
be absolutely over
said Tom
replied Norman
cried
Tom
said Norman
said Tom
Tom put his arm on Norman's
shoulder, and looked solicitously at him -- demonstrations of affection
very rare with him
said Tom, rubbing some invisible dust from his coat sleeve
Tom gave a great sigh
he said
said Tom
Promising! it must be confessed!

Perhaps Tom had expected Norman to brighten at once, but it was a
fallacious hope. The gaining his point involved no pleasant prospect,
and his young brother's moody devotion to him suggested scruples whether
he ought to exact the sacrifice, though, in his own mind, convinced
that it was Tom's vocation; and knowing that would give him many of the
advantages of an eldest son.

Eton fully justified Hector's declaration that it would not regard the
cut of Harry's coat. The hero of a lost ship and savage isle was the
object of universal admiration and curiosity, and inestimable were the
favours conferred by Hector and Tom in giving introductions to him, till
he had shaken hands with half the school, and departed amid deafening
cheers.

In spite of Harry, the day had been long and heavy to Norman, and though
he chid himself for his depression, he shrank from the sight of Meta and
Sir Henry Walkinghame together, and was ready to plead an aching head as
an excuse for not appearing at the evening party; but, besides that this
might attract notice, he thought himself bound to take care of Harry in
so new a world, where the boy must be at a great loss
cried a voice at his door
Norman heard the light foot scampering downstairs, and prepared to
follow, to assume the protection of him.

Music sounded as Norman left his room, and he turned aside to avoid the
stream of company flowing up the flower-decked stairs, and made his way
into the rooms through Flora's boudoir. He was almost dazzled by the
bright lights, and the gay murmurs of the brilliant throng. Young ladies
with flowers and velvet streamers down their backs, old ladies portly
and bejewelled, gentlemen looking civil, abounded wherever he turned his
eyes. He could see Flora's graceful head bending as she received guest
after guest, and the smile with which she answered congratulations on
her brother's return; but Harry he did not so quickly perceive, and he
was trying to discover in what corner he might have hidden himself, when
Meta stood beside him, asking whether their Eton journey had prospered,
and how poor Hector was feeling at Harry's return
asked Norman
said Meta, smiling
Meta might well say so. The trim, well-knit, broad-chested form, the
rosy embrowned honest face, the shining light-brown curly locks, the
dancing well-opened blue eyes, and merry hearty smile showed to the best
advantage, in array that even Tom would not have spurned, put on with
naval neatness; and his attitude and manner were so full of manly ease,
that it was no wonder that every eye rested on him with pleasure. Norman
smiled at his own mistake, and asked who were the lady and gentleman
conversing with him. Meta mentioned one of the most distinguished of
English names, and shared his amusement in seeing Harry talking to
them with the same frank unembarrassed ease as when he had that morning
shaken hands with their son, in the capacity of Hector Ernescliffe's
fag. No one present inspired him with a tithe of the awe he felt for a
post-captain -- it was simply a pleasant assembly of good-natured folks,
glad to welcome home a battered sailor, and of pretty girls, for whom he
had a sailor's admiration, but without forwardness or presumption -- all
in happy grateful simplicity
said Flora to him
was Harry's interjection; and while she was looking round for a
partner to whom to present him, he had turned to the young daughter of
his new acquaintance, and had her on his arm, unconscious that George
had been making his way to her.

Flora was somewhat uneasy, but the mother was looking on smiling, and
expressed her delight in the young midshipman; and Mrs. Rivers, while
listening gladly to his praises, watched heedfully, and was reassured
to see that dancing was as natural to him as everything else; his steps
were light as a feather, his movement all freedom and joy, without being
boisterous, and his boyish chivalry as pretty a sight as any one could
wish to see.

If the rest of the world enjoyed their dances a quarter as much as did
they were enviable people, and he contributed not a little
to their pleasure, if merely by the sight of his blithe freshness and
spirited simplicity, as well as the general sympathy with his sister's
joy, and the interest in his adventures. He would have been a general
favourite, if he had been far less personally engaging; as it was, every
young lady was in raptures at dancing with him, and he did his best to
dance with them all; and to try to stir up Norman, who, after Meta
had been obliged to leave him, and go to act her share of the part of
hostess, had disposed of himself against a wall, where he might live out
the night
said Norman, beginning to apprehend that he
might be dragged off, as often he had been to cricket or football, and
by much the same means
said the
ubiquitous Flora
cried Harry
Before Norman could protest, Harry had flown off
asked Norman
Harry returning, administered his ice, and then darted off to excuse
himself to his partner, by explanations about his brother, whom
everybody must have heard of, as he was the cleverest fellow living, and
had written the best prize poem ever heard at Oxford. He firmly believed
Norman a much greater lion than himself.

Norman was forced to leave his friendly corner to dispose of the glass
of his ice, and thus encountered Miss Rivers, of whom Sir Henry was
asking questions about a beautiful collection of cameos, which Flora had
laid out as a company trap
said Meta
Having set the two gentlemen to discuss them, she glided away on fresh
hospitable duties, while Norman repeated the comments that he had so
enjoyed hearing from poor Mr. Rivers, hoping he was, at least, sparing
Meta some pain, and wondering that Flora should have risked hurting her
feelings by exposing these treasures to the general gaze.

If Norman were wearied by Sir Henry, it was his own fault, for the
baronet was a very agreeable person, who thought a first-class man worth
cultivation, so that the last half-hour might have compensated for all
the rest, if conversation were always the test
cried Harry, coming up to her
said Meta, smiling
said Meta
exclaimed Harry, bewitched by the beaming congratulation
of her look
repeated Meta
Away ran Harry, and presently the brothers and sisters gathered round
the fire -- George declaring that he was glad that nuisance was so well
over, and Harry exclaiming
This result of Harry's successful debut in high life struck his sister
and Norman as so absurd that both laughed
asked Harry
said Norman
said Harry
said Flora, patting him gaily
Norman exerted himself to
say
said Flora
Let none, henceforward, shrink from daring dreams,
    For earnest hearts shall find their dreams fulfilled.-- FOUQUE
began Harry, as he came down to breakfast
asked Flora
Flora supposed he meant a directory; and all possible South American
merchants having been overlooked, and the Mackintoshes selected, he next
required a chart of London, and wanted to attempt self-navigation, but
was forced to accept of George's brougham and escort; Flora would not
trust him otherwise; and Norman was obliged to go to Oxford at once,
hurrying off to his train before breakfast was over.

Flora might have trusted Harry alone. George contributed no more than
the dignity of his presence; and, indeed, would have resigned the
pursuit at the first blunder about the firm; and still more when the
right one had been found, but the partner proved crusty, and would not
believe that any such document was in his hands. George was consenting
to let it rest till Mr. Mackintosh could be written to; but Harry,
outrunning his management, and regardless of rebuffs, fairly teased the
old gentleman into a search, as the only means of getting rid of the
troublesome sailor.

In the midst of George's civil regrets at the fruitless trouble they
were causing, forth came a bundle of papers, and forth from the bundle
fell a packet, on which Harry pounced as he read
and, in the corner, the executors' names, Captain John
Gordon, of H. M. S. Alcestis; and Richard May, Esquire, M. D., Market
Stoneborough.

As if in revenge, the prudent merchant would not be induced to entrust
him with the document, saying he could not give it up till he had heard
from the executors, and had been certified of the death of the testator.
He withstood both the angry gentlemen, who finally departed in a state
of great resentment -- Harry declaring that the old land-lubber would
not believe that he was his own father's son; and Mr. Rivers, no less
incensed, that the House of Commons had been insulted in his person,
because he did not carry all before him.

Flora laughed at their story, and told them that she suspected that the
old gentleman was in the right; and she laid plans for having Harry to
teach them yachting at Ryde, while Harry declared he would have nothing
to do with such trumpery.

Harry found his home in a sort of agony of expectation, for his
non-arrival at the time expected had made his first appearance seem like
an unsubstantial illusion, though Dr. May, or Mary and Aubrey, had been
at the station at the coming in of each train. Margaret had recovered
the effects of the first shock, and the welcome was far more joyous than
the first had been, with the mixed sensations that were now composed,
and showed little, outwardly, but gladness.

Dr. May took Flora's view of the case, and declared that, if Harry
had brought home the will, he should not have opened it without his
co-executor. So he wrote to the captain, while Harry made the most of
his time in learning his sisters over again. He spent a short time alone
with Margaret every morning, patiently and gently allowing himself to
be recalled to the sad recollections that were all the world to her.
He kept Ethel and Mary merry with his droll desultory comments; he made
Blanche keep up her dancing; and taught Gertrude to be a thorough little
romp. As to Dr. May, his patients never were so well or so cheerful,
till Dr. Spencer and Ethel suspected that the very sight of his looks
brightened them -- how could they help it? Dr. Spencer was as happy as a
king in seeing his friend freed from the heavy weight on his spirits;
and, truly, it was goodly to watch his perfect look of content, as he
leaned on his lion-faced boy's arm, and walked down to the minster,
whither it seemed to have become possible to go on most evenings. Good
Dr. May was no musician, but Mr. Wilmot could not regret certain tones
that now and then burst out in the chanting, from the very bottom of a
heart that assuredly sang with the full melody of thankfulness, whatever
the voice might do.

Captain Gordon not only wrote but came to Stoneborough, whence Harry was
to go with him to the court-martial at Portsmouth.

The girls wondered that, after writing with so much warmth and
affection, both of and to Harry, he met him without any demonstration of
feeling; and his short peremptory manner removed all surprise that poor
Hector had been so forlorn with him at Maplewood, and turned, with all
his heart, to Dr. May. They were especially impressed at the immediate
subsidence of all Harry's noise and nonsense, as if the drawing-room had
been the quarter-deck of the Alcestis
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Margaret
said
Margaret, catching her dress nervously, as she was moving away
said Margaret,
almost smiling, and looking as if she was putting a restraint on
something she wished to say
Ethel went down to the difficult task of hearing Aubrey's lessons, while
Harry was pretending to write to Mrs. Arnott, but, in reality, teaching
Gertrude the parts of a ship, occasionally acting mast, for her to
climb.

By and by Dr. May came in
he said
said Ethel
said Harry
said Dr. May
No need to bid Ethel listen. She gave a sort of leap in her chair, then
looked almost ready to faint
said her father
Ethel drew his arm round her, and leaned against him
she repeated, as if questioning the drift of the words
cried Harry
said Dr. May
exclaimed Ethel
said Dr. May
asked Harry
cried Harry
With all Ethel's reputation for bluntness, it was remarkable how her
force of character made her always called for whenever there was the
least dread of a scene.

She turned abruptly from Harry; and, going outside the window, tried
to realise and comprehend the tidings, but all she could have time to
discover was that Alan's memory was dearer to her than ever, and she was
obliged to hasten upstairs.

Her father quitted the room by one door, as she entered by the other;
she believed that it was to hide his emotion, but Margaret's fair wan
face was beaming with the sweetest of congratulating smiles
she said, as Ethel came in
said Ethel, putting her hands to her brow
exclaimed Margaret, as if disappointed
said Ethel, with quivering lip
repeated Ethel
Margaret almost grudged the lack of the girlish outbreak of rejoicing
which would once have forgotten everything in the ecstasy of the
fulfilled vision. It did not seem to be what Alan had intended; he had
figured to himself unmixed joy, and she wanted to see it, and something
of the wayward impatience of weakness throbbed at her heart, as Ethel
paced the room, and disappeared in her own curtained recess.

Presently she came back saying
said Margaret
said Ethel sadly
said Margaret
her eyes lighted up
Richard's tap interrupted them
The deepened colour in his cheek betrayed how much he felt, as
he cast an anxious glance towards Margaret -- an inquiring one on Ethel
was all Ethel could say
said Richard, approaching
Margaret smiled in a peculiar way
And Ethel knew that the church was his token to Margaret, and
that any "fading frail memorial" would have lessened the force of the
signification.

Ethel could speak better to her brother than to her sister
she cried, and a most unusual thing with
both, she flung her arms round his neck
said Richard
said Margaret, as Ethel was about to disclaim
said Ethel, half crying; then, as if unable to stay, she
exclaimed with a sort of petulance
And away she rushed to the wayfaring dust of her life of labour, to find
Aubrey and Daisy half-way up the tulip tree, and Harry mischievously
unwilling to help them down again, assuring her that such news deserved
a holiday, and that she was growing a worse tartar than Miss Winter. She
had better let the poor children alone, put on her bonnet, and come with
him to tell Mr. Wilmot.

Whereat Ethel was demurring, when Dr. May came forth, and declared he
should take her himself.

Poor Mr. Wilmot laboured under a great burden of gratitude, which no one
would receive from him. Dr. May and Ethel repudiated thanks almost with
terror; and, when he tried them with the captain, he found very doubtful
approval of the whole measure, so that Harry alone was a ready acceptant
of a full meed of acknowledgments for his gallant extraction of the
will.

No one was more obliged to him than Hector Ernescliffe, who wrote to
Margaret that it would be very jolly to come home again, and that he
was delighted that the captain could not hinder either that or Cocksmoor
Church
Of which oracular sentence, Margaret
could make nothing.

The house of May felt more at their ease when the uncongenial captain
had departed, although he carried off Harry with him. There was the
better opportunity for a tea-drinking consultation with Dr. Spencer
and Mr. Wilmot, when Margaret lay on her sofa, looking better than for
months past, and taking the keenest interest in every arrangement.

Dr. Spencer, whose bright eyes glittered at every mention of the
subject, assumed that he was to be the architect, while Dr. May was
assuring him that it was a maxim that no one unpaid could be trusted;
and when he talked of beautiful German churches with pierced spires,
declared that the building must not make too large a hole in the twenty
thousand, at the expense of future curates, because Richard was the
first
said Dr. Spencer
said Mr. Wilmot
said Dr. May
said Dr. Spencer
said Ethel
said Mr. Wilmot
said Dr. May, cutting
short several further attacks which he saw impending
Poor Dr. May, he knew it was inevitable and quite right, but his
affectionate heart and spirit of perpetuity, which had an association
connected with every marble cloud, green baize pew, and square-headed
panel, anticipated tortures in the general sweep, for which his
ecclesiastical taste and sense of propriety would not soon compensate.

Margaret spared his feelings by bringing the Cocksmoor subject back
again; Dr. Spencer seemed to comprehend the ardour with which she
pressed it on, as if it were very near her heart that there should be no
delay. He said he could almost promise her that the first stone should
be laid before the end of the summer, and she thanked him in her own
warm sweet way, hoping that it would be while Hector and Harry were at
home.

Harry soon returned, having gone through the court-martial with the
utmost credit, been patronised by Captain Gordon in an unheard-of
manner, asked to dine with the admiral, and promised to be quickly
afloat again. Ere many days had passed, he was appointed to one of the
finest vessels in the fleet, commanded by a captain to whom Captain
Gordon had introduced him, and who
as he said. The Bucephalus, now the object of his pride, was
refitting, and his sisters hoped to see a good deal of him before he
should again sail. Besides, Flora would be at Ryde before the end of
July.

It was singular that Ethel's vision should have been fulfilled
simultaneously with Flora's having obtained a position so far beyond
what could have been anticipated.

She was evidently extremely happy and valuable, much admired and
respected, and with full exercise for the energy and cleverness, which
were never more gratified than by finding scope for action. Her husband
was devotedly attached to her, and was entirely managed by her, and
though her good judgment kept her from appearing visibly in matters not
pertaining to her own sphere, she was, in fact, his understanding. She
read, listened, and thought for him, imbued him with her own views, and
composed his letters for him; ruling his affairs, both political and
private, and undeniably making him fill a position which, without her,
he would have left vacant; nor was there any doubt that he was far
happier for finding himself of consequence, and being no longer left
a charge upon his own hands. He seemed fully to suffice to her as
a companion, although she was so far superior in power; for it was,
perhaps, her nature to love best that which depended upon her, and gave
her a sense of exercising protection; as she had always loved Margaret
better than Ethel
So every one felt, and her
youthful beauty and success in the fashionable world made her qualities,
as a wife and mistress of a household, the more appreciated. She never
set aside her religious habits or principles, was an active member
of various charitable associations, and found her experience of the
Stoneborough Ladies' Committee applicable among far greater names.
Indeed, Lady Leonora thought dear Flora Rivers's only fault, her
over-strictness, which encouraged Meta in the same, but there were
points that Flora could not have yielded on any account, without failing
in her own eyes.

She made time for everything, and though, between business and fashion,
she seemed to undertake more than mortal could accomplish, it was all
effected, and excellently. She did, indeed, sigh over the briefness of
the time that she could bestow on her child or on home correspondence,
and declared that she should rejoice in rest; but, at the same time, her
achievements were a positive pleasure to her.

Meta, in the meantime, had been living passively on the most
affectionate terms with her brother and sister, and though often
secretly yearning after the dear old father, whose darling she had
been, and longing for power of usefulness, she took it on trust that her
present lot had been ordered for her, and was thankful, like the bird
of Dr. May's fable, for the pleasures in her path -- culling sweet morals,
and precious thoughts out of book, painting or concert, occasions for
Christian charities in each courtesy of society, and opportunities
for cheerful self-denial and submission, whenever any little wish was
thwarted.

So Norman said she had turned into a fine lady! It was a sudden and
surprising intimation, and made a change in the usually bright and
calm current of her thoughts. She was not aware that there had been any
alteration in herself, and it was a revelation that set her to examine
where she had changed -- poor little thing! She was not angry, she did
not resent the charge, she took it for granted that, coming from such a
source, it must be true and reasonable -- and what did it mean? Did they
think her too gay, or neglectful of old friends? What had they been
saying to Harry about her
thought Meta
So meditated Meta, as she copied one of her own drawings of the Grange,
for her dear old governess, Mrs. Larpent, while each line and tint
recalled the comments of her fond amateur father, and the scenery
carried her home, in spite of the street sounds, and the scratching of
Flora's pen, coursing over note-paper. Presently Sir Henry Walkinghame
called, bringing a beautiful bouquet
cried Meta
She began at once to arrange the flowers, a task that seemed what she
was born for, and the choice roses and geraniums acquired fresh grace
as she placed them in the slender glasses and classic vases; but
Flora's discerning eyes perceived some mortification on the part of
the gentleman, and, on his departure, playfully reproached Meta for
ingratitude
said Flora, kissing her earnest forehead,
ringing the bell, and gathering up her papers, as she walked out of the
room, and gave her notes to the servant
Instances of his complaisance towards herself rose before her, so as to
excite some warmth and gratitude. Her lonely heart thrilled at the idea
of being again the best beloved, and her energetic spirit bounded at the
thought of being no longer condemned to a life of idle ease. Still it
was too new a light to her to be readily accepted, after she had looked
on him so long, merely as a familiar of the house, attentive to her,
because she fell to his share, when Flora was occupied. She liked him,
decidedly; she could possibly do more; but she was far more inclined
to dread, than to desire, any disturbance of their present terms of
intercourse
thought she
Catching Flora was not the easiest thing in the world, among her
multifarious occupations; but Meta was not the damsel to lose an
opportunity for want of decision.

Flora saw what was coming, and was annoyed with herself for having given
the alarm; but, after all, it must have come some time or other, though
she had rather that Meta had been more involved first.

It should be premised that Mrs. Rivers had no notion of the degree of
attachment felt by her brother for Meta; she only knew that Lady Leonora
had a general distrust of her family, and she felt it a point of
honour to promote no dangerous meetings, and to encourage Sir Henry -- a
connection who would be most valuable, both as conferring importance
upon George in the county, and as being himself related to persons of
high influence, whose interest might push on her brothers. Preferment
for Richard; promotion for Harry; nay, diplomatic appointments for
Tom, came floating before her imagination, even while she smiled at her
Alnaschar visions.

But the tone of Meta, as she drew her almost forcibly into her room,
showed her that she had given a great shock to her basket
asked Flora, not inclined to spare her blushes
said Meta
said Flora, in
commiseration
began Meta; but, from the colour of
her cheek and the timid resolution of her tone, Flora thought it safest
not to hear the interrogation, and answered
Flora had never gone so near an untruth, as when she led Meta to believe
this was the sole reason. But, after all, what did Flora herself know to
the contrary?

Meta recovered her ease, and Flora marked, as weeks passed on, that she
grew more accustomed to Sir Henry's attentions. A little while, and she
would find herself so far bound by the encouragement she had given, that
she could not reject him
said George
said
Flora
The lurking conviction was that one confidential talk with Ethel
would cause the humming-bird to break the toils that were being wound
invisibly round her. Ethel and her father knew nothing of the world, and
were so unreasonable in their requirements! Meta would consult them
all, and all her scruples would awaken, and perhaps Dr. Spencer might
be interrogated on Sir Henry's life abroad, where Flora had a suspicion
that gossip had best not be raked up.

Not that she concealed anything positively known to her, or that she
was not acting just as she would have done by her own child. She found
herself happily married to one whom home notions would have rejected,
and she believed Meta would be perfectly happy with a man of decided
talent, honour, and unstained character, even though he should not come
up to her father's or Ethel's standard.

If Meta were to marry as they would approve, she would have far to
seek among
Meantime, was not Flora acting with
exemplary judgment and self-denial?

So she wrote that she could not come home; Margaret was much
disappointed, and so was Meta, who had looked to Ethel to unravel the
tangles of her life
said Flora to herself
We barter life for pottage, sell true bliss
     For wealth or power, for pleasure or renown;
     Thus, Esau-like, our Father's blessing miss,
     Then wash with fruitless tears our faded crown.
                                          Christian Year
said Margaret, holding up
a letter
Margaret read
said Dr. May, startled, and holding out his hand for the
letter
said Margaret
said Margaret anxiously
Dr. May kept his word, and the letter had evidently not been neglected;
for George was watching for him at the station, and thanked him so
eagerly for coming, that Dr. May feared that he was indeed needed, and
inquired anxiously
replied George
Dr. May made an impatient movement, and thought the way long, till they
were set down in Park Lane. Meta came to meet them on the stairs, and
said that the baby was just the same, and Flora was in the nursery, and
thither they hastily ascended
said Flora, starting up from her
low seat, beside the cradle.

Dr. May hardly paused to embrace his daughter, and she anxiously led him
to the cradle, and tried to read his expression, as his eyes fell on the
little face, somewhat puffed, but of a waxy whiteness, and the breathing
seeming to come from the lips
he asked, in a rapid, professional manner
said Flora, more and more alarmed by his manner
added she, as the
child feebly moaned, on Dr. May beginning to take her from her cradle;
but, without attending to the objection, he lifted her up, so that she
lay as quietly as before, on his arm. Flora had trusted that hope and
confidence would come with him; but, on the contrary, every lurking
misgiving began to rush wildly over her, as she watched his countenance,
while he carried his little granddaughter towards the light, studied
her intently, raised her drooping eyelids, and looked into her eyes,
scarcely eliciting another moan. Flora dared not ask a question, but
looked on with eyes open, as it were, stiffened
were Dr. May's first words, breaking
on all with startling suddenness; but, before any one could speak, he
added
then looking round the
room
quickly suggested the nurse
He broke off to apportion the dose, and to hold the child in a
position to administer it -- Flora tried to give it -- the nurse tried -- in
vain
said the doctor, as Flora would have
renewed the trial
cried he, as, looking up, his face changed from the tender compassion
with which he had been regarding his little patient, into a look of
strong indignation, and one of his sentences of hasty condemnation broke
from him, as it would not have done, had Flora been less externally
calm
They all recoiled; the father turned fiercely round on the nurse, with a
violent exclamation, but Dr. May checked him
The solemn tone seemed to make George shrink
into an awestruck quiescence; he stood motionless and transfixed, as if
indeed conscious of some overwhelming presence.

Flora had come near, with an imploring gesture, to take the child in
her own arms; but Dr. May, by a look of authority, prevented it; for,
indeed, it would have been harassing and distressing the poor little
sufferer again to move her, as she lay with feeble gasps on his arm.

So they remained, for what space no one knew -- not one word was uttered,
not a limb moved, and the street noises sounded far off.

Dr. May stooped his head closer to the babe's face, and seemed listening
for a breath, as he once more touched the little wrist; he took away his
finger, he ceased to listen, he looked up.

Flora gave one cry -- not loud, not sharp, but
she would have moved forward, but reeled, and her husband's arms
supported her as she sank into a swoon
said Dr. May
and, when George
had borne her away, he kissed the lifeless cheek, and reverently placed
the little corpse in the cradle; but, as he rose from doing so, the
sobbing nurse exclaimed
said Dr. May sternly
cried Preston
vehemently
said Dr. May, pointing to the bottle of Godfrey's
Cordial.

He could say no more, for her master was hurrying back into the room.
Anger was the first emotion that possessed him, and he hardly gave an
answer to Dr. May's question about Flora
Preston shrieked and sobbed, made incoherent exclamations, and was much
disposed to cling to the doctor
said Dr. May, lifting his hand, and assuming a tone and
manner that awed them both, by reminding them that death was present in
the chamber; and, taking his son-in-law out, and shutting the door, he
said, in a low voice
said
George doggedly
said Dr. May, laying his hand on his arm
His peremptory manner imposed on George, who, nevertheless, turned round
as he went, saying, with a fierce glare in his eyes
Dr. May returned to Preston, and had to assure her that Mr. Rivers was
not gone to call the police, before he could bring her to any degree of
coherence. She regarded him as her only friend, and soon undertook to
tell the whole truth, and he perceived that it was, indeed, the truth.
She had not known that the cordial was injurious, deeming it a panacea
against fretfulness, precious to nurses, but against which ladies always
had a prejudice, and, therefore, to be kept secret. Poor little Leonora
had been very fretful and uneasy when Flora's many avocations had first
caused her to be set aside, and Preston had had recourse to the remedy
which, lulling her successfully, was applied with less moderation and
judgment than would have been shown by a more experienced person, till
gradually the poor child became dependent on it for every hour of rest.
When her mother, at last, became aware of her unsatisfactory condition,
and spent her time in watching her, the nurse being prevented from
continuing her drug, she was, of course, so miserable without it, that
Preston had ventured on proposing it, to which Mrs. Rivers had replied
with displeasure sufficient to prevent her from declaring how much she
had previously given. Preston was in an agony of distress for her little
charge, as well as of fear for herself, and could hardly understand what
her error had been. Dr. May soon saw that, though not highly principled,
her sorrow was sincere, and that she still wept bitterly over the
consequences of her treatment, when he told her that she had nothing to
fear from the law, and that he would protect her from Mr. Rivers.

Her confession was hardly over when Meta knocked at the door, pale and
frightened
Dr. May made a sound of sorrow and perplexity, and Meta, as she went
down before him, asked, in a low, horror-stricken whisper
said Dr. May
They had come to Flora's dressing-room. Her bedroom door was open, and
George was pacing heavily up and down the length of both apartments,
fiercely indignant
said he, advancing eagerly on Dr. May
said Dr. May, instead of answering him. Flora lay on her
bed, her face hidden on her pillow, only now and then moaning
said her father, bending down to raise
her, and taking her hand.

She moved away, so as to bury her face more completely; but there was
life in the movement, and he was sufficiently reassured on her situation
to be able to attend to George, who was only impatient to rush off
to take his revenge. He led him into the outer room, where Meta was
waiting, and forced upon his unwilling conviction that it was no case
for the law. The child had not been killed by any one dose, but had
rather sunk from the want of stimulus, to which she had been accustomed.
As to any pity for the woman, George would not hear of it. She was
still, in his eyes, the destroyer of his child; and, when he found the
law would afford him no vengeance, he insisted that she should be turned
out of his house at once
called a hollow voice from the next room, and hurrying back,
they saw Flora sitting up, and, as well as trembling limbs allowed,
endeavouring to rise to her feet, while burning spots were in her
cheeks
and she gave a ghastly laugh.

George threw his arms round her, and laid her on her bed again, with
many fond words, and strength which she had not power to withstand. Dr.
May, in the meantime, spoke quickly to Meta in the doorway
He felt that he could confide in Meta's discretion and promptitude, and
returned to the parents
said George, in a whisper, which he meant should be
unheard by his wife, who had sunk her face in her pillows again
cried George
and, no longer occupied by the hope of retribution, he gave way
to an overpowering burst of grief.

His wife did not rouse herself to comfort him, but still lay motionless,
excepting for a convulsive movement that passed over her frame at each
sound from him, and her father felt her pulse bound at the same time
with corresponding violence, as if each of his deep-drawn sobs were
a mortal thrust. Going to him, Dr. May endeavoured to repress his
agitation, and lead him from the room; but he could not, at first,
prevail on him to listen or understand, still less, to quit Flora. The
attempt to force on him the perception that his uncontrolled sorrow
was injuring her, and that he ought to bear up for her sake, only did
further harm; for, when he rose up and tried to caress her, there was
the same torpid, passive resistance, the same burying her face from the
light, and the only betrayal of consciousness in the agonised throbs of
her pulse.

He became excessively distressed at being thus repelled, and, at last,
yielded to the impatient signals of Dr. May, who drew him into the next
room, and, with brief, strong, though most affectionate and pitying
words, enforced on him that Flora's brain -- nay, her life, was risked,
and that he must leave her alone to his care for the present. Meta
coming back at the same moment, Dr. May put him in her charge, with
renewed orders to impress on him how much depended on tranquillity.

Dr. May went back, with his soft, undisturbing, physician's footfall,
and stood at the side of the bed, in such intense anxiety as those only
can endure who know how to pray, and to pray in resignation and faith.

All was still in the darkening twilight; but the distant roar of the
world surged without, and a gaslight shone flickering through the
branches of the trees, and fell on the rich dress spread on the couch,
and the ornaments on the toilet-table. There was a sense of oppression,
and of being pursued by the incongruous world, and Dr. May sighed to
silence all around, and see his poor daughter in the calm of her own
country air; but she had chosen for herself, and here she lay, stricken
down in the midst of the prosperity that she had sought.

He could hear every respiration, tightened and almost sobbing, and he
was hesitating whether to run the risk of addressing her; when, as if it
had occurred to her suddenly that she was alone and deserted, she raised
up her head with a startled movement, but, as she saw him, she again hid
her face, as if his presence were still more intolerable than solitude
Flora let him turn her face towards him and kiss her forehead. It was
burning, and he brought water and bathed it, now and then speaking a few
fond, low, gentle words, which, though she did not respond, evidently
had some soothing effect; for she admitted his services, still, however,
keeping her eyes closed, and her face turned towards the darkest side of
the room. When he went towards the door, she murmured
as if to
detain him
said Flora
George's step was heard; his hand was on the lock, and again Dr. May was
conscious of the sudden rush of blood through all her veins. He
quickly went forward, met him, and shut him out, persuading him, with
difficulty, to remain outside, and giving him the occupation of sending
out for an anodyne -- since the best hope, at present, lay in encouraging
the torpor that had benumbed her crushed faculties.

Her father would not even venture to rouse her to be undressed; he gave
her the medicine, and let her lie still, with as little movement as
possible, standing by till her regular breathings showed that she had
sunk into a sleep; when he went into the other room and found that
George had also forgotten his sorrows in slumber on the sofa, while Meta
sat sadly presiding over the tea equipage.

She came up to meet him, her question expressed in her looks
he said
said Meta, wiping away her tears
said Dr. May
said Meta
They could say no more, for George awoke, and the argument of his
exclusion had to be gone through again. He could not enter into it by
any means; and when Dr. May would have made him understand that poor
Flora could not acquit herself of neglect, and that even his affection
was too painful for her in the present state; he broke into a vehement
angry defence of her devotion to her child, treating Dr. May as if the
accusation came from him; and when the doctor and Meta had persuaded him
out of this, he next imagined that his father-in-law feared that he was
going to reproach his wife, and there was no making him comprehend more
than that, if she were not kept quiet, she might have a serious illness.

Even then he insisted on going to look at her, and Dr. May could not
prevent him from pressing his lips to her forehead. She half opened her
eyes, and murmured
and by this he was a little comforted;
but he would hear of nothing but sitting up, and Meta would have done
the same, but for an absolute decree of the doctor.

It was a relief to Dr. May that George's vigil soon became a sound
repose on the sofa in the dressing-room; and he was left to read and
muse uninterruptedly.

It was far past two o'clock before there was any movement; then Flora
drew a long breath, stirred, and, as her father came and drew her hand
into his, before she was well awake, she gave a long, wondering whisper
then sitting up, and passing her hand over her eyes
said Dr. May, supporting her, as she
rested against his arm, and hid her face on his shoulder, while her
breath came short, and she shivered under the renewed perception
said Flora, her voice shortened by anguish
said Dr. May entreatingly
said Flora, drawing her hands away from him,
and tightly clenching them in one another, as thoughts far too terrible
for words swept over her
said Dr. May. Flora sat
for a minute or two, her hands locked together round her knees, her head
bowed down, her lips compressed. Her father was so far satisfied that
the bodily dangers he had dreaded were averted; but the agony of mind
was far more terrible, especially in one who expressed so little, and in
whom it seemed, as it were, pent up
said Flora presently, with a resolution of tone as if she would
prevent resistance
said the doctor at once; and she seemed grateful
not to be opposed, speaking more gently, as she said
said Dr. May.

The dawn, and a yellow waning moon, gave sufficient light for moving
about, and Flora gained her feet; but she was weak and trembling, and
needed the support of her father's arm, though hardly conscious of
receiving it, as she mounted the same stairs, that she had so often
lightly ascended in the like doubtful morning light; for never, after
any party, had she omitted her visit to the nursery.

The door was locked, and she looked piteously at her father as her weak
push met the resistance, and he was somewhat slow in turning the key
with his left hand. The whitewashed, slightly furnished room reflected
the light, and the moonbeams showed the window-frame in pale and dim
shades on the blinds, the dewy air breathed in coolly from the park,
and there was a calm solemnity in the atmosphere -- no light, no watcher
present to tend the babe. Little Leonora needed such no more; she was
with the Keeper, who shall neither slumber nor sleep.

So it thrilled across her grandfather, as he saw the little cradle
drawn into the middle of the room, and, on the coverlet, some pure white
rosebuds and lilies of the valley, gathered in the morning by Mary
and Blanche, little guessing the use that Meta would make of them ere
nightfall.

The mother sank on her knees, her hands clasped over her breast, and
rocking herself to and fro uneasily, with a low, irrepressible moaning
whispered Dr. May
was the answer, in the hollow voice, and with the
wild eye that had before alarmed him; but trusting to the soothing power
of the mute face of the innocent, he drew back the covering.

The sight was such as he anticipated, sadly lovely, smiling and
tranquil -- all oppression and suffering fled away for ever.

It stilled the sounds of pain, and the restless motion; the compression
of the hands became less tight, and he began to hope that the look was
passing into her heart. He let her kneel on without interruption, only
once he said
She made no immediate answer, and he had had time to doubt whether he
ought to let her continue in that exhausting attitude any longer, when
she looked up and said
said Dr. May.

Flora shuddered, but spoke calmly
he exclaimed
said Flora, still in the same fearfully
quiet, matter-of-fact tone
and she bent over her
child, as if taking her leave for eternity.

His tongue almost clave to the roof of his mouth, as he heard the
words -- words elicited by one of those hours of true reality that,
like death, rend aside every wilful cloak of self-deceit, and
self-approbation. He had no power to speak at first; when he recovered
it, his reply was not what his heart had, at first, prompted
he said
said Flora
he exclaimed, losing the calmness he had gained
by such an effort
he sank his voice
said Flora
The most terrible part of this sentence was to Dr. May, that Flora spoke
as if she knew it all as a certainty, and without apparent emotion, with
all the calmness of despair. What she had never guessed before had
come clearly and fully upon her now, and without apparent novelty,
or, perhaps, there had been misgivings in the midst of her complacent
self-satisfaction. She did not even seem to perceive how dreadfully
she was shocking her father, whose sole comfort was in believing her
language the effect of exaggerated self-reproach. His profession had
rendered him not new to the sight of despondency, and, dismayed as he
was, he was able at once to speak to the point
said her mother, and her assent was in the same tone of resigned
despair, owning it best for her child to be spared a worldly education,
and loving her truly enough to acquiesce
continued Dr. May
She could not accept the encouragement, and only formed, with her lips,
the words
The simplicity and hearty piety which, with all Dr. May's faults, had
always been part of his character, and had borne him, in faith and
trust, through all his trials, had never belonged to her. Where he had
been sincere, erring only from impulsiveness, she had been double-minded
and calculating; and, now that her delusion had been broken down, she
had nothing to rest upon. Her whole religious life had been mechanical,
deceiving herself more than even others, and all seemed now swept away,
except the sense of hypocrisy, and of having cut herself off, for ever,
from her innocent child. Her father saw that it was vain to argue with
her, and only said
As she made no reply, he repeated the Lord's Prayer, but she did not
join; and then he added a broken, hesitating intercession for the
mourners, which caused her to bury her face deeper in her hands, but her
dull wretchedness altered not.

Rising, he said authoritatively
said Flora, with somewhat of her
anxious, considerate self
said she
she said,
pausing, as to recall her recollection
said Flora
said she, as if she could not bear it
Dr. May felt cheered. He was sure that hope must again rise out of
unselfish love and duty.

Their return awoke George, who started, half sitting up, wondering why
he was spending the night in so unusual a manner, and why Flora looked
so pale, in the morning light, with her loosened, drooping hair.

She went straight to him, and, kneeling by his side, said
The same moment he had caught her to his bosom; but so
impressed was his tardy mind with the peril of talking to her, that he
held her in his arms without a single word, till Dr. May had unclosed
his lips -- a sign would not suffice -- he must have a sentence to assure
him; and then it was such joy to have her restored, and his fondness
and solicitude were so tender and eager in their clumsiness, that his
father-in-law was touched to the heart.

Flora was quite herself again, in presence of mind and power of dealing
with him; and Dr. May left them to each other, and went to his own room,
for such rest as sorrow, sympathy, and the wakening city, would permit
him.

When the house was astir in the morning, and the doctor had met Meta in
the breakfast-room, and held with her a sad, affectionate conversation,
George came down with a fair report of his wife, and took her father to
see her.

That night had been like an illness to her, and, though perfectly
composed, she was feeble and crushed, keeping the room darkened, and
reluctant to move or speak. Indeed, she did not seem able to give her
attention to any one's voice, except her husband's. When Dr. May, or
Meta, spoke to her, she would miss what they said, beg their pardon, and
ask them to repeat it; and sometimes, even then, become bewildered.
They tried reading to her, but she did not seem to listen, and her
half-closed eye had the expression of listless dejection, that her
father knew betokened that, even as last night, her heart refused to
accept promises of comfort as meant for her.

For George, however, her attention was always ready, and was perpetually
claimed. He was forlorn and at a loss without her, every moment; and,
in the sorrow which he too felt most acutely, could not have a minute's
peace unless soothed by her presence; he was dependent on her to a
degree which amazed and almost provoked the doctor, who could not
bear to have her continually harassed and disturbed, and yet was much
affected by witnessing so much tenderness, especially in Flora, always
the cold utilitarian member of his family.

In the middle of the day she rose and dressed, because George was
unhappy at having to sit without her, though only in the next room. She
sat in the large arm-chair, turned away from the blinded windows, never
speaking nor moving, save when he came to her, to make her look at
his letters and notes, when she would, with the greatest patience and
sweetness, revise them, suggest word or sentence, rouse herself to
consider each petty detail, and then sink back into her attitude of
listless dejection. To all besides, she appeared totally indifferent;
gently courteous to Meta and to her father, when they addressed her, but
otherwise showing little consciousness whether they were in the room;
and yet, when something was passing about her father's staying or
returning, she rose from her seat, came up to him before he was aware,
and said
in such an imploring
tone, that if he had ever thought of quitting her, he could not have
done so.

He longed to see her left to perfect tranquillity, but such could not be
in London. Though theirs was called a quiet house, the rushing stream
of traffic wearied his country ears, the door bell seemed ceaselessly
ringing, and though Meta bore the brunt of the notes and messages, great
numbers necessarily came up to Mr. Rivers, and of these Flora was not
spared one. Dr. May had his share too of messages and business, and
friends and relations, the Rivers' kindred, always ready to take
offence with their rich connections, and who would not be satisfied with
inquiries, at the door, but must see Meta, and would have George fetched
down to them -- old aunts, who wanted the whole story of the child's
illness, and came imagining there was something to be hushed up; Lady
Leonora extremely polite, but extremely disgusted at the encounter with
them; George ready to be persuaded to take every one up to see his wife,
and the prohibition to be made by Dr. May over and over again -- it was
a most tedious, wearing afternoon, and at last, when the visitors had
gone, and George had hurried back to his wife, Dr. May threw himself
into an arm-chair and said
said Meta
sighed the doctor
said Meta
said Dr. May, thinking of his
poor daughter
said Meta
repeated Meta, half smiling
said Dr. May
returned Meta
cried Dr. May, almost petulant at the sound
of the bell again, breaking into the conversation that was a great
refreshment
said Meta
The doctor did not like it the better.

Sir Henry sent up a message to ask whether he could see Mr. or Miss
Rivers
said Meta, looking at the doctor
She blushed greatly, fancying that Dr. May was putting his own
construction on the heightened colour which she could not control.
Sir Henry came in, just what he ought to be, kindly anxious, but not
overwhelming, and with a ready, pleased recognition of the doctor, as an
old acquaintance of his boyhood. He did not stay many minutes; but there
was a perceptible difference between his real sympathy and friendly
regard only afraid of obtruding, and the oppressive curiosity of their
former visitors. Dr. May felt it due, both from kindness and candour, to
say something in his praise when he was gone
he said
said Meta; a very simple yes, from which nothing could be
gathered.

The funeral was fixed for Monday, the next day but one, at the church
where Mr. Rivers had been buried. No one was invited to be present;
Ethel wrote that, much as she wished it, she could not leave Margaret,
and, as the whole party were to return home on the following day, they
should soon see Flora.

Flora had laid aside all privileges of illness after the first day; she
came downstairs to breakfast and dinner, and though looking wretchedly
ill, and speaking very low and feebly, she was as much as ever the
mistress of her house. Her father could never draw her into conversation
again on the subject nearest his heart, and could only draw the sad
conclusion that her state of mind was unchanged, from the dreary
indifference with which she allowed every word of cheer to pass by
unheeded, as if she could not bear to look beyond the grave. He had some
hope in the funeral, which she was bent on attending, and more in the
influence of Margaret, and the counsel of Richard, or of Mr. Wllmot.

The burial, however, failed to bring any peaceful comfort to the
mourning mother. Meta's tears flowed freely, as much for her father
as for her little niece; and George's sobs were deep and choking; but
Flora, externally, only seemed absorbed in helping him to go through
with it; she, herself, never lost her fixed, composed, hopeless look.

After her return, she went up to the nursery, and deliberately set
apart and locked up every possession of her child's, then, coming down,
startled Meta by laying her hand on her shoulder and saying
said Flora, in answer
Meta wondered how Flora had known whither to send, but she could not but
obey. Poor Preston was an ordinary sort of woman, kind-hearted, and not
without a conscience; but her error had arisen from the want of any high
religious principle to teach her obedience, or sincerity. Her grief was
extreme, and she had been so completely overcome by the forbearance and
consideration shown to her, that she was even more broken-hearted by the
thought of them, than by the terrible calamity she had occasioned.

Kind-hearted Mrs. Larpent had tried to console her, as well as to turn
the misfortune to the best account, and Dr. May had once seen her, and
striven gently to point out the true evil of the course she had pursued.
She was now going to her home, and they augured better of her, that
she had been as yet too utterly downcast to say one word of that first
thought with a servant, her character.

Meta found her sobbing uncontrollably at the associations of her
master's house, and dreadfully frightened at hearing that she was to see
Mrs. Rivers; she began to entreat to the contrary with the vehemence of
a person unused to any self-government; but, in the midst, the low
calm tones were heard, and her mistress stood before her -- her perfect
stillness of demeanour far more effective in repressing agitation, than
had been Meta's coaxing attempts to soothe
said Flora kindly
continued Flora
Preston tried to thank
and the clear tone grew fainter than ever
with internal anguish, though still steady
There was a sound in the affirmative, but poor Preston could not speak
and Flora took her hand and shook it
Meta was a little disappointed to see sovereigns instead of a book.
Flora turned to go, and put her hand out to lean on her sister as for
support; she stood still to gather strength before ascending the stairs,
and a groan of intense misery was wrung from her
said Flora gently
Flora reached her own room, went in, and bolted the door
Oh, where dwell ye, my ain sweet bairns?
       I'm woe and weary grown!
     Oh, Lady, we live where woe never is,
       In a land to flesh unknown.-- ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.


It had been with a gentle sorrow that Etheldred had expected to go and
lay in her resting-place, the little niece, who had been kept from the
evil of the world, in a manner of which she had little dreamt. Poor
Flora! she must be ennobled, she thought, by having a child where hers
is, when she is able to feel anything but the first grief; and Ethel's
heart yearned to be trying, at least, to comfort her, and to be with her
father, who had loved his grandchild so fondly.

It was not to be. Margaret had borne so many shocks with such calmness,
that Ethel had no especial fears for her; but there are some persons who
have less fortitude for others than for themselves, and she was one of
these. Ethel had been her own companion-sister, and the baby had been
the sunbeam of her life, during the sad winter and spring.

In the middle of the night, Ethel knocked at Richard's door. Margaret
had been seized with faintness, from which they could not bring her
back; and, even when Richard had summoned Dr. Spencer, it was long ere
his remedies took effect; but, at last, she revived enough to thank
them, and say she was glad that papa was not there.

Dr. Spencer sent them all to bed, and the rest of the night was quiet;
but Margaret could not deny, in the morning, that she felt terribly
shattered, and she was depressed in spirits to a degree such as they
had never seen in her before. Her whole heart was with Flora; she was
unhappy at being at a distance from her, almost fretfully impatient for
letters, and insisting vehemently on Ethel's going to London.

Ethel had never felt so helpless and desolate, as with Margaret thus
changed and broken, and her father absent
said Dr. Spencer
sighed Ethel
said Ethel abruptly,
not to say fiercely
said Dr. Spencer, smiling, so that she was
ashamed of her speech
said Ethel
Dr. Spencer was glad to have dismissed Ethel smiling; and she was the
better able to bear with poor Margaret's condition of petulance. She had
never before experienced the effects of bodily ailments on the temper,
and she was slow to understand the change in one usually so patient and
submissive. She was, by turns, displeased with her sister and with her
own abruptness; but, though she knew it not, her bluntness had a bracing
effect. She thought she had been cross in declaring it was nonsense to
harp on her going to London; but it made Margaret feel that she had been
unreasonable, and keep silence.

Richard managed her much better, being gentle and firm, and less ready
to speak than Ethel, and he succeeded in composing her into a sleep,
which restored her balance, and so relieved Ethel, that she not only
allowed Dr. Spencer to say what he pleased, but herself made light of
the whole attack, little knowing how perilous was any shock to that
delicate frame.

Margaret's whole purpose was to wind herself up for the first interview
with Flora; and though she had returned to her usual state, she would
not go downstairs on the evening the party were expected, believing
it would be more grateful to her sister's feelings to meet her without
witnesses.

The travellers arrived, and Dr. May hurried up to her. She barely
replied to his caresses and inquiries in her eagerness to hear of Flora,
and to convince him that he must not forbid the meeting. Nor had he any
mind so to do
said he, when he had seen the spiritualised
look of her glistening blue eyes, the flush on her transparent cheeks,
and her hands clasped over her breast
Flora came, but there was sore disappointment. Fond and tender she
was as ever, but, neither by word or gesture, would she admit the most
remote allusion to her grief. She withdrew her hand when Margaret's
pressure became expressive; she avoided her eye, and spoke incessantly
of different subjects. All the time, her voice was low and hollow, her
face had a settled expression of wretchedness, and her glances wandered
drearily and restlessly anywhere but to Margaret's face; but her
steadiness of manner was beyond her sister's power to break, and her
visit was shortened on account of her husband. Poor George had quite
given way at the sight of Gertrude, whom his little girl had been
thought to resemble; and, though Dr. May had soothed him almost like
a child, no one put any trust in his self-control, and all sat round,
fearing each word or look, till Flora came downstairs, and they
departed.

Richard and Ethel each offered to go with them; they could not bear to
think of their spending that first evening in their childless home; but
Flora gently, but decidedly, refused; and Dr. May said that, much as he
wished to be with them, he believed that Flora preferred having no one
but Meta
were Flora's last words
to him, and they seemed to explain her guarded manner; but he found
Margaret weeping as she had never wept for herself, and palpitation and
faintness were the consequence.

Ethel looked on at Flora as a sad and perplexing mystery during the
weeks that ensued. There were few opportunities of being alone together,
and Flora shrank from such as they were -- nay, she checked all expression
of solicitude, and made her very kisses rapid and formal.

The sorrow that had fallen on the Grange seemed to have changed none of
the usual habits there -- visiting, riding, driving, dinners, and music,
went on with little check. Flora was sure to be found the animated,
attentive lady of the house, or else sharing her husband's pursuits,
helping him with his business, or assisting him in seeking pleasure,
spending whole afternoons at the coachmaker's over a carriage that they
were building, and, it was reported, playing ecarte in the evening.

Had grief come to be forgotten and cast aside without effecting any
mission? Yet Ethel could not believe that the presence of the awful
messenger was unfelt, when she heard poor George's heavy sigh, or when
she looked at Flora's countenance, and heard the peculiar low, subdued
tone of her voice, which, when her words were most cheerful, always
seemed to Ethel the resigned accent of despair.

Ethel could not talk her over with Margaret, for all seemed to make it
a point that Margaret should believe the best. Dr. May turned from the
subject with a sort of shuddering grief, and said
Ethel, though shocked by the unwonted manner of his answer, was somewhat
consoled by perceiving that a double measure of tenderness had sprung
up between her father and his poor daughter. If Flora had seemed, in her
girlhood, to rate him almost cheaply, this was at an end now; she met
him as if his embrace were peace, the gloom was lightened, the attention
less strained, when he was beside her, and she could not part with him
without pressing for a speedy meeting. Yet she treated him with the same
reserve; since that one ghastly revelation of the secrets of her heart,
the veil had been closely drawn, and he could not guess whether it had
been but a horrible thought, or were still an abiding impression. Ethel
could gather no more than that her father was very unhappy about Flora,
and that Richard understood why; for Richard had told her that he had
written to Flora, to try to persuade her to cease from this reserve, but
that he had no reply.

Norman was not at home; he had undertaken the tutorship of two
schoolboys for the holidays; and his father owned, with a sigh, that he
was doing wisely.

As to Meta, she was Ethel's chief consolation, by the redoubled
assurances, directed to Ethel's unexpressed dread, lest Flora should be
rejecting the chastening Hand. Meta had the most absolute certainty that
Flora's apparent cheerfulness was all for George's sake, and that it was
a most painful exertion
Meta said
said Ethel
said Meta
Ethel caught herself saying
cried Meta
slowly said Ethel, so much in her quaint way that Meta
laughed.

Had it not been for Norman's absence, Ethel would, in the warm sympathy
and accustomed manner of Meta Rivers, have forgotten all about the hopes
and fears that, in brighter days, had centred on that small personage;
until one day, as she came home from Cocksmoor, she found "Sir Henry
Walkinghame's" card on the drawing-room table
was her amiable reflection.

Meta, in her riding-habit, peeped out of Margaret's room
said Ethel, while Margaret looked on, amazed at her
audacity
said Meta
said Ethel
returned Meta
was the general exclamation
said Meta
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Meta
said
Margaret, blushing, as she always did, with pleasure, when they talked
of the church.

Hector Ernescliffe had revived Margaret wonderfully. She was seldom
downstairs before the evening, and Ethel thought his habit of making her
apartment his sitting-room must be as inconvenient to her as it was
to herself; but Hector could not be de trop for Margaret. She exerted
herself to fulfil for him all the little sisterly offices that, with her
brothers, had been transferred to Ethel and Mary; she threw herself into
all his schemes, tried to make him endure Captain Gordon, and she
even read his favourite book of Wild Sports, though her feelings were
constantly lacerated by the miseries of the slaughtered animals.
Her couch was to him as a home, and he had awakened her bright soft
liveliness which had been only dimmed for a time.

The church was her other great interest, and Dr. Spencer humoured her
by showing her all his drawings, consulting her on every ornament,
and making many a perspective elevation, merely that she might see the
effect.

Richard and Tom made it their recreation to construct a model of the
church as a present for her, and Tom developed a genius for carving,
which proved a beneficial interest to keep him from surliness. He had
voluntarily propounded his intended profession to his father, who had
been so much pleased by his choice, that he could not but be gratified;
though now and then ambitious fancies, and discontent with Stoneborough,
combined to bring on his ordinary moody fits, the more, because his
habitual reserve prevented any one from knowing what was working in his
mind.

Finally the Rivers' party announced their intention of going to the Isle
of Wight as soon as Meta had come of age; and the council of Cocksmoor,
meeting at tea at Dr. May's house, decided that the foundation stone
of the church should be laid on the day after her birthday, when there
would be a gathering of the whole family, as Margaret wished. Dr.
Spencer had worked incredibly hard to bring it forward, and Margaret's
sweet smiles, and liquid eyes, expressed how personally thankful she
felt
said Dr.
Spencer, as he left the house with Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Wilmot, shocked
said Dr. Spencer, his voice
faltering
said Mr. Wilmot
rejoined Dr. Spencer
said Mr. Wilmot
said Mr. Wilmot, smiling
interrupted Dr. Spencer
Hitherto the Stoneborough subscribers to the Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel had been few and far between; but, under the new dynasty,
there was a talk of forming an association, and having a meeting to
bring the subject forward. Dr. Spencer's proposal, however, took the
vicar by surprise
he argued
said the vicar
said Dr. Spencer
Mr. Wilmot was drawn into Dr. Spencer's house, and heard the letters,
till his heart burned within him.

The meeting was at once decided upon, though Ethel could not see why
people could not give without speechifying, and her two younger brothers
declared it was humbug -- Tom saying, he wished all blackamoors were out
of creation, and Harry, that he could not stand palaver about his friend
David. Dr. May threatened him with being displayed on the platform as a
living instance of the effects of missions, at which he took alarm, and
so seriously declared that he should join the Bucephalus at once, that
they pacified him by promising that he should do as he pleased.

The archdeacon promised a sermon, and the active Dr Spencer worked the
nine muses and all the rest of the town and neighbourhood into a state
of great enthusiasm and expectation. He went to the Grange, as he said,
to collect his artillery; primed Flora that she might prime the M. P.;
made the willing Meta promise to entrap the uncle, who was noted for
philanthropical speeches; and himself captured Sir Henry Walkinghame,
who looked somewhat rueful at what he found incumbent on him as a
country gentleman, though there might be some compensation in the
eagerness of Miss Rivers.

Norman had hardly set foot in Stoneborough before he was told what was
in store for him, and, to the general surprise, submitted as if it were
a very simple matter. As Dr. Spencer told him, it was only a foretaste
of the penalty which every missionary has to pay for coming to England.
Norman was altogether looking much better than when he had been last at
home, and his spirits were more even. He had turned his whole soul to
the career he had chosen, cast his disappointment behind him, or, more
truly, made it his offering, and gathered strength and calmness, with
which to set out on tasks of working for others, with thoughts too much
absorbed on them, to give way to the propensity of making himself the
primary object of study and contemplation. The praise of God, and love
of man, were the best cures for tendencies like his, and he had found it
out. His calm, though grave cheerfulness, came as a refreshment to those
who had been uneasy about him, and mournfully watching poor Flora
said Dr. Spencer
Norman coloured, as if he understood more than met the ear. Mary and
Blanche were very busy preparing presents for Meta Rivers, and every one
was anxious to soften to her the thought of this first birthday without
her father. Each of the family contributed some pretty little trifle,
choice in workmanship or kind in device, and each was sealed and marked
with the initials of the giver, and packed up by Mary, to be committed
to Flora's charge. Blanche had, however, much trouble in extracting a
gift from Norman, and he only yielded at last, on finding that all his
brothers had sent something, so that his omission would be marked. Then
he dived into the recesses of his desk, and himself sealed up a little
parcel, of which he would not allow his sisters to inspect the contents.

Ethel had a shrewd guess. She remembered his having, in the flush of
joy at Margaret's engagement, rather prematurely caused a seal to be
cut with a daisy, and "Pearl of the meadow" as the motto; and his having
said that he should keep it as a wedding present. She could understand
that he was willing to part with it without remark.

Flora met Meta in her sitting-room, on the morning of the day, which
rose somewhat sadly upon the young girl, as she thought of past
affection and new responsibilities. If the fondness of a sister could
have compensated for what she had lost, Meta received it in no scanty
measure from Flora, who begged to call George, because he would be
pleased to see the display of gifts.

His own was the only costly one -- almost all the rest were homemade
treasures of the greater price, because the skill and fondness of
the maker were evident in their construction; and Meta took home the
kindness as it was meant, and felt the affection that would not let her
feel herself lonely. She only wished to go and thank them all at once
said Flora
Margaret Agatha Rivers signed her documents, listened to explanations,
and was complimented by her uncle on not thinking it necessary to be
senseless on money matters, like her cousin, Agatha Langdale.

Still she looked a little oppressed, as she locked up the tokens of her
wealth, and the sunshine of her face did not beam out again till she
arrived at Stoneborough, and was dispensing her pretty thanks to the few
she found at home
said Meta
said Mary
said Meta
Mary and Blanche fell upon her for calling herself anything but the
nicest flower in the world; and she contended that she was nothing
better than a parrot-tulip, stuck up in a parterre; and just as the
discussion was becoming a game at romps, Dr. May came in, and the
children shouted to him to say whether his humming-bird were a daisy or
a tulip
he said playfully
said Meta
said the doctor, with a droll intonation
said Meta
As usual, Dr. May could not withstand her, and she carried him off in
triumph in her pony carriage
was the first thing she said, as they
were off the stones
said he
she said
thought Dr. May, as he
answered
she said
said Dr. May, looking
arch
Dr. May considered, but could only say
sighed Meta
said the doctor
said Meta, calmly speaking the word that he had avoided
he began
He became strongly interested in a corn-field, and she resumed
said Dr. May
said Meta earnestly
said Dr. May, smiling; then gravely
Meta smiled, and was pleased to think that her first-fruits would be
offered to-morrow
sighed Etheldred, as she fastened her white muslin
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Margaret
Ethel's misanthropy was happily conducted off via the Cocksmoor
children, and any lingering remains were dissipated by her amusement at
Dr. Spencer's ecstasy on seeing Dr. May assume his red robe of office,
to go to the minster in state, with the Town Council. He walked round
and round his friend, called him Nicholas Randall redivivus, quoted
Dogberry, and affronted Gertrude, who had a dim idea that he was making
game of papa.

Ethel was one of those to whom representation was such a penance, that
a festival, necessitating hospitality to guests of her own rank, was
burden enough seriously to disturb the repose of thankfulness for the
attainment of her object, and to render difficult the recueillement
which she needed for the praise and prayer that she felt due from her,
and which seemed to oppress her heart, by a sense of inadequacy of her
partial expression. It was well for her that the day began with the calm
service in the minster, where it was her own fault if cares haunted her,
and she could confess the sin of her irritated sensations, and wishes to
have all her own way, and then, as ever, be led aright into thanksgiving
for the unlooked-for crowning of her labours.

The archdeacon's sermon amplified what Margaret had that morning
expressed, so as to carry on her sense of appropriateness in the
offerings of the day being bestowed on distant lands.

But the ordeal was yet to come, and though blaming herself, she was
anything but comfortable, as the world repaired to the Town Hall, the
room where the same faces so often met for such diverse purposes -- now an
orrery displayed by a conceited lecturer, now a ball, now a magistrates'
meeting, a concert or a poultry show, where rival Hamburg and Dorking
uplifted their voices in the places of Mario and Grisi, all beneath the
benignant portrait of Nicholas Randall, ruffed, robed, square-toed, his
endowment of the scholarship in his hand, and a chequered pavement at
his feet.

Who knows not an S. P. G. meeting?-- the gaiety of the serious, and the
first public spectacle to the young, who, like Blanche and Aubrey, gaze
with admiration at the rows of bonnets, and with awe at the black coats
on the platform, while the relations of the said black coats suffer,
like Ethel, from nervous dread of the public speaking of their best
friends.

Her expectations were realised by the archdeacon's speech, which went
round in a circle, as if he could not find his way out of it. Lord
Cosham was fluent, but a great many words went to very small substance;
and no wonder, thought Ethel, when all they had to propose and second
was the obvious fact that missions were very good things.

Dr. Hoxton pompously, Sir Henry Walkinghame creditably, assisted the
ladies and gentlemen to resolve that the S. P. G. wanted help; Mr. Lake
made a stammering, and Mr. Rivers, with his good-natured face, hearty
manner, and good voice, came in well after him with a straightforward,
speech, so brief, that Ethel gave Flora credit for the best she had yet
heard.

Mr. Wilmot said something which the sharpest ears in the front row
might, perhaps, have heard, and which resulted in Dr. Spencer standing
up. Ethel hardly would have known who was speaking had her eyes been
shut. His voice was so different, when raised and pitched, so as to show
its power and sweetness; the fine polish of his manner was redoubled,
and every sentence had the most graceful turn. It was like listening to
a well-written book, so smooth and so fluent, and yet so earnest -- his
pictures of Indian life so beautiful, and his strong affection for the
converts he described now and then making his eyes fill, and his voice
falter, as if losing the thread of his studied composition -- a true and
dignified work of art, that made Dr. May whisper to Flora
With half a sigh, Ethel saw Norman rise, and step forward. He began,
with eyes fixed on the ground, and in a low modest tone, to speak of
the islands that Harry had visited; but gradually the poetic nature,
inherent in him, gained the mastery; and though his language was
strikingly simple, in contrast with Dr. Spencer's ornate periods, and
free from all trace of
it rose in beauty and fervour at
every sentence. The feelings that had decided his lot gave energy to his
discourse, and repressed as they had been by reserve and diffidence, now
flowed forth, and gave earnestness to natural gifts of eloquence of the
highest order. After his quiet, unobtrusive beginning, there was the
more wonder to find how he seemed to raise up the audience with him,
in breathless attention, as to a strain of sweet music, carrying them
without thought of the scene, or of the speaker, to the lovely isles,
and the inhabitants of noble promise, but withering for lack of
knowledge; and finally closing his speech, when they were wrought up to
the highest pitch, by an appeal that touched them all home
said he
He ceased. His father wiped his spectacles, and almost audibly murmured
Ethel, who had sat like one enchanted, forgetting who
spoke, forgetting all save the islanders, half turned, and met Richard's
smiling eyes, and his whisper
The impress of a man of true genius and power had been made throughout
the whole assembly; the archdeacon put Norman out of countenance by
the thanks of the meeting for his admirable speech, and all the world,
except the Oxford men, were in a state of as much surprise as pleasure
Harvey Anderson commented
quoth Mrs. Ledwich
said Lord Cosham
said Dr. Hoxton
declared Mrs. Elwood
said Dr. Spencer
exclaimed Blanche
said Meta Rivers.

Margaret received the reports of the select few, who visited her
upstairs, where she was kept quiet, and only heard the hum of the swarm,
whom Dr. May, in vehement hospitality, had brought home to luncheon, to
Ethel's great dread, lest there should not be enough for them to eat.

Margaret pitied her sisters, but heard that all was going well; that
Flora was taking care of the elders, and Harry and Mary were making the
younger fry very merry at the table on the lawn. Dr. May had to start
early to see a sick gardener at Drydale before coming on to Cocksmoor,
and came up to give his daughter a few minutes
he said
said Margaret, smiling
was Margaret's gentle reassurance
and happy was her face
when her father quitted her.

Margaret's next visitor was Meta, who came to reclaim her bonnet, and,
with a merry smile, to leave word that she was walking on to Cocksmoor.
Margaret remonstrated on the heat
said she, making her pretty wilful gesture
said Meta
Tom entered, declaring that he had come to escape from the clack
downstairs
said Meta
said Tom, colouring with gratification, such
as he might not have felt, had he known that he was chosen for his
innocence.

He took a passing glimpse at his neck-tie, screwed up the nap of his
glossy hat to the perfection of its central point, armed himself with
a knowing little stick, and hurried his fair companion out by the back
door, as much afraid of losing the glory of being her sole protector as
she was of falling in with an escort of as much consequence, in other
eyes, as was Mr. Thomas in his own.

She knew him less than any of the rest, and her first amusement was
keeping silence to punish him for complaining of clack; but he explained
that he did not mean quiet, sensible conversation -- he only referred to
those foolish women's raptures over the gabble they had been hearing at
the Town Hall.

She exclaimed, whereupon he began to criticise the speakers with a good
deal of acuteness, exposing the weak points, but magnanimously owning
that it was tolerable for the style of thing, and might go down at
Stoneborough
observed the thread-paper Tom, as if he
had been at least county member
said Meta, really thinking so
said Tom
said Tom
said Tom vehemently
said Meta, smiling defiance, though a tear
shone in her eye
grumbled Tom
Meta was drawn to the boy as she had never been
before, as he broke off short, his face full of emotion, that made him
remind her of his father
said she, as the most
consoling hope she could suggest
asked Meta anxiously
said Tom
said Tom
Meta suspected that Tom was inclined to launch into horrors
she said
Meta was much struck at the motives that actuated the self-sacrifice,
veiled by the sullen manner which she almost began to respect
she said
said Tom
said Meta, in a low, heartfelt voice
The glance of those beautiful eyes was worth having. Tom coloured a
little, but assumed his usual gruffness
he
said
said Meta
said Tom
said Meta
said Tom.

Meta thought perhaps not, but she was full of admiration of his
generosity, and said
Any inroad on Tom's reserved and depressed nature was a benefit; and he
was of an age to be susceptible of the sympathy of one so pretty and
so engaging. He had never been so much gratified or encouraged, and,
wishing to prolong the tete-a-tete, he chose to take the short
cut through the fir-plantations, unfrequented on account of the
perpendicular, spiked railings that divided it from the lane.

Meta was humming-bird enough to be undismayed. She put hand and foot
wherever he desired, flattered him by letting him handily help her up,
and bounded light as a feather down on the other side, congratulating
herself on the change from the dusty lane to the whispering pine
woods, between which wound the dark path, bestrewn with brown slippery
needle-leaves, and edged with the delicate feathering ling and tufts of
soft grass.

Tom had miscalculated the chances of interruption. Meta was lingering
to track the royal highway of some giant ants to their fir-leaf hillock,
when they were hailed from behind, and her squire felt ferocious at the
sight of Norman and Harry closing the perspective of fir-trunks
exclaimed Norman
said Tom
said Meta
said Norman
said Harry
He drew on the reluctant Etonian, who looked repiningly back at the
increasing distance between him and the other pair, till a turn in the
path cut off his view
said Norman
said Meta
said Norman
said Meta
said Norman
said Meta
said Meta, laughing
he said, pausing, with a seriousness and hesitation that
startled her
A sort of bashfulness made her put her answer playfully
The gaiety disconcerted him, and he seemed to try to be silent, or to
reply in the same tone, but he could not help returning to the subject
said Meta.

He was silent, and fearing to have added to his fine-lady impression,
she resumed
he exclaimed
He turned aside and leaned against a tree, as if not daring to watch the
effect of the agitated words that had broken from him. She had little
imagined whither his last sayings had been tending, and stood still,
breathless with the surprise
he said hastily
He seemed to be going, and this roused her
exclaimed
she
He faced suddenly towards her
said Norman, striving to speak calmly
he added quickly, as if fearing himself
was her steady reply
cried Norman
answered the young girl, with
a sweet mixture of resolution and humility
Meta had half said, when feminine dignity checked
the words, consciousness and confusion suddenly assailed her, dyed her
cheeks crimson, and stifled her voice.

It was the same with Norman, and bashfulness making a sudden prey of
both -- on they went under its dominion, in a condition partaking equally
of discomfort and felicity; dreading the sound of their own voices,
afraid of each other's faces, feeling they were treating each other very
strangely and ungratefully, yet without an idea what to say next, or the
power of speaking first; and therefore pacing onwards, looking gravely
straight along the path, as if to prevent the rabbits and foxgloves from
guessing that anything had been passing between them.

Dr. May had made his call at Drydale, and was driving up a rough lane,
between furzy banks, leading to Cocksmoor, when he was aware of a tall
gentleman on one side of the road and a little lady on the other,
with the whole space of the cart-track between them, advancing soberly
towards him
Norman perceived that he had turned to the left instead of to the right,
and was covered with shame
The courteous doctor sprang out to hand Meta in, but something made him
suddenly desire Adams to drive on, and then turning round to the two
young people, he said
said Norman, taking her hand, and drawing her towards him
murmured Meta, clinging to her kind old friend
said Dr. May
Meta's tears prevented all, save the two little words
but
she put out her hand to Norman, as she still rested on the doctor's arm,
more as if he had been her mother than Norman's father
from Norman, was equally inexpressive of the almost
incredulous gratitude and tenderness of his feeling.

It would not bear talking over at that moment, and Dr. May presently
broke the silence in a playful tone
said Meta
said Norman
said Meta quickly
said the doctor, laughing
said Meta, in blushing
distress
said Norman fervently
said Dr. May, looking
tenderly at the fairy figure between them, and ending with a sigh,
remembering, perhaps, the sense of protection with which he had felt
another Margaret lean on his arm.

The clatter of horses' hoofs caused Meta to withdraw her hand, and
Norman to retreat to his own side of the lane, as Sir Henry Walkinghame
and his servant overtook them
called out the doctor
said Sir Henry to Meta
Dr. May answered for her
Sir Henry rode on, finding that he was not to be allowed to walk his
horse with them, and that Miss Rivers had never looked up
said Dr. May
said Meta, very low
continued Dr. May, not
able to help laughing
said Meta
There was a little pause, then Meta said, rather tremulously
Norman came across the path, saying
said Meta
said Dr. May.

A silence of perplexity ensued. Meta, brave as she was, hardly knew her
uncle enough to volunteer, and Norman was privately devising a beginning
by the way of George, when Dr. May said
they cried both at once, feeling that he was the
proper person in every way, and Norman added
exclaimed Meta
A testimony that was welcome to Dr. May, who had once, at least, been
under the impression that Flora courted Sir Henry's attentions to her
sister-in-law.

Further consultation was hindered by Tom and Blanche bursting upon them
from the common, both echoing Norman's former reproach of
and while Blanche explained the sufferings of all the assembly
at their tardiness, Tom, without knowing it, elucidated what had been a
mystery to the doctor, namely, how they ever met, by his indignation at
Norman's having assumed the guidance for which he was so unfit
said Dr. May.

Still Blanche thought them not nearly sufficiently sensible of
their enormities, and preached eagerly about their danger of losing
standing-room, when they emerged on the moor, and beheld a crowd,
above whose heads rose the apex of a triangle, formed by three poles,
sustaining a rope and huge stone
she said
Whatever Dr. Spencer might have suffered, he was far too polite to
scold, and a glance between the two physicians ended in a merry twinkle
of his bright eyes
he said
said Dr. May
He drew them on up the bank -- people making way for them -- till he had
stationed them among the others of their own party, beside the deep
trench that traced the foundation, around a space that seemed far too
small.

Nearly at the same moment began the soft clear sound of chanting wafted
upon the wind, then dying away -- carried off by some eddying breeze, then
clear, and coming nearer and nearer.


             I will not suffer mine eyes to sleep,
                Nor mine eye-lids to slumber:
             Neither the temples of my head to take any rest;
             Until I find out a place for the temple of the Lord:
             An habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.


Few, who knew the history of Cocksmoor, could help glancing towards the
slight girl, who stood, with bent head, her hand clasped over little
Aubrey's; while, all that was not prayer and thanksgiving in her mind,
was applying the words to him, whose head rested in the Pacific isle,
while, in the place which he had chosen, was laid the foundation of the
temple that he had given unto the Lord.

There came forth the procession: the minster choristers, Dr. Spencer as
architect, and, in her white dress, little Gertrude, led between Harry
and Hector, Margaret's special choice for the occasion, and followed by
the Stoneborough clergy.


             Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness.


It came in well with the gentle, meek, steadfast face of the young
curate of Cocksmoor, as he moved on in his white robe, and the sunlight
shone upon his fair hair, and calm brow, thankful for the past, and
hoping, more than fearing, for the future.

The prayers were said, and there was a pause, while Dr. Spencer and the
foreman advanced to the machine and adjusted it. The two youths then led
forward the little girl, her innocent face and large blue eyes wearing
a look of childish obedient solemnity, only half understanding what she
did, yet knowing it was something great.

It was very pretty to see her in the midst of the little gathering round
the foundation, the sturdy workman smiling over his hod of mortar, Dr.
Spencer's silver locks touching her flaxen curls as he held the shining
trowel to her, and Harry's bright head and hardy face, as he knelt on
one knee to guide the little soft hand, while Hector stood by, still and
upright, his eyes fixed far away, as if his thoughts were roaming to the
real founder.

The Victoria coins were placed -- Gertrude scooped up the mass of mortar,
and spread it about with increasing satisfaction, as it went so smoothly
and easily, prolonging the operation, till Harry drew her back, while,
slowly down creaked the ponderous corner-stone into the bed that she had
prepared for it, and, with a good will, she gave three taps on it with
her trowel.

Harry had taken her hand, when, at the sight of Dr. May, she broke from
him, and, as if taking sudden fright at her own unwonted part, ran, at
full speed, straight up to her father, and clung to him, hiding her face
as he raised her in his arms and kissed her.

Meanwhile the strain arose:


             Thou heavenly, new Jerusalem,
             Vision of peace, in Prophet's dream;
             With living stones, built up on high,
             And rising to the starry sky --


The blessing of peace seemed to linger softly and gently in the fragrant
summer breeze, and there was a pause ere the sounds of voices awoke
again
Mr. Wilmot stood beside her, ere going to unrobe in the
school
As she knelt beside her sister's sofa, on her return home, Margaret
pressed something into her hand
she whispered.

Ethel recognised Alan Ernescliffe's pearl hoop, the betrothal ring, and
looked at her sister without a word
said Margaret gently
So Margaret joined in Alan's offering, and Ethel dared say no more, as
she thought how the
was becoming the
There was more true union in this, than in
clinging to the mere tangible emblem -- for broken and weak is all
affection that is not knit together above in the One Infinite Love
Of lowly fields you think no scorn,
     Yet gayest gardens would adorn,
        And grace wherever set;
     Home, seated in your lowly bower,
     Or wedded, a transplanted flower,
        I bless you, Margaret.-- CHARLES LAMB.


George Rivers had an antipathy to ladies' last words keeping the horses
standing, and his wife and sister dutifully seated themselves in the
carriage at once, without an attempt to linger.

Four of the young gentlemen were to walk across to Abbotstoke and dine
at the Grange; and Tom, who, reasoning from analogy, had sent on his
black tie and agate studs, was so dismally disconcerted on finding that
Norman treated his own going as a matter of course, that Richard,
whose chief use of his right of primogeniture was to set himself aside,
discovered that he was wanted at home, and that Tom would be much better
at the Grange, offering, at the same time, to send Norman's dressing
things by Dr. Spencer
observed Thomas
a leap to set it to rights -- a skirmish, knocking
Tom nearly into the ditch
great fury
But for fear of Norman's losing his bearings, Harry would fetch
a carrot, to compare
Norman was, like the others, in such towering glee, and took so full a
share of the witticisms, that were the more noisily applauded, the worse
they were, that Harry suggested that
cried Hector
said Norman.


                    The edge of life is rusted;
 The agate studs and whisker ointment left him very much disgusted
Norman tried to call his companions to order, for they were close upon
the village, and he began to tax himself with unbecoming levity; the
effect of spirits pitched rather low, which did not easily find their
balance, under unwonted exhilaration, but Harry's antics were less
easily repressed than excited, and if Tom had not heard the Grange clock
strike half-past six, and had not been afraid of not having time to
array himself, and watch over Harry's neckcloth, they would hardly have
arrived in reasonable time. Dr. May had gone home, and there was no one
in the drawing-room; but, as Norman was following the boys upstairs,
Flora opened her sitting-room door, and attracted his attention by
silently putting her cold fingers into his hand, and drawing him into
the room
she said affectionately; but in a voice
so sunken, that all gladness seemed to be dead within, and the
effect was far more mournful than if she had not attempted to smile
congratulation
she said
The playfulness ill suited the wan, worn face that seemed to have caught
a gray tint from her rich poplin, her full toilet making the contrast
almost more painful; and, as she closed the door, her brother could only
exclaim
said the voice of the white figure that moved towards
him
said
Norman
said Meta
said Norman.

Meta sighed, and shook her head slightly, as she said
said
Norman
whispered Meta, venturing nearer to him, and
looking into his face with the sweet reliance of union in thought. She
meant him to proceed, but he paused, saying
Her dewy eyes, and face of deep emotion, owned that he had interpreted
her thought
he said
said Norman
Each was far too humble to deny aloud any inequality with the goodness
of Alan and Margaret, knowing that it would be at once disputed,
trusting to time to prevent the over-estimate, and each believing the
other was the one to bring the blessing
said Norman
said Meta, smiling
said Meta merrily
said Meta
added she, with a roguish look, at finding herself
making one of her saucy independent speeches
he answered, with a sort of teasing sweetness
said
Meta, very low
said
Norman
the tears rose to
his eyes, and he brought out the words with difficulty
said Meta, nevertheless holding him tighter
drawing back a little, and trying to
laugh off her feeling
After a few exclamations of utter surprise, it flashed on Norman
said Meta slowly, blushing deeper and deeper
she added, laughing, though
rather tearfully
said Meta
The gay taunt was cut short by a tap at the door, and Flora looked in
as she drew Meta's arm into her own, and added
Meta suspected that, in the wish to spare her, Flora had abstained from
seeking him.

The evening went off like any other evening -- people ate and talked,
thought Mrs. Rivers looking very ill, and Miss Rivers very pretty -- Flora
forced herself into being very friendly to Sir Henry, commiserating the
disappointment to which she had led him; and she hoped that he suspected
the state of affairs, though Tom, no longer supplanted by his elder
brother, pursued Meta into the sheltered nook, where Flora had favoured
her seclusion, to apologise for having left her to the guidance of poor
Norman, whose head was with the blackamoors. It was all Harry's fault
said Harry
said Tom, turning
round sharply
Harry checked himself, for Meta was colouring so painfully that his own
sunburned face caught the glow. He pushed Tom's slight figure aside with
a commanding move of his broad hand, and said
said Meta, rallying herself, and smiling
said Harry, sheltering his face by leaning over
the back of a chair, and taming the hearty gaiety of his voice
They were well out of sight, and Meta only answered by a good tight
squeeze of his kind hand between both her own. Tom, suddenly recovering
from his displeasure at being thrust aside, whisked round, dropped on a
footstool before Meta, looked up in her face, and said
in
such utter amazement that there was nothing for it but to laugh more
uncontrollably than was convenient
said Harry,
pulling him up by force
said Meta
Tom sat in a sort of trance all the rest of the evening.

Lord Cosham talked to Norman, who felt as if he were being patronised
on false pretences, drew into his shell, and displayed none of his
Dr. Spencer discussed his architecture with the archdeacon; but his
black eyes roamed heedfully after the young gentleman and lady, in the
opposite corners of the room; and, as he drove home afterwards with
the youths, he hummed scraps of Scottish songs, and indulged in silent
smiles.

Those at home had been far more demonstrative. Dr. May had arrived,
declaring himself the proudest doctor in her Majesty's dominions, and
Ethel needed nothing but his face to explain why, and tell her that dear
old June's troubles were over, and their pretty little Meta was their
own -- a joy little looked for to attend their foundation-stone.

The dreaded conference with Lord Cosham had proved highly gratifying.
There might be something in the fact that he could not help it,
which assisted in his ready acquiescence, but he was also a sensible
right-minded man, who thought that the largeness of Meta's fortune was
no reason that it should be doubled; considered that, in the matter of
connection, the May family had the advantage, and saw in Norman; a young
man whom any one might have pleasure in bringing forward. Oxford had
established confidence both in his character and talents, and his speech
had been such as to impress an experienced man, like Lord Cosham, with
an opinion of his powers, that prepared a welcome for him, such as no
one could have dared to expect. His lordship thought his niece not only
likely to be happier, but to occupy a more distinguished position with
such a man as Norman May, than with most persons of ready-made rank and
fortune.

The blushing and delighted Dr. May had thought himself bound to speak of
his son's designs, but he allowed that the project had been formed under
great distress of mind, and when he saw it treated by so good a man,
as a mere form of disappointed love, he felt himself reprieved from the
hardest sacrifice that he had ever been called on to make, loved little
Meta the better for restoring his son, and once more gave a free course
to the aspirations that Norman's brilliant boyhood had inspired. Richard
took the same view, and the evening passed away in an argument -- as if
any one had been disputing with them -- the father reasoning loud, the son
enforcing it low, that it had become Norman's duty to stay at home to
take care of Meta, whose father would have been horrified at his taking
her to the Antipodes. They saw mighty tasks for her fortune to effect
in England, they enhanced each other's anticipations of Norman's career,
overthrew abuses before him, heaped distinctions upon him, and had made
him Prime Minister and settled his policy, before ten o'clock brought
their schemes to a close.

Mary gazed and believed; Margaret lay still and gently assented; Ethel
was silent at first, and only when the fabric became extremely airy and
magnificent, put in her word with a vehement dash at the present abuses,
which grieved her spirit above all, and, whether vulnerable or not,
Norman was to dispose of, like so many giants before Mr. Great-heart.

She went upstairs, unable to analyse her sentiments. To be spared
the separation would be infinite relief -- all this prosperity made her
exult -- the fair girl at the Grange was the delight of her heart, and yet
there was a sense of falling off; she disliked herself for being either
glad or sorry, and could have quarrelled with the lovers for perplexing
her feelings so uncomfortably.

Though she sat up till the party returned, she was inclined to be
supposed in bed, so as to put off the moment of meeting; but Margaret,
who she hoped was asleep, said from her pillow
She ran down headlong, clutched Norman as he was taking off his
greatcoat, told him that Margaret wanted him, and dragged him up without
letting him go, till she reached the first landing, where she stood
still, saying breathlessly
said Ethel, claiming heartily his caress
The happy youth, in the flush of love and joy, bent gently, almost
tearfully, down in silence to the white form, half seen in the twilight,
whose hopes had fleeted away from earth, and who was calmly, softly
gliding after them. Hardly a word was uttered, but of all the many
heartfelt thoughts that had passed while the face was pressed into
Margaret's pillow, and her sympathising arms round the neck, surely none
was ever deeper, than was his prayer and vow that his affection should
be like hers, unearthly, and therefore enduring.

The embrace was all; Margaret must not be agitated, and, indeed, the
events of the day had been too much for her, and the ensuing morning
brought the fluttering of heart and prostration of strength, no longer
a novelty and occasion of immediate terror, but the token of the waning
power of life.

Till she was better, her father had no thoughts for aught else, but,
as with many another invalid, the relief from present distress was as
cheering as if it had been recovery, and ere night, her placid look
of repose had returned, and she was devising pretty greetings for her
newest Daisy.

Perhaps the sobering effect of these hours of anxiety was in Norman's
favour, on entering into conversation with his father. Those visions,
which had had their swing the night before, belonged to the earlier,
more untamed period of Dr. May's life, and had melted away in the dim
room, made sacred by lingering mementos of his wife, and in the sound of
that panting breath and throbbing heart. His vehemence had been, after
all, chiefly against his own misgivings, and when he heard of his son's
resolution, and Meta's more than acquiescence, he was greatly touched,
and recurred to his kind, sorrowful promise, that he would never be
a stumbling-block in the path of his children. Still he owned himself
greatly allured by the career proposed by Lord Cosham, and thought
Norman should consider the opportunities of doing good in, perhaps, a
still more important and extensive field than that which he had chosen
said Norman
said Norman
said Norman, smiling
said Norman
Of course Dr. May burst in with a political name, and
said Norman, laughing
said Dr. May
said Norman
confessed Dr. May, smiling
said Norman,
startled
Norman fared better with the uncle than he had expected. Lord Cosham, as
a philanthropist, could not, with any consistency, set his face against
missions, even when the cost came so near home; and he knew that
opposition made the like intentions assume a heroic aspect that
maintained them in greater force. He therefore went over the subject
in a calm dispassionate manner, which exacted full and grateful
consideration from the young man.

The final compromise was, that nothing should be settled for a year,
during which Norman would complete his course of study, and the matter
might be more fully weighed. Mrs. Arnott would probably return, and
bring experience and judgment, which would, or ought to, decide the
question -- though Meta had a secret fear that it might render it more
complicated than ever. However, the engagement and the mission views had
both been treated so much more favourably than could have been hoped,
that they felt themselves bound to be patient and forbearing. As Meta
said
Lord Cosham made his niece listen to a kind exhortation not to press her
influence towards a decision that might be repented, when too late to be
repaired, without a degrading sense of failure -- putting her in mind of
the privations that would lose romance by their pettiness, and which
money could not remedy; and very sensibly representing that the effect
of these on temper and health was to be duly considered as a serious
impediment to usefulness
said Meta
said her uncle
said Meta firmly
sighed her uncle
Her uncle shook his head, but did not try to say any more. George
had begun by loud exclamations against the project, in which he was
vehemently abetted by Tom, who primed him with all sorts of outrageous
abuse of the niggers and cannibals, who would make Norman's coats out of
all shape, and devour little Meta at a mouthful -- predictions which Meta
accepted most merrily, talking of herself so resignedly, as bound upon
a spit, and calling out to be roasted slower and faster, that she safely
conducted off their opposition by way of a standing joke. As to Norman's
coats, she threatened to make them herself, and silenced Tom for ever
by supposing, in malicious simplicity, that he must be able to teach her
the most unexceptional cut.

Flora kept her opinions to herself. Only once, when urged to
remonstrate, she said
She was gently and touchingly considerate towards the lovers, silently
but unobtrusively obviating all that could jar on their feelings, and
employing her exquisite tact in the kindest manner.

She released Meta from the expedition to Ryde, silencing scruples on
the one hand, by a suggestion of
and, on the other,
by offering to exchange her for Mary. The first proposal made Mary take
such a spring in her chair, with eyes so round, and cheeks so red, and
such a shriek about Harry and the Bucephalus, that no one could have
borne to say one word in opposition, even if it had not been the opinion
of the Council that sea air would best repair Mary's strength.

Ethel had some private fears of a scene, since it was one of Miss
Bracy's idiosyncrasies to be hurt whenever Mary was taken out of her
hands; and she went to announce the design, in dread lest this shock
should destroy the harmony that had prevailed for many months; nay, she
almost believed, since the loss of the Alcestis had been known.

She was agreeably surprised. Miss Bracy thought Mary in need of the
change, and discussed both her and Blanche in so pleasant and sensible
a manner, that Ethel was quite relieved. She partook in Mary's
anticipations of pleasure, forwarded her preparations, and was delighted
with her promise of letters -- promises that Mary bestowed so largely,
in the fullness of her heart, that there were fears lest her whole time
should be spent in writing.

Her soft heart indulged in a shower of tears when she wished them all
good-bye; and Ethel and Blanche found the house was very empty without
her; but that was only till Meta came in from a walk with Norman, and,
under the plea of trying to supply Mary's place, did the work of five
Maries, and a great deal besides.

Nothing could be happier than Meta's visit, brightening the house so
that the Mays thought they had never known half her charms, helping
whatever was going on, yet ready to play with Daisy, tell stories to
Aubrey, hear Tom's confidences, talk to Margaret, read with Norman, and
teach Richard singing for his school children. The only vexation was,
that every one could not always engross her entirely; and Dr. May used
to threaten that they should never spare her to that long-legged fellow,
Norman.

She had persuaded Bellairs to go and take care of Flora and Mary,
instead of the French maid -- a plan which greatly satisfied Margaret, who
had never liked the looks of Coralie, and which Meta held to be a grand
emancipation. She persuaded old nurse to teach her to be useful, and
Margaret used to declare that she witnessed scenes as good as a play in
her room, where the little dexterous scholar, apparently in jest, but
really in sober, earnest, wiled instruction from the old woman; and made
her experiments, between smiles and blushes, and merrily glorying in
results that promised that she would be a notable housewife. Whether
it were novelty or not, she certainly had an aptitude and delight in
domestic details, such as Ethel never could attain; and, as Dr. May
said, the one performed by a little finger what the other laboured at
with a great mind.

In the schoolroom, Meta was as highly appreciated. She found an hour
for helping Blanche in her music, and for giving, what was still more
useful, an interest and spirit to studies, where, it must be owned, poor
good Mary had been a dead weight. She enlivened Miss Bracy so much, and
so often contrived a walk or a talk with her, that the saucy Blanche
told Hector that she thought Ethel would be quite second-fiddle with
Miss Bracy.

No such thing. Miss Bracy's great delight was in having a listener
for her enthusiasm about Miss Ethel. She had been lately having a
correspondence with a former school-fellow, who was governess in a
family less considerate than the Mays, and who poured out, in her
letters, feelings much like those with which Miss Bracy had begun.

Nothing could be more salutary than to find herself repeating all
Ethel's pieces of advice; and, one day, when her friend had been more
distressed than usual, she called Ethel herself, to consult on her
answer, owning how much she was reminded of herself
she added
said Ethel, laughing her awkward laugh
said Ethel, breaking in
said Miss Bracy
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Ethel.

Ethel made Miss Bracy happy by a kiss before she left her. It was a
cheering belief that, whatever the future trials of her life might
be, the gentle little lady would meet them with a healthier mind, more
vigorous in overlooking troubles and without punctilious sensitiveness
on the lookout for affronts
would be to her the true secret
of serenity of spirits.

Ethel might not have been blameless or consistent in her dealings in
this difficult intercourse, but her kind heart, upright intention, and
force of character, had influence far beyond her own perception. Indeed,
she knew not that she had personal influence at all, but went on in her
own straightforward humility
SOUTHEY.


Etheldred May and Meta Rivers were together in the drawing-room. The
timepiece pointed towards ten o'clock, but the tea-things were on the
table, prepared for a meal, the lamp shone with a sort of consciousness,
and Ethel moved restlessly about, sometimes settling her tea equipage,
sometimes putting away a stray book, or resorting by turns to her book,
or to work a red and gold scroll on coarse canvas, on the other end of
which Meta was employed
said Meta, looking up with a merry provoking smile,
knowing how much the word would displease
retorted Ethel, preferring to carry the war into the
enemy's quarters
said Meta, laughing
said Ethel
said Meta, blushing, and looking down
said Ethel
said Meta, looking up with a sudden beamy flash of
her dark eyes
she
added, rather falteringly
said Meta
and her voice became
tremulous
asked Ethel
said Ethel
said Meta, brightening and laughing, but sighing
said
Ethel, surveying the little elegant figure, whose great characteristic
was a look of exquisite finish, not only in the features and colouring,
the turn of the head, and the shape of the small rosy-tipped fingers,
but in everything she wore, from the braids of black silk hair, to the
little shoe on her foot, and even in the very lightness and gaiety of
her movements
cried Meta, springing up in dismay, and looking at herself
in the glass
said Ethel
said Meta, much amused
said Ethel contemptuously
said Meta
Ethel crimsoned, and made a sign with her hand, exclaiming
Ethel breathed short,
and wandered aimlessly about; Meta put her arm round her waist
she said
Meta stroked her, and soothed her, and assured her that all would do
well, and presently they heard the click of the door. Ethel flew into
the hall, where she stopped short, her heart beating high at the sound
of overpoweringly familiar accents.

She was almost relieved by detecting otherwise little resemblance; the
height was nearly the same, but there was not the plump softness of
outline. Mrs. Arnott was small, thin, brisk and active, with a vivacious
countenance, once evidently very fair and pretty, but aged and worn by
toil, not trouble, for the furrows were the traces of smiles around her
merry mouth, and beautiful blue eyes, that had a tendency lo laugh and
cry both at once. Dr. May who had led her into the light, seemed to be
looking her all over, while Richard was taking the wraps from her, and
Ethel tried to encourage herself to go forward
said the doctor, kissing her
said she
There was an unspeakable joy in being pressed in Aunt Flora's arms, like
a returning beam from the sunshine of seven years ago
as she advanced into the drawing-room
said Meta, as Mrs. Arnott
stood with an arm on her shoulder, in the midst of an embrace, Dr. May
enjoying her perplexity and Meta's blushes
exclaimed Mrs. Arnott; and though she kissed her
cordially, Meta suspected a little doubt and disappointment
said Dr. May
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Richard; the precision of the date marking but
too well the consciousness that it was an epoch
said Dr. May
Mrs. Arnott looked at him as if longing, but dreading, to ask further,
and allowed her nephew and niece to seat her at the table, and attend to
her wants, before she spoke again
said Dr. May
pleaded Ethel, distressed
said Dr. May
Seeing that Ethel took the imputation to heart, Meta rejoined
said Ethel
said Richard
maliciously observed the doctor
said Ethel
Mrs. Arnott looked from one to the other, amused, observant, and
perceiving that they were all under that form of shyness which brings up
family wit to hide embarrassment or emotion
she asked
said Dr. May
said Dr. May gravely
said Richard
said his aunt
said Dr. May
said Ethel
quoted Meta
exclaimed Mrs.
Arnott
said Dr. May, almost
inarticulately.

To see her father so happy with Mrs. Arnott necessarily drew Ethel's
heart towards her; and, when they had bidden him goodnight, the aunt
instantly assumed a caressing confidence towards Ethel, particularly
comfortable to one consciously backward and awkward, and making her feel
as intimate as if the whole space of her rational life had not elapsed
since their last meeting
said her aunt, detaining her over her fire
said Ethel mournfully
said Ethel
said Mrs. Arnott, putting her arm round her niece's
waist.

Ethel rested her head on her shoulder
added Ethel, not able to leave off with such a
subject
broke in Ethel
continued Ethel
continued the niece
said Ethel
fondly
Ethel stopped short, and said that she must not keep Margaret expecting
her. Perhaps her aunt guessed that she had touched the true chord of
anxiety.

The morning brought a cheering account of Margaret; and Mrs. Arnott was
to see her directly after breakfast. In the meantime, the firm limbs,
blue eyes, and rosy face of Gertrude seemed a fair representation of the
little bride's-maid, whom she remembered.

A very different niece did she find upstairs, though the smiling,
overflowing eyes, and the fond, eager look of recognition, as if
asking to be taken to her bosom, had in them all the familiarity of old
tenderness
Mrs. Arnott fondly caressed her, but could not speak at first, for
even her conversation with Ethel had not prepared her for so wasted and
broken an appearance. Dr. May spoke briskly of Margaret's having behaved
very well and slept like a good child, told Margaret where he had to
go that morning, and pointed out to Mrs. Arnott some relics of herself
still remaining; but the nervous tremulousness of manner did not much
comfort her, although Margaret answered cheerfully. Nothing was so
effectual in composing the aunt as Aubrey's coming headlong in to
announce the gig, and to explain to Margaret his last design for a
cathedral -- drawing plans being just now his favourite sport
said Margaret, as her father
hurried away
said Mrs.
Arnott, following her niece's lead
cried Margaret, lighting up
said Aubrey
said Margaret; and, Aunt Flora
helping, the great cumbersome thing was placed beside her, whilst she
smiled and welcomed it like a child, and began an eager exhibition. Was
it not a beautiful little pierced spire?-- that was an extravagance of
Dr. Spencer's own. Papa said he could not ask Captain Gordon to sanction
it -- the model did it no justice, but it was so very beautiful in the
rich creamy stone rising up on the moor, and the blue sky looking
through, and it caught the sunset lights so beautifully. So animated was
her description, that Mrs. Arnott could not help asking
said Margaret, with her sweet smile
explained Aubrey, unconscious that the
meaning was deeper than his sister could express, and he continued
Ethel came up as Aubrey began to absorb the conversation
she said
said Margaret
said Ethel
said Aubrey,
running off without much reluctance
said Mrs. Arnott
said Mrs. Arnott
said Margaret, waiting
said Margaret, delighted
said Mrs. Arnott, smiling
cried Margaret
said Mrs. Arnott
said Margaret, very low; and her aunt abstained from
remark, though unable to look, without tears, at the ship of the
Apostles, the calming of the storm, and the scroll, with the verse:


         He bringeth them unto the haven where they would be.


Beneath were the initials
and the date of the year, the
only memorials of the founder.

Margaret next drew attention to St. Andrew with his cross -- Meta's gift
she said
Thus Margaret proceeded with the description of everything in the
church, and all the little adventures of the building, as if she could
not turn away from the subject; and her aunt listened and wondered, and,
when called away, that Margaret might rest before nurse came to dress
her, she expressed her wonder to Meta
was the answer
Mrs. Arnott saw that Meta was right, when, in the afternoon, she walked
with her nieces to see Cocksmoor. It was not a desolate sight as in
old times, for the fair edifice, rising on the slope, gave an air of
protection to the cottages, which seemed now to have a centre of unity,
instead of lying forlorn and scattered. Nor were they as wretched in
themselves, for the impulse of civilisation had caused windows to be
mended and railings to be tidied, and Richard promoted, to the utmost,
cottage gardening, so that, though there was an air of poverty, there
was no longer an appearance of reckless destitution and hopeless
neglect.

In the cottages, Mrs. Taylor had not entirely ceased to speak with a
piteous voice, even though she told of the well-doing of her girls at
service; but Granny Hall's merry content had in it something now of
principle, and Sam had married a young Fordholm wife, who promised to
be a pattern for Cocksmoor. Every one asked after Miss May, with a
tenderness and affection that Mrs. Arnott well appreciated; and when
they went into the large fresh school, where Richard was hearing a
class, Cherry Elwood looked quite cheered and enlivened by hearing
that she had been able to enjoy seeing her aunt. Mrs. Arnott was set to
enlighten the children about the little brown girls whom she was wont
to teach, and came away with a more brilliant impression of their
intelligence than she might have had, if she had not come to them fresh
from the Antipodes.

She had to tell Margaret all her impressions on her return, and very
pretty smiles repaid her commendations. She understood better the
constant dwelling on the subject, as she perceived how little capable
Margaret was of any employment. The book, the writing materials, and
work-basket were indeed placed by her side, but very seldom did the
feeble fingers engage in any of the occupations once so familiar -- now
and then a pencilled note would be sent to Flora, or to Hector
Ernescliffe, or a few stitches be set in her work, or a page or two
turned of a book, but she was far more often perfectly still, living,
assuredly in no ordinary sphere of human life, but never otherwise than
cheerful, and open to the various tidings and interests which, as Ethel
had formerly said, shifted before her like scenes in a magic lantern,
and, perhaps, with less of substance than in those earlier days, when
her work among them was not yet done, and she was not, as it were, set
aside from them. They were now little more than shadows reflected from
the world whence she was passing.

Yet her home was not sad. When Dr. Spencer came in the evening, and
old Edinburgh stories were discussed, Dr. May talked with spirit, and
laughed with the merry note that Mrs. Amott so well remembered, and Meta
Rivers chimed in with her gay, saucy repartees, nor, though Richard was
always silent, and Ethel's brow seemed to bear a weight of thought, did
it seem as if their spirits were depressed; while there was certainly no
restraint on the glee of Blanche, Aubrey, and Gertrude, who were running
into Margaret's room, and making as much noise there as they chose.

Mrs. Arnott was at home with the whole family from the first, and in
every one's confidence; but what she enjoyed above all was, the
sitting in Margaret's room in the morning, when there was no danger
of interruption, the three children being all safe captives to their
lessons, and Meta, in Richard's workshop, illuminating texts on zinc
scrolls for the church.

Margaret came out more in these interviews. It had been a kind of
shyness that made her talk so exclusively of the church at the first
meeting; she had now felt her way, and knew again -- and realised -- the
same kind aunt with whom she had parted in her childhood, and now far
dearer, since she herself was better able to appreciate her, and with
a certain resemblance to her mother, that was unspeakably precious and
soothing to one deprived, as Margaret had been, at the commencement of
her illness and anxiety.

She could hardly see her aunt come near her, without thanking her for
having come home, and saying how every time she awoke it was with the
sense that something was comfortable, then remembering it was Aunt
Flora's being in the house. She seemed to have a feeling, as if telling
everything to her aunt were like rendering up her account to her mother,
and, at different times, she related the whole, looking back on the
various decisions she had had to make or to influence, and reviewing
her own judgments, though often with self-blame, not with acuteness
of distress, but rather with a humble trust in the Infinite Mercy that
would atone for all shortcomings and infirmities, truly sorrowed for.

On the whole it was a peaceful and grateful retrospect; the brothers all
doing so well in their several ways, and such a comfort to their father.
Tom, concerning whom she had made the greatest mistake, might be looked
upon as rescued by Norman. Aubrey, Margaret said, smiling, was Ethel's
child, and had long been off her mind; Hector, to her quite a brother,
would miss her almost more than her own brothers, but good honest
fellow, he had a home here; and, whispered Margaret, smiling and glowing
a little
Mrs. Arnott gave no opinion on the plan for Norman and Meta; but
Margaret, however, took all for granted, and expressed warm hopes for
their sakes, that they would go out with Mrs. Arnott; then, when the
suggestion seemed to astonish her aunt, who thought they were waiting
for his ordination, she said
As to her father, Margaret was at rest. He had much more calmness than
when he was more new to grief, and could bear far more patiently and
hopefully than at first. He lived more on his affections above, and
much as he loved those below, he did not rest in them as once, and could
better afford to have been removed
said Margaret serenely
For herself, Margaret was perfectly content and happy. She knew the
temptation of her character had been to be the ruler and manager of
everything, and she saw it had been well for her to have been thus
assigned the part of Mary rather than of Martha. She remembered with
thankful joy the engagement with Alan Ernescliffe, and though she still
wore tokens of mourning for him, it was with a kind of pleasure in them.
There had been so little promise of happiness from the first, that there
was far more peace in thinking of him as sinking into rest in Harry's
arms, than as returning to grieve over her decline; and that last gift
of his, the church, had afforded her continual delight, and above all
other earthly pursuits, smoothed away the languor and weariness of
disease, as she slowly sank to join him. Now that her aunt had come to
bring back a sunbeam of her childhood, Margaret declared that she had no
more grief or care, except one, and that a very deep and sad one -- namely
poor Flora.

Mrs. Arnott had at first been inclined to fear that her goddaughter was
neglecting her own family, since she had not been at home this whole
year, but the slightest betrayal of this suspicion roused Margaret to
an eager defence. She had not a doubt that Flora would gladly have been
with her, but she believed that she was not acting by her own choice,
or more truly, that her husband was so devoted to her, that she felt the
more bound to follow his slightest wishes, however contrary to her own.
The season had been spent in the same whirl that had, last year,
been almost beyond human power, even when stimulated by enjoyment
and success; and now, when her spirits were lowered, and her health
weakened, Meta had watched and trembled for her, though never able
to obtain an avowal that it was an overstrain, and while treated most
affectionately, never admitted within her barrier of reserve
Margaret said, sighing
The consecration day came near, and the travellers began to return. Meta
was in a state of restlessness, which in her was very pretty, under the
disguise of a great desire to be useful. She fluttered about the house,
visited Margaret, played with Gertrude, set the drawing-room ornaments
to rights -- a task which Ethel was very glad to depute to her, and made
a great many expeditions into the garden to put together autumn nosegays
for the vases -- finally discovering that Ethel's potichomanie vases on
the staircase window must have some red and brown leaves.

She did not come back quite so soon with them, and Mrs. Arnott, slyly
looking out of window, reported
said Dr. May, laughing
said Dr. May
said Dr. May
Meta rather liked, than otherwise, those pretty teasings of Dr. May,
but they always made Norman colour extremely, and he parried them by
announcing news
cried Ethel
said Ethel
repeated Meta
said Ethel
said Dr. May
said Meta
said Norman
said the doctor
exclaimed Meta
said Dr. May
said Norman eagerly
said Ethel, coming to her brother's side
was Meta's answer
said Norman; and, as Mrs.
Arnott proceeded to inquiries after the Ogilvies in general, the master
of Glenbracken was allowed to drop.

Meta, however, renewed the subject when walking to the minster that
evening with Norman
said Norman
said Norman
half whispered
Meta
He laughed
said Meta
Norman was right in his view of his friend's motives, as well as of
Ethel's present feelings. If there had ever been any disappointment
about Norman Ogilvie, it had long since faded away. She had never given
away the depths of her heart, though the upper surface had been stirred.
All had long subsided, and she could think freely of him as an
agreeable cousin, in whose brilliant public career she should always be
interested, without either a wish to partake it, or a sense of injury
or neglect. She had her vocation, in her father, Margaret, the children,
home, and Cocksmoor; her mind and affections were occupied, and she
never thought of wishing herself elsewhere.

The new church and the expected return of her sisters engrossed many
more of her thoughts than did anything relating to Glenbracken.

She could not bear to talk of Flora, though almost as uneasy as was
Margaret; and not able to lay aside misgivings, lest even her good
simple Mary might have had her head turned by gaiety.

Mr. and Mrs. Rivers arrived on the Saturday before the Tuesday fixed
for the consecration, and stopped on their way, that they might see
Margaret, deposit Mary, and resume Meta.

It was a short visit, and all that Ethel could discover was, that Flora
was looking very ill, no longer able to conceal the worn and fagged
expression of her countenance, and evidently dreadfully shocked by the
sight of the havoc made by disease on Margaret's frame. Yet she talked
with composure of indifferent subjects -- the yacht, the visits, the
Bucephalus, the church, and the arrangements for St. Andrew's Day. She
owned herself overworked, and in need of rest, and, as she was not well
enough to venture on being present at the consecration, she undertook
to spend the day with Margaret, thus setting the others at liberty. This
settled, she took her leave, for the journey had fatigued her greatly.

During the short visit, Mary had moved and spoken so quietly, and looked
so well-dressed and young-lady-like, that, in spite of her comfortable
plump cheeks, Ethel felt quite afraid!

But the instant the carriage had driven off, there was a skipping, a
hugging, a screaming
and
Ethel knew she had her own Mary. It was only a much better looking
and more mannerly Mary, in the full bloom of seventeen, open and
honest-faced, her profuse light hair prettily disposed, her hands and
arms more civilised, and her powers of conversation and self-possession
developed. Mary-like were her caresses of Gertrude, Mary-like her
inquiries for Cocksmoor, Mary-like her insisting on bringing her boxes
into Margaret's room, her exulting exhibition of all the pretty things
that Flora and George had given to her, and the still more joyous
bestowal of presents upon everybody.

Her tastes were not a whit altered, nor her simplicity diminished. If
she was pleased by joining a large dinner-party, her satisfaction was
in the amusement of seeing well-dressed people, and a grand table; her
knowledge of the world only reached to pronouncing everything unlike
home
she had relished most freshly and innocently every
pleasure that she could understand, she had learned every variety of
fancy work to teach Blanche and Miss Bracy, had been the delight
of every schoolroom and nursery, had struck up numberless eternal
friendships, and correspondences with girls younger and shyer than
herself, and her chief vexations seemed to have been first, that Flora
insisted on her being called Miss May, secondly, that all her delights
could not be shared by every one at home, and thirdly, that poor Flora
could not bear to look at little children.

Grievous complaints were preferred by the dwellers in the attics the
next morning, that Mary and Blanche had talked to an unmentionable hour
of the night; but, on the whole, Blanche was rather doubtful whether
Mary had made the most of her opportunities of observation
Behold, with pearls they glittering stand,
     Thy peaceful gates to all expand,
     By grace and strength divinely shed,
     Each mortal thither may be led;
     Who, kindled by Christ's love, will dare
     All earthly sufferings now to bear.

     By many a salutary stroke,
     By many a weary blow, that broke,
     Or polished, with a workman's skill,
     The stones that form that glorious pile;
     They all are fitly framed to lie
     In their appointed place on high.
             Ancient Hymn for the Dedication of a Church.


The thirtieth of November dawned with the grave brightness of an autumn
day, as the sun slowly mounted from the golden east, drinking up the
mists that rose tardily, leaving the grass thickly bedewed.

The bells of Stoneborough Minster were ringing gladsome peals, and the
sunshine had newly touched the lime trees, whose last bright yellow
leaves were gently floating down, as the carriage, from the Grange, drew
up at Dr. May's door.

Norman opened it, to claim Meta at once for the walk; Mrs. Arnott and
Mary had gone on to assist Richard in his final arrangements, but even
before Cocksmoor, with Ethel, was now the care of Margaret; and she had
waited with her father to keep all bustle from her room, and to commit
her into the charge of Flora and of nurse. Ethel seemed quite unwilling
to go. There was that strange oppressed feeling on her as if the
attainment of her wishes were joy too great to be real -- as if she would
fain hold off from it at the climax, and linger with the sister who
had shared all with her, and to whom that church was even more than
to herself. She came back, and back again, with fresh injunctions,
sometimes forgetting the very purpose of her return, as if it had been
only an excuse for looking at Margaret's countenance, and drinking in
her sympathy from her face; but she was to go in George's carriage,
and he was not a man to allow of loitering. He became so impatient of
Ethel's delays, that she perceived that he could bear them no longer,
gave her final kiss, and whispered
then ran down
and was seized on by George, who had already packed in the children and
Miss Bracy, and was whirled away
said Margaret
Flora threw it up, protesting, in reply to her sister's scruples, that
she liked the air
said Margaret fondly
she added, as
Flora complied; and she took her hand and fondled it
said Flora
said Margaret
and she looked in her sister's face as she
spoke.

Flora did not reply, but she lay quite still, as if there were a charm
in the perfect rest of being alone with Margaret, making no effort, and
being able to be silent. Time passed on, how long they knew not, but,
suddenly, a thrill shot through Margaret's frame; she raised her hand
and lifted her head, with an eager
Flora could hear nothing
said Margaret, all one radiant look of
listening, as Flora opened the window further, and the breeze wafted in
the chime, softened by distance. The carnation tinted those thin white
cheeks, eyes and smile beamed with joy, and uplifted finger and parted
lips seemed marking every note of the cadence.

It ceased
said she
The somewhat alarmed look on Flora's face recalled her, and, smiling,
she held out her hands for the consecration books, saying
Slowly, softly, and rather monotonously, Flora read on, till she had
come more than half through the first lesson. Her voice grew husky, and
she sometimes paused as if she could not easily proceed. Margaret begged
her to stop, but she would not cease, and went on reading, though almost
whispering, till she came to
Flora could go no further; she strove, but one of her tearless sobs
cut her short. She turned her face aside, and, as Margaret began to say
something tender, she exclaimed, with low, hasty utterance
The words had burst from Flora uncontrollably. She was aware, the next
instant, that she had given way to harmful agitation, and, resuming her
quiescence, partly by her own will, partly from the soothing effect of
Margaret's words and tone, she allowed herself to be drawn close to
her sister, and hid her face in the pillow, while Margaret's hands were
folded over her, and words of blessing and prayer were whispered with a
fervency that made them broken.

Ethel, meanwhile, stood between Aubrey and Gertrude, hardly able to
believe it was not a dream, as she beheld the procession enter the
aisle, and heard the psalm that called on those doors to lift up
their heads for Him who should enter. There was an almost bewildered
feeling -- could it indeed be true, as she followed the earlier part
of the service, which set apart that building as a temple for ever,
separate from all common uses. She had imagined the scene so often
that she could almost have supposed the present, one of her many
imaginations; but, by and by, the strangeness passed off, and she was
able to enter into, not merely to follow, the prayers, and to feel the
deep thanksgiving that such had been the crown of her feeble efforts.
Margaret was in her mind the whole time, woven, as it were, into
every supplication and every note of praise; and when there came the
intercession for those in sickness and suffering, flowing into the
commemoration of those departed in faith and fear, Ethel's spirit sank
for a moment at the conviction that soon Margaret, like him, whom all
must bear in mind on that day, might be included in that thanksgiving;
yet, as the service proceeded, leaving more and more of earth behind,
and the voices joined with angel and archangel, Ethel could lose the
present grief, and only retain the certainty that, come what might,
there was joy and union amid those who sung that hymn of praise. Never
had Ethel been so happy -- not in the sense of the finished work -- no, she
had lost all that, but in being more carried out of herself than ever
she had been before, the free spirit of praise so bearing up her heart
that the cry of glory came from her with such an exultant gladness, as
might surely be reckoned as one of those foretastes of our everlasting
life, not often vouchsafed even to the faithful, and usually sent to
prepare strength for what may be in store.

The blessing brought the sense of peace, which hung on her even while
the sounds of movement began, and the congregation were emerging. As
she came out, greetings, sentences of admiration of the church, and of
inquiry for her absent sisters, were crowded upon her, as people moved
towards the school, where a luncheon was provided for them, to pass away
the interval until evening service. The half-dozen oldest Cocksmoorites
were, meantime, to have a dinner in the former schoolroom, at the
Elwoods' house, and Ethel was anxious so see that all was right there;
so, while the rest of her party were doing civil things, she gave her
arm to Cherry, whose limping walk showed her to be very tired
said Cherry
said Ethel
said Ethel.

More might have been said, but they perceived that they were being
overtaken by the body of clergy, who had been unrobing in the vestry.
Ethel hastened to retreat within Mrs. Elwood's wicket gate, but she was
arrested by Richard, and found herself being presented to the bishop,
and the bishop shaking hands with her, and saying that he had much
wished to be introduced to her.

Of course, that was because she was her father's daughter, and by way
of something to say. She mentioned what was going on at the cottage,
whereupon the bishop wished to go in and see the old people; and,
entering, they found the very comfortable-looking party just sitting
down to roast-beef and goose. John Taylor, in a new black coat, on
account of his clerkship, presiding at one end, and Mr. Elwood at the
other, and Dame Hall finding conversation for the whole assembly; while
Blanche, Aubrey, Gertrude, the little Larkinses, and the Abbotstoke
Wilmots were ready to act as waiters with infinite delight. Not a bit
daunted by the bishop, who was much entertained by her merry manner, old
granny told him
The bishop said grace, and left granny to the goose, while he gave Ethel
his arm, which she would have thought an unaccountable proceeding if she
had not recollected that Richard might be considered as host, and that
she was his eldest sister forthcoming.


No sooner, however, had they come beyond the wicket than she saw her
father speaking to Will Adams, and there was that in the air of both
which made it no surprise when Dr. May came up, saying
and, in explanation to the bishop
All was inquiry and sympathy. Ethel was frantic to be at home, and would
have rushed off at once, if Richard had not held her fast, asking what
good she would do by hurrying in, breathless and exhausted, so as to add
to Flora's fright and distress, the anxiety which was most upon their
minds, since she had never before witnessed one of the seizures, that
were only too ordinary matters in the eyes of the home party. No one but
Dr. May and Ethel should go. Richard undertook to tell the rest, and the
gig making its appearance, Ethel felt that the peculiarly kind manner
with which the bishop pressed her hand, and gave them all good wishes,
was like a continuation of his blessing to aid her in her home scene of
trial.

Perhaps, it was well for her that her part in the consecration
festivities should end here; at least so thought Mr. Wilmot, who, though
very sorry for the cause, could not wish her to have been present at the
luncheon. She had not thought of self hitherto, the church was the gift
of Alan and Margaret, the work of preparing the people belonged to all
alike, and she did not guess that, in the sight of others, she was not
the nobody that she believed herself. Her share in the work at Cocksmoor
was pretty well known, and Dr. Hoxton could not allow a public occasion
to pass without speeches, such as must either have been very painful,
or very hurtful to her. The absence of herself and her father, however,
permitted a more free utterance to the general feeling; and things were
said, that did indeed make the rest of the family extremely hot and
uncomfortable, but which gave them extreme pleasure. Norman was obliged
to spare Richard the answer, and said exactly what he ought, and so
beautifully, that Meta could not find it in her heart to echo the
fervent wish, which he whispered as he sat down, that speechifying could
be abolished by Act of Parliament.

Mrs. Arnott began to perceive that her nephew was something to be proud
of, and to understand how much was sacrificed, while George Rivers
expressed his opinion to her that Norman would be a crack speaker in the
House, and he hoped she would say everything to hinder his going out,
for it was a regular shame to waste him on the niggers.

Owing to George having constituted himself her squire, Mrs. Arnott had
not arrived at an understanding of the state of affairs at home; but,
as soon as they rose up from luncheon, and she learned the truth from
Richard and Mary, nothing would hinder her from walking home at once to
see whether she could be useful. Mary was easily persuaded to remain,
for she was accustomed to Margaret's having these attacks, and had
always been kept out of her room the while, so she had little uneasiness
to prevent her from being very happy, in receiving in her own simple,
good-humoured way all the attentions that lapsed upon her in the place
of her elder sisters
was note enough of joy for her, and
no one could look at her round face without seeing perfect happiness.
Moreover, when after evening service, the November mist turned into
decided rain, she was as happy as a queen in her foresight, which had
provided what seemed an unlimited supply of cloaks and umbrellas. She
appeared to have an original genius for making the right people give a
lift in their carriages to the distressed; and, regarding the Abbotstoke
britska as her own, packed in Mrs. Anderson and Fanny, in addition
to all their own little ones, Meta thrusting Miss Bracy into the
demi-corner destined for herself at the last minute, and, remaining with
Mary, the only ladies obliged to walk back to Stoneborough. So delighted
were they
that it might have been thought the most
charming of adventures, and they laughed all the more at the lack
of umbrellas. They went to Mrs. Elwood's, divested themselves of all
possible finery, and tucked up the rest; Meta was rolled up from head to
foot in a great old plaid shawl of Mrs. Elwood's, and Mary had a cloak
of Richard's, the one took Norman's arm, the other Dr. Spencer's, and
they trudged home through the darkness and the mud in the highest glee,
quite sorry when the carriage met them half-way.

It was the last mirth that they enjoyed for many weeks. When they
reached home, a sense of self-reproach for their glee thrilled over
them, when they found a sort of hush pervading the drawing-room, and saw
the faces of awe and consternation, worn by Blanche and George Rivers
was
all that Blanche knew, but her father had desired to be told when Dr.
Spencer came home, and she went up with the tidings.

This brought Flora down, looking dreadfully pale, and with her voice
sunk away as it had been when she lost her child. Her husband started
up, exclaiming at her aspect; she let him support her to the sofa, and
gave the few particulars. Margaret had been as placid and comfortable as
usual, till nurse came to dress her, but the first move had brought on
the faintness and loss of breath. It did not yield to remedies, and
she had neither looked nor spoken since, only moaned. Flora thought her
father much alarmed; and then, after an interval, she began to entreat
that they might stay there, sending Miss Bracy and the children to the
Grange to make room.

Meantime, Dr. Spencer had come to the sick-room, but he could only
suggest remedies that were already in course of application to the
insensible sufferer. Mrs. Arnott and Ethel were watching, and trying
everything to relieve her, but with little effect, and Ethel presently
stood by the fire with her father, as Dr. Spencer turned towards him,
and he said, in a very low, but calm voice
said Dr. Spencer
said Dr. May; and he quietly spoke of what the disease had
effected, and what yet remained for it to do, ere the silver bowl should
be broken.

Dr. Spencer put in a word of agreement
said Ethel, in the same tone
said Dr. May
Dr. Spencer bowed his head, and looked at him anxiously, saying
said Dr. May, sighing; and then turning to
Ethel, and throwing his arm round her
Ethel clung to him, as if to derive strength from him. But the strength
that was in them then did not come from earth. Dr. Spencer wrung his
hand, and stepped back to the bed to try another resource. Vain again,
they only seemed to be tormenting her, and the silent helplessness
prevailed again. Then Dr. May went down to Flora, told her the true
state of the case, and urged on her to give up her plan of remaining.
George joined with him, and she yielded submissively, but would not be
refused going up once again and kissing her sister, standing beside her
gazing at her, till her father came softly and drew her away
she said to Ethel, and went.

The morrow, however, brought no Flora. The agitation and distress of
that day had broken her down completely, and she was so ill as to be
unable to move. Her aunt went at once to see her, and finding that her
presence at the Grange relieved some of Dr. May's anxieties, chiefly
devoted herself to her. Flora was grateful and gentle, but as silent
and impenetrable as ever, while day after day she lay on her couch,
uncomplaining and undemonstrative, visited by her father, and watched
over by her aunt and sister-in-law, who began to know each other much
better, though Flora less than ever, in that deep fixed grief. She only
roused herself to return her husband's affection, or to listen to the
daily reports of Margaret. Poor George, he was very forlorn, though Meta
did her best to wait on him, and he rode over twice a day to inquire at
Stoneborough.

The doctors were right, and the consecration morning was her last of
full consciousness. From the hour when she had heard the sound of Alan's
bells, her ears were closed to earthly sounds. There was very little
power of intercourse with her, as she lingered on the borders of the
land very far away, where skill and tenderness could not either reach
body or spirit. Often the watchers could not tell whether she was
conscious, or only incapacitated from expression, by the fearful weight
on her breath, which caused a restlessness most piteous in the exhausted
helpless frame, wasted till the softest touch was anguish. Now and
then came precious gleams when a familiar voice, or some momentary
alleviation would gain a smile, or thanks, and they thought her less
restless when Richard read prayers beside her, but words were very rare,
only now and then a name, and when in most distress
occurred so often, that they began to
think it once her solace, and now repeated habitually without a meaning.

They could not follow her into the valley of the shadow of death, but
could only watch the frail earthly prison-house being broken down, as if
the doom of sin must be borne, though faith could trust that it was but
her full share in the Cross. Calmly did those days pass. Ethel, Richard,
and Mary divided between them the watching and the household cares,
and their father bore up bravely in the fullness of his love and faith,
resigning her daughter to the Hands which were bearing her whither her
joys had long since departed.

Hector Ernescliffe arrived when the holidays began; and his agony of
sorrow, when she failed to recognise him, moved Dr. May to exert himself
earnestly for his consolation; and, at the same time, Tom, in a gentle,
almost humble manner, paid a sort of daughter-like attention to the
smallest services for his father, as if already accepting him as his
especial charge.

It was midnight, on the longest night of the year; Ethel was lying on
her bed, and had fallen into a brief slumber, when her father's low,
clear voice summoned her
There was a change on the face, and the breath came in labouring gasps.
Richard lifted her head, and her eyes once more opened; she smiled once
more
she said
He threw himself on his knees beside her, but she looked beyond him
and, as though the
unspeakable dawned on her, she gasped for utterance, then looked, with
a consoling smile, on her father
she said -- and the last
struggle was ended. That which Richard laid down was no longer Margaret
May.

Over now! The twenty-five years' life, the seven years' captivity on her
couch, the anxious headship of the motherless household, the hopeless
betrothal, the long suspense, the efforts for resignation, the widowed
affections, the slow decay, the tardy, painful death agony -- all was
over; nothing left, save what they had rendered the undying spirit, and
the impress her example had left on those around her.

The long continuance of the last suffering had softened the actual
parting; and it was with thankfulness for the cessation of her pain that
they turned away, and bade each other good-night.

Ethel would not have believed that her first wakening to the knowledge
that Margaret was gone could have been more fraught with relief than
with misery. And, for her father, it seemed as if it were a home-like,
comfortable thought to him, that her mother had one of her children with
her. He called her the first link of his Daisy Chain drawn up out of
sight; and, during the quiet days that ensued, he seemed as it were to
be lifted above grief, dwelling upon hope. His calmness impressed the
same on his children, as they moved about in the solemn stillness of the
house; and when Harry, pale, and shocked at the blow to him so sudden,
came home, the grave silence soothed his violence of grief; and he sat
beside his, father or Mary, speaking in undertones of what Margaret had
loved to hear from him, of Alan Ernescliffe's last moments.

Mary gave way to a burst of weeping when she sought, in vain, for
daisies in the wintry garden; but Hector Ernescliffe went down to the
cloisters, and brought back the lingering blossoms to be placed on
Margaret's bosom.

The dog Toby had followed him, unseen, to the cloister; and he was
entering the garden, when he was struck by seeing the animal
bounding, in irrepressible ecstasy, round a lad, whose tarpaulin hat,
blue-bordered collar, and dark blue dress, showed him to be a sailor,
as well as the broad-shouldered, grizzled, elderly man, who stood beside
him
said the latter, as Hector's hand was on the door
Hector unhesitatingly answered that he did
Hector was all in one flush, almost choking, as he told that he was Mr.
Ernescliffe's brother, and gave his hand to the sailor
Jennings had heard from one of the crew of the Bucephalus that Mr. May
had been met, on his return to Portsmouth, by the news of his sister's
death. The Mays had helped his boy; he had been with Mr. May in the
island; he had laid Mr. Ernescliffe in his grave; and some notion had
crossed the sailor that he must be at Miss Margaret's funeral -- it might
be they would let him lend a hand -- and, in this expedition, he was
spending his time on shore.

How he was welcomed need not be told, nor how the tears came forth from
full hearts, as Dr. May granted his wish, and thanked him for doing what
Margaret herself would indeed have chosen; and, in his blue sailor garb,
was Jennings added to the bearers, their own men, and two Cocksmoor
labourers, who, early on Christmas Eve, carried her to the minster. Last
time she had been there, Alan Ernescliffe had supported her. Now, what
was mortal of him lay beneath the palm tree, beneath the glowing summer
sky, while the first snow-flakes hung like pearls on her pall. But
as they laid her by her mother's side, who could doubt that they were
together
At length I got unto the gladsome hill,
             Where lay my hope;
       Where lay my heart; and, climbing still,
       When I had gained the brow and top,
     A lake of brackish waters on the ground,
             Was all I found.
                           -- GEORGE HERBERT.


Late in the evening of the same snowy 24th of December, a little
daughter awoke to life at Abbotstoke Grange, and, not long after, Mrs.
Arnott came to summon Dr May from the anxious vigil in the sitting-room
she said, with much
alarm
It was so, when he came to her bedside; that fixed stony look of despair
was gone; the source of tears, so long dried up, had opened again; and
there she lay, weeping quietly indeed, but profusely, and with deep
heaving sobs. To speak, or to leave her alone, seemed equally perilous,
but he chose the first -- he kissed and blessed her, and gave her joy. She
looked up at him as if his blessing once more brought peace, and said
faintly
said Dr. May fervently
said Flora
said her father
He would have taken the infant from the nurse and held her to her
mother, but, recollecting how little Leonora had drawn her last breath
in his arms, he feared the association, and signed to Mrs. Arnott to
show her the child; but she seemed as yet only able to feel that it was
not Leonora, and the long sealed-up grief would have its way. The tears
burst out again
she said, with such passionate caresses, that Mrs. Arnott was glad to
take the babe away.

Dr. May's next expedient was to speak to her of her husband, who needed
her more than all, and to call him in. There seemed to be something
tranquillising in his wistful manner of repeating
and she was at last reduced, by her extreme exhaustion, to stillness;
but there were still many fears for her.

Dr. May's prediction was accomplished -- that she would suffer for having
over-exerted herself. Her constitution had been severely tried by the
grief and despondency that she had so long endured in silence, and the
fresh sorrow for her favourite sister coming at such a crisis. There
was a weariness of life, and an unwillingness to resume her ordinary
routine, that made her almost welcome her weakness and sinking; and now
that the black terror had cleared away from the future, she seemed to
long to follow Margaret at once, and to yearn after her lost child;
while appeals to the affection that surrounded her often seemed to
oppress her, as if there were nothing but weariness and toil in store.

The state of her mind made her father very anxious, though it was but
too well accounted for. Poor Flora had voluntarily assumed the trammels
that galled her; worldly motives had prompted her marriage, and though
she faithfully loved her husband, he was a heavy weight on her hands,
and she had made it more onerous by thrusting him into a position for
which he was not calculated, and inspiring him with a self-consequence
that would not recede from it. The shock of her child's death had taken
away the zest and energy which had rejoiced in her chosen way of life,
and opened her eyes to see what Master she had been serving; and the
perception of the hollowness of all that had been apparently good in
her, had filled her with remorse and despair. Her sufferings had been
the more bitter because she had not parted with her proud reserve. She
had refused council, and denied her confidence to those who could have
guided her repentance. Her natural good sense, and the sound principle
in which she had been brought up, had taught her to distrust her gloomy
feelings as possibly morbid; and she had prayed, keeping her hold of
faith in the Infinite Mercy, though she could not feel her own part in
it; and thus that faith was beginning at last to clear her path.

It was the harder to deal with her, because her hysterical agitation was
so easily excited, that her father hardly dared to let a word be spoken
to her; and she was allowed to see no one else except her aunt and the
dear old nurse, whose tears for her child Margaret had been checked by
the urgent requirements of another of her nurslings; and whom George
Rivers would have paid with her weight in gold, for taking care of his
new daughter, regarding her as the only woman in the world that could be
trusted.

Those were heavy days with every one, though each brought some shade of
improvement. They were harder to bear than the peaceful days that had
immediately followed the loss of Margaret; and Ethel was especially
unhappy and forlorn under the new anxiety, where she could be of no
service; and with her precious occupation gone; her father absent,
instead of resting upon her; and her room deserted. She was grieved
with herself, because her feelings were unable to soar at the Christmas
Feast, as erst on St. Andrew's Day; and she was bewildered and
distressed by the fear that she had then been only uplifted by vanity
and elation.

She told Richard so, and he said, kindly, that he thought a good deal of
that she complained of arose from bodily weariness.

This hurt her a little; but when he said
she owned that
it had indeed been so, and added
Sick at heart as she was, she bravely set herself to appropriate the
hours now left vacant; and manfully walked with Richard and Harry to
church at Cocksmoor on St. Stephen's Day; but the church brought back
the sense of contrast. Next, she insisted on fulfilling their
intention of coming home by Abbotstoke to hear how Flora was, when the
unfavourable account only added lead to the burden that weighed her
down. Though they were sent home in the carriage, she was so completely
spent, that the effect of returning home to her room, without its dear
inhabitant, was quite overwhelming, and she sat on her bed for half
an hour, struggling with repinings. She came downstairs without having
gained the victory, and was so physically overcome with lassitude, that
Richard insisted on her lying on the sofa, and leaving everything to him
and Mary.

Richard seemed to make her his object in life, and was an unspeakable
help and comforter to her, not only by taking every care for her for her
sake, but by turning to her as his own friend and confidante, the best
able to replace what they had lost. There were many plans to be put in
operation for Cocksmoor, on which much consultation was needed, though
every word reminded them sadly of Margaret's ever ready interest in
those schemes. It was very unlike Ethel's vision of the first weeks
of St. Andrew's Church; but it might be safer for her than that aught
should tempt her to say
Perhaps her Margaret had begun to admire her too much to be her safest
confidante -- at any rate, it was good still to sow in tears, rather than
on earth to reap in confident joy.

Norman was as brotherly and kind as possible; but it was one of the
dreary feelings of those days, that Ethel then first became aware of
the difference that his engagement had made, and saw that he resorted
elsewhere for sympathy. She was not jealous, and acquiesced submissively
and resolutely; but they had been so much to each other, that it was
a trial, especially at such a time as this, when freshly deprived of
Margaret.

Norman's own prospect was not cheerful. He had received a letter
from New Zealand, begging him to hasten his coming out, as there was
educational work much wanting him, and, according to his original wish,
he could be ordained there in the autumnal Ember Week.

He was in much perplexity, since, according to this request, he ought to
sail with his aunt in the last week of February, and he knew not how to
reconcile the conflicting claims.

Meta was not long in finding out the whole of his trouble, as they paced
up and down the terrace together on a frosty afternoon
was her first exclamation
said Norman
said Meta
began Norman, with lingering looks at
the little humming-bird on his arm
said Meta
said Norman, smiling
said Meta
and
her dark eyes were steadfastly fixed
said Meta, trying
to laugh, but not very successfully
said Meta, smiling
Meta talked so as to brighten and invigorate Norman when they were
together, but they both grew low-spirited when apart. The humming-bird
had hardly ever been so downcast as at present -- that is, whenever she
was not engaged in waiting on her brother, or in cheering up Dr. May, or
in any of the many gentle offices that she was ever fulfilling. She was
greatly disappointed, and full of fears for Norman, and dread of the
separation, but she would not give way; and only now and then, when off
her guard, would the sadness reign on her face without an effort. Alone,
she fought and prayed for resignation for herself, and protection and
strength for him, and chid herself for the foolish feeling that he would
be safer with her.

She told Aunt Flora how it was one evening, as they sat over the fire
together, speaking with a would-be tone of congratulation
exclaimed Mrs. Arnott
Meta looked quite brightened by her saying so
she rejoined
said Mrs. Arnott, smiling
said Meta, trying to answer the smile
said Mrs. Arnott
said Meta
Flora was, however, much softened and less reserved than she had been.
She found great repose in her aunt's attendance, retracing, as it
did, her mother's presence, and she responded to her tenderness with
increasing reliance and comfort; while as her strength began to revive,
and there was more disposition to talk, she became gradually drawn into
greater confidence.

The seeing of Ethel was one of the difficult questions. Flora had begun
to wish it very much, and yet the bare idea threw her into a nervous
tremor, that caused it to be put off again and again. Her aunt found her
one day almost faint with agitation -- she had heard Ethel's voice in the
next room, and had been winding up her expectations, and now was as much
grieved as relieved, to find that she had been there seeing the baby,
but was now gone
asked Flora presently
and Mrs. Arnott stopped short in her interrogation
said Flora, answering the pause
said Flora
and
Flora, in a few words, told what had passed at Oxford
said Flora
said Mrs. Arnott
said her niece
said Flora
said Flora
Mrs. Arnott began better to understand Flora's continued depression, but
she thought her self-reproach exaggerated, and said something at once
soothing and calculated to encourage her to undraw the curtain of
reserve
continued Flora
said Flora
She had fallen into one of those fits of weeping when it was impossible
to attempt anything but soothing her; but, though she was so much
exhausted that Mrs. Arnott expected to be in great disgrace with Dr. May
for having let her talk herself into this condition, she found that
he was satisfied to find that she had so far relieved her mind, and
declared that she would be better now.

The effect of the conversation was, that the next day, the last of the
twelve Christmas days, when Ethel, whose yearning after her sister was
almost equally divided between dread and eagerness -- eagerness for her
embrace, and dread of the chill of her reserve, came once again in
hopes of an interview. Dr. May called her at once
he said
Did he know what a mountain there was in her throat when he seemed to
think it so easy to be natural?

She found him leading her into a darkened room, and heard his cheerful
tones saying
said a low, weak voice, with a sound as of expecting a
treat, and Ethel was within a curtain, where she began, in the dimness,
to see something white moving, and her hands were clasped by two long
thin ones
said Dr. May
Either the recurrence to nursery language, or the mere sisterly touch
after long separation, seemed to annihilate all the imaginary mutual
dread, and, as Ethel bent lower and lower, and Flora's arms were round
her, the only feeling was of being together again, and both at once made
the childish gesture of affection, and murmured the old pet names of
and
that belonged to almost forgotten days, when they
were baby sisters, then kissed each other again
said Ethel, drawing herself up a little
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel thoughtfully.

Flora sighed
Ethel paused
said Flora
Flora's voice trembled again
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel, smiling
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel, in an odd, dry manner; which in
sound, though not in feeling, was a contrast to the soft, whispering,
tearful murmurs of her sister
continued Flora
said Ethel, sighing
said Flora
Ethel, as usual, blundered into the subject
Flora asked further questions, and she was obliged to explain. It roused
Flora's energies at once
she said
Ethel was aghast
and she told of
Margaret's wishes
said Flora, smiling
said Ethel
said Ethel
said Flora
Ethel gasped at the thought that her occupation at home was gone, but
she said
said
Flora.

Dr. May came in to break up the conversation, and Ethel quickly guessed
from his manner that Norman had been talking to him. Flora told him that
she had been agreeing with Ethel that Meta had much better not miss this
opportunity. He was far less startled than Ethel had expected; indeed,
the proposal was rather a relief to his mind, and his chief objection
was the fear that Flora would be fatigued by the extra bustle; but she
promised not to trouble herself about it, otherwise than that if Norman
could not persuade Meta, she would. The sisters parted, much more
comfortable than before. Ethel felt as if she had found something like a
dim reflection of Margaret, and Flora's fear of Ethel had fled away from
the mere force of sisterhood.

As to Norman, he declared that he had not the audacity to make the
proposal to Meta, though he was only too grateful; so his father carried
it to the humming-bird; and, as soon as she found that it was
not improper, nor would hurt any one's feelings, she gave ready
consent -- only begging that it might be as best suited every one,
especially Flora; and ending by a whisper to her dear fatherly friend,
owning that she was
So Norman and Meta settled their plans as they walked home together from
evening service, after listening to the prophecies of the blessings to
be spread into the waste and desolate places, which should yet become
the heritage of the Chosen, and with the evening star shining on them,
like a faint reflex of the Star of the East, Who came to be a Light to
lighten the Gentiles
Euna delle facolta singolari ed incommunicabili della religione
  Cristiana questa, di poter dare indirizzo e quiete a chiunoque, in
  qualsivoglia congiuntura, a qualsivoglia termine, ricorra ad essa.
  Se al passato v'e rimedio, essa lo prescrive, lo somministra, presta
  lume e vigore per metterlo in opera a qualunque costo; se non v'e,
  essa da il, modo di fare realmento e in effeto, cio che 1' uom dice
  in proverbio, della necessita virtu.  Insegna a continuare con
  sapienza cio che e stato intrapreso per leggerezza, piega l'animo ad
  abbracciare con propensione cio che e stato imposto dalla prepotenza,
  e da ad un elezione che fu temeraria, ma che e irrevocabile, tutta la
  santita, tutto il consiglio, diciamolo pur francamenta, tutte le
  gioje della vocazione.-- MANZONI.


The wedding-day was fixed for the 20th of January, since it was less
risk to Flora as an absolute invalid, than as convalescent enough to
take any share in the doings.

Meta managed her correspondence with her own relatives, and obtained her
uncle's kind approval, since he saw there could be nothing else; while
her aunt treated her as an infatuated victim, but wished, for her
mother's sake, to meet her in London before she sailed.

The worst stroke of all was to Bellairs, who had never chosen to believe
that her mistress could move without her, and though mortally afraid in
crossing to the Isle of Wight, and utterly abhorring all
went
into hysterics on finding that her young lady would take out no maid but
a little hard-working village girl; and though transferred in the most
flattering manner to Mrs. Rivers's service, shed a tear for every stitch
she set in the trousseau, and assured her betrothed butler that, if Miss
Rivers would only have heard reason, she would have followed her to the
world's end, rather than that her beautiful hair should never look like
anything again.

So the wedding-day came, and grass and trees wore a fitting suit of
crisp hoariness. Nothing could be quieter. Meta was arrayed by the
sobbing Bellairs in her simple bridal white, wrapped herself in a large
shawl, took her brother's arm, and walked down the frosty path with him
and Mrs. Arnott, as if going merely to the daily service.

The time had not been made known, and there was hardly an addition to
the ordinary congregation, except the May family and Dr. Spencer; but
the Christmas evergreens still adorned aisle and chancel, and over the
altar stood the motto that Meta herself had woven of holly, on that
Christmas Eve of grief and anxiety, without knowing how it would speak
to her.


  Fear not, for behold I bring unto you glad tidings of great joy,
  that shall be unto you and to all people.


Fear not, for length of voyage, for distance from kindred, for hardship,
privation, misunderstanding, disappointment. The glad tidings are to all
people, even to the utmost parts of the earth. Ye have your portion in
the great joy -- ye have freely cast in your lot with those, whose feet
are beautiful on the mountains, who bear the good tidings. Fear not, for
He is with you, who will never forsake.

Thus Dr. May read the words with swelling heart, as he looked at his
son's clear, grave, manful look, even as it had been when he made his
Confirmation vow -- his natural nervous excitability quelled by a spirit
not his own, and chastened into strong purpose; and the bride, her young
face the more lovely for the depth of enthusiasm restrained by awe and
humility, as she stood without trembling or faltering, the strength of
innocence expressed in the whole bearing of her slight figure in her
white drapery. Around were the four sisterly bride's-maids, their black
dresses showing that these were still the twilight days of mourning, and
that none would forget her, whose prayers might still bless their labour
of love.

When Margaret Agatha May, on her husband's arm, turned for a last look
at the altar of her own church
in evergreen letters, was
the greeting she bore away.

Ethel was left at the Grange for the ensuing fortnight -- a time of
unusual leisure both to her and to Flora, which they both prized highly,
for it taught them to know each other as they had never done before.
Flora's confidence to her aunt had been a good thing for her, though
so partial; it opened the way for further unreserve to one who knew
the circumstances better, and, as to dread of Ethel, that could seldom
prevail in her presence, partly from long habit, partly from her
deficiency of manner, and still more from her true humility and
affection. Gradually she arrived at the perception of the history of her
sister's mind; understood what gloom had once overshadowed it; and how,
since light had once shone upon her, she shrank not merely from the
tasks that had become wearisome to her, but from the dread of losing
among them her present peace
argued Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora languidly
said Ethel
cried her sister, raising herself from her couch eagerly
said Ethel
said Ethel, not in too
complimentary a strain
said Flora
exclaimed Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel
sighed Flora
said Ethel, a little startled
sighed Flora
said Ethel, as if poor Flora could have done anything
but lie still on her sofa
said Ethel
said Flora
said Flora hesitatingly; for she knew it was true -- he liked to
think himself important, and it gave him something to think of, and
regular occupation -- not too active or onerous; but she could not tell
Ethel what she herself felt; that all she could do for him could not
prevent him from being held cheap by the men among whom she had placed
him
said Ethel, as she heard her affirmative
said Flora shortly
said poor Flora
said Ethel thoughtfully
said Flora
as he entered with a Shanghai egg in each hand, for her
to mark with the date when it had been laid. Poultry was a new hobby,
and Ethel had been hearing, in her tete-a-tete dinners with George,
a great deal about the perfections of the hideous monsters that
had obtained fabulous prices. They had been the best resource for
conversation; but she watched, with something between vexation and
softness, how Flora roused herself to give her full attention and
interest to his prosing about his pets, really pleased as it seemed;
and, at last, encouraging him actually to fetch his favourite cock to
show her; when she went through the points of perfection of the ungainly
mass of feathers, and did not at all allow Ethel to laugh at the
unearthly sounds of disapproval which handling elicited
thought Ethel
So Ethel did her best, and said the cock had a bright eye -- all she could
say for him -- and George instructed her to admire the awkward legs, and
invited her to a poultry show, at Whitford, in two days' time -- and they
sent him away to continue his consultations with the poultry woman,
which pullets should be preferred as candidates for a prize
said Flora
said Ethel
said Flora, as if it were a great effort
said Ethel
said Flora
said Ethel,
preventing what she feared would be disparaging
said Ethel, growing bolder
Ethel felt herself utterly powerless to advise; and, after a kind sound
of sympathy, sat shocked, pondering on what none could answer; whether
this were, indeed, what poor Flora imagined, or whether it had been a
holding-fast to the thread through the darkness. The proud reserve was
the true evil, and Ethel prayed and trusted it might give way.

She went very amiably to Whitford with George, and gained great credit
with him, for admiring the prettiest speckled Hamburgh present; indeed,
George was becoming very fond of
as he still called her,
and sometimes predicted that she would turn out a fine figure of a woman
after all.

Ethel heard, on her return, that Richard had been there; and three days
after, when Flora was making arrangements for going to church, a moment
of confidence came over her, and she said
said Flora
said Ethel
sighed Flora
said Ethel, more
hopefully, as she saw Flora bend over her baby with a face that might
one day be bright.

She trusted that patient continuance in well-doing would one day win
peace and joy, even in the dreary world that poor Flora had chosen.

For her own part, Ethel found Flora's practical good sense and sympathy
very useful, in her present need of the counsel she had always had from
Margaret.

The visit to Flora lasted a fortnight, and Ethel was much benefited by
the leisure for reading and the repose after the long nursing; though,
before the end, her refreshed energies began to pine for Daisy and her
hymns, for Aubrey and his Virgil, for Cherry and her scholars, and,
above all, for her father; for, come as often as he would, it was not
papa at home.

On the other hand, Mary was at a loss for Ethel every hour; Richard
was putting off his affairs till Ethel should come home; Miss Bracy
and Blanche longed for her to relieve the schoolroom from the children;
Aubrey could not perform a lesson in comfort with any one else -- never
ended a sum without groaning for Ethel, and sometimes rode to Abbotstoke
for the mere purpose of appealing to her; in short, no one could get on
without her, and the doctor least of all.

Dr. Spencer, and Mr. Wilmot, and all his sons and daughters, had done
their best for him; but, in spite of his satisfaction at seeing the two
sisters so happy together, he could not help missing Ethel every minute,
as the very light of his home; and when, at last, Flora brought her
back, she was received with uproarious joy by Aubrey and Daisy, while
the rest of the household felt a revival and refreshment of spirits -- the
first drawing aside of the cloud that had hung over the winter.
The pearl of their home might be missed every hour, but they could
thankfully rest in the trust that she was a jewel stored up in safety
and peace, to shine as a star for evermore.

A few weeks more, and there were other partings, sad indeed, yet cheery.
Dr. May told Mrs. Arnott that, though he grieved that so much of sorrow
had come to dim her visit, he could not but own that it was the very
time when her coming could be most comforting; and this, as she truly
said, was satisfaction enough for her, besides that she could not
rejoice enough that her arrival had been in time to see their dear
Margaret. She should carry away most precious recollections; and she
further told Dr. Spencer that she was far more comfortable about
her brother-in-law, than if she had only known him in his youthful
character, which had seemed so little calculated to bear sorrow or care.
She looked at him now only to wonder at, and reverence the change that
had been gradually wrought by the affections placed above.

Norman and his wife went with her -- the one grave but hopeful, the other
trying to wile away the pain of parting, by her tearful mirth -- making
all sorts of odd promises and touching requests, between jest and
earnest, and clinging to the last to her dear father-in-law, as if the
separation from him were the hardest of all
said he at last
said Meta archly -- then turning back once more
It had all been over for some weeks, and the home-party had settled down
again into what was likely to be their usual course, excepting in the
holidays, to which the doctor looked forward with redoubled interest, as
Tom was fast becoming a very agreeable and sensible companion; for his
moodiness had been charmed away by Meta, and principle was teaching
him true command of temper. He seemed to take his father as a special
charge, bequeathed to him by Norman, and had already acquired that
value and importance at home which comes of the laying aside of all
self-importance.

It was a clear evening in March, full of promise of spring, and Ethel
was standing in the church porch at Cocksmoor, after making some visits
in the parish, waiting for Richard, while the bell was ringing for the
Wednesday evening service, and the pearly tints of a cloudless sunset
were fading into the western sky.

Ethel began to wonder where Norman might be looking at the sun dipping
into the western sea, and thence arose before her the visions of her
girlhood, when she had first dreamt of a church on Cocksmoor, and of
Richard ministering before a willing congregation. So strange did the
accomplishment seem, that she even touched the stone to assure herself
of the reality; and therewith came intense thanksgiving that the work
had been taken out of her hands, to be the more fully blessed and
accomplished -- that is, as far as the building went; as to the people,
there was far more labour in store, and the same Hand must be looked to
for the increase.

For herself, Ethel looked back and looked on. Norman Ogilvie's marriage
seemed to her to have fixed her lot in life, and what was that lot? Home
and Cocksmoor had been her choice, and they were before her. Home! but
her eyes had been opened to see that earthly homes may not endure, nor
fill the heart. Her dear father might, indeed, claim her full-hearted
devotion, but, to him, she was only one of many. Norman was no longer
solely hers; and she had begun to understand that the unmarried woman
must not seek undivided return of affection, and must not set her love,
with exclusive eagerness, on aught below, but must be ready to cease in
turn to be first with any. Ethel was truly a mother to the younger ones;
but she faced the probability that they would find others to whom she
would have the second place. To love each heartily, to do her utmost for
each in turn, and to be grateful for their fondness, was her call; but
never to count on their affection as her sole right and inalienable
possession. She felt that this was the probable course, and that
she might look to becoming comparatively solitary in the course of
years -- then tried to realise what her lonely life might be, but broke
off smiling at herself
</text>
