<text>
IN sending forth this little book, I am inclined to add a few explanatory
words as to the use I have made of historical personages.  The origin of
the whole story was probably Freytag's first series of pictures of German
Life: probably, I say, for its first commencement was a dream, dreamt
some weeks after reading that most interesting collection of sketches.
The return of the squire with the tidings of the death of the two knights
was vividly depicted in sleep; and, though without local habitation or
name, the scene was most likely to have been a reflection from the wild
scenes so lately read of.

In fact, waking thoughts decided that such a catastrophe could hardly
have happened anywhere but in Germany, or in Scotland; and the contrast
between the cultivation in the free cities and the savagery of the
independent barons made the former the more suitable region for the
adventures.  The time could only be before the taming and bringing into
order of the empire, when the Imperial cities were in their greatest
splendour, the last free nobles in course of being reduced from their
lawless liberty, and the House of Austria beginning to acquire its
preponderance over the other princely families.

M. Freytag's books, and Hegewisch's History of Maximilian, will, I think,
be found fully to bear out the picture I have tried to give of the state
of things in the reign of the Emperor Friedrich III., when, for want of
any other law, _Faust recht_, or fist right, ruled; _i.e._ an offended
nobleman, having once sent a _Fehde-brief_ to his adversary, was
thenceforth at liberty to revenge himself by a private war, in which, for
the wrong inflicted, no justice was exacted.

Hegewisch remarks that the only benefit of this custom was, that the
honour of subscribing a feud-brief was so highly esteemed that it induced
the nobles to learn to write!  The League of St. George and the Swabian
League were the means of gradually putting down this authorized condition
of deadly feud.

This was in the days of Maximilian's youth.  He is a prince who seems to
have been almost as inferior in his foreign to what he was in his
domestic policy as was Queen Elizabeth.  He is chiefly familiar to us as
failing to keep up his authority in Flanders after the death of Mary of
Burgundy, as lingering to fulfil his engagement with Anne of Brittany
till he lost her and her duchy, as incurring ridicule by his ill-managed
schemes in Italy, and the vast projects that he was always forming
without either means or steadiness to carry them out, by his perpetual
impecuniosity and slippery dealing; and in his old age he has become
rather the laughing-stock of historians.

But there is much that is melancholy in the sight of a man endowed with
genius, unbalanced by the force of character that secures success, and
with an ardent nature whose intention overleapt obstacles that in
practice he found insuperable.  At home Maximilian raised the Imperial
power from a mere cipher to considerable weight.  We judge him as if he
had been born in the purple and succeeded to a defined power like his
descendants.  We forget that the head of the Holy Roman Empire had been,
ever since the extinction of the Swabian line, a mere mark for ambitious
princes to shoot at, with everything expected from him, and no means to
do anything.  Maximilian's own father was an avaricious, undignified old
man, not until near his death Archduke of even all Austria, and with
anarchy prevailing everywhere under his nominal rule.  It was in the time
of Maximilian that the Empire became as compact and united a body as
could be hoped of anything so unwieldy, that law was at least
acknowledged, _Faust recht_ for ever abolished, and the Emperor became
once more a real power.

The man under whom all this was effected could have been no fool; yet, as
he said himself, he reigned over a nation of kings, who each chose to
rule for himself; and the uncertainty of supplies of men or money to be
gained from them made him so often fail necessarily in his engagements,
that he acquired a shiftiness and callousness to breaches of promise,
which became the worst flaw in his character.  But of the fascination of
his manner there can be no doubt.  Even Henry VIII.'s English
ambassadors, when forced to own how little they could depend on him, and
how dangerous it was to let subsidies pass through his fingers, still
show themselves under a sort of enchantment of devotion to his person,
and this in his old age, and when his conduct was most inexcusable and
provoking.

His variety of powers was wonderful.  He was learned in many languages--in
all those of his empire or hereditary states, and in many besides; and he
had an ardent love of books, both classical and modern.  He delighted in
music, painting, architecture, and many arts of a more mechanical
description; wrote treatises on all these, and on other subjects,
especially gardening and gunnery.  He was the inventor of an improved
lock to the arquebus, and first divined how to adapt the disposition of
his troops to the use of the newly-discovered fire-arms.  And in all
these things his versatile head and ready hand were personally employed,
not by deputy; while coupled with so much artistic taste was a violent
passion for hunting, which carried him through many hairbreadth 'scapes
he used to say
His
_bon-mots_ are numerous, all thoroughly characteristic, and showing that
brilliancy in conversation must have been one of his greatest charms.  It
seems as if only self-control and resolution were wanting to have made
him a Charles, or an Alfred, the Great.

The romance of his marriage with the heiress of Burgundy is one of the
best known parts of his life.  He was scarcely two-and-twenty when he
lost her, who perhaps would have given him the stability he wanted; but
his tender hove for her endured through life.  It is not improbable that
it was this still abiding attachment that made him slack in overcoming
difficulties in the way of other contracts, and that he may have hoped
that his engagement to Bianca Sforza would come to nothing, like so many
others.

The most curious record of him is, however, in two books, the materials
for which he furnished, and whose composition and illustration he
superintended, _Der Weise King_, and _Theurdank_, of both of which he is
well known to be the hero.  The White, or the Wise King, it is uncertain
which, is a history of his education and exploits, in prose.  Every
alternate page has its engraving, showing how the Young White King
obtains instruction in painting, architecture, language, and all arts and
sciences, the latter including magic--which he learns of an old woman with
a long-tailed demon sitting, like Mother Hubbard's cat, on her
shoulder--and astrology.  In the illustration of this study an
extraordinary figure of a cross within a circle appears in the sky, which
probably has some connection with his scheme of nativity, for it also
appears on the breast of Ehrenhold, his constant companion in the
metrical history of his career, under the name of Theurdank.

The poetry of _Theurdank_ was composed by Maximilian's old
writing-master, Melchior Pfinznig; but the adventures were the Kaisar's
own, communicated by himself, and he superintended the wood-cuts.  The
name is explained to mean
Gloriaememor.  The Germans
laugh to scorn a French translator, who rendered it
It was
annotated very soon after its publication, and each exploit explained and
accounted for.  It is remarkable and touching in a man who married at
eighteen, and was a widower at twenty-two, that, in both books, the happy
union with his lady love is placed at the end--not at the beginning of the
book; and in _Theurdank_, at least, the eternal reunion is clearly meant.

In this curious book, Konig Romreich, by whom every contemporary
understood poor Charles of Burgundy--thus posthumously made King of Rome
by Maximilian, as the only honour in his power, betroths his daughter
Ehrenreich (rich in honour) to the Ritter Theurdank.  Soon after, by a
most mild version of Duke Charles's frightful end, Konig Romreich is seen
on his back dying in a garden, and Ehrenreich (as Mary really did)
despatches a ring to summon her betrothed.

But here Theurdank returns for answer that he means first to win honour
by his exploits, and sets out with his comrade, Ehrenhold, in search
thereof.  Ehrenhold never appears of the smallest use to him in any of
the dire adventures into which he falls, but only stands complacently by,
and in effect may represent Fame, or perhaps that literary sage whom Don
Quixote always supposed to be at hand to record his deeds of prowess.

Next we are presented with the German impersonation of Satan as a wise
old magician, only with claws instead of feet, commissioning his three
captains (_hauptleutern_), Furwitz, Umfallo, and Neidelhard, to beset and
ruin Theurdank.  They are interpreted as the dangers of youth, middle
life, and old age--Rashness, Disaster, and Distress (or Envy).  One at a
time they encounter him,--not once, but again and again; and he has ranged
under each head, in entire contempt of real order of time, the perils he
thinks owing to each foe.  Furwitz most justly gets the credit of
Maximilian's perils on the steeple of Ulm, though, unfortunately, the
artist has represented the daring climber as standing not much above the
shoulders of Furwitz and Ehrenhold; and although the annotation tells us
that his "hinder half foot" overhung the scaffold, the danger in the
print is not appalling.  Furwitz likewise inveigles him into putting the
point (_schnabel_) of his shoe into the wheel of a mill for turning stone
balls, where he certainly hardly deserved to lose nothing but the beak of
his shoe.  This enemy also brings him into numerous unpleasant
predicaments on precipices, where he hangs by one hand; while the chamois
stand delighted on every available peak, Furwitz grins malevolently, and
Ehrenhold stands pointing at him over his shoulder.  Time and place are
given in the notes for all these escapes.  After some twenty adventures
Furwitz is beaten off, and Umfallo tries his powers.  Here the
misadventures do not involve so much folly on the hero's part--though, to
be sure, he ventures into a lion's den unarmed, and has to beat off the
inmates with a shovel.  But the other adventures are more rational.  He
catches a jester--of admirably foolish expression--putting a match to a
powder-magazine; he is wonderfully preserved in mountain avalanches and
hurricanes; reins up his horse on the verge of an abyss; falls through
ice in Holland and shows nothing but his head above it; cures himself of
a fever by draughts of water, to the great disgust of his physicians, and
escapes a fire bursting out of a tall stove.

Neidelhard brings his real battles and perils.  From this last he is in
danger of shipwreck, of assassination, of poison, in single combat, or in
battle; tumults of the people beset him; he is imprisoned as at Ghent.
But finally Neidelhard is beaten back; and the hero is presented to
Ehrenreich.  Ehrenhold recounts his triumphs, and accuses the three
captains.  One is hung, another beheaded, the third thrown headlong from
a tower, and a guardian angel then summons Theurdank to his union with
his Queen.  No doubt this reunion was the life-dream of the harassed,
busy, inconsistent man, who flashed through the turmoils of the early
sixteenth century.

The adventures of Maximilian which have been adverted to in the story are
all to be found in Theurdank, and in his early life he was probably the
brilliant eager person we have tried in some degree to describe.  In his
latter years it is well known that he was much struck by Luther's
arguments; and, indeed, he had long been conscious of need of Church
reform, though his plans took the grotesque form of getting himself made
Pope, and taking all into his own hands.

Perhaps it was unwise to have ever so faintly sketched Ebbo's career
through the ensuing troubles; but the history of the star and of the
spark in the stubble seemed to need completion; and the working out of
the character of the survivor was unfinished till his course had been
thought over from the dawn of the Wittenberg teaching, which must have
seemed no novelty to an heir of the doctrine of Tauler, and of the
veritably Catholic divines of old times.  The idea is of the supposed
course of a thoughtful, refined, conscientious man through the earlier
times of the Reformation, glad of the hope of cleansing the Church, but
hoping to cleanse, not to break away from her--a hope that Luther himself
long cherished, and which was not entirely frustrated till the
re-assembly at Trent in the next generation.  Justice has never been done
to the men who feared to loose their hold on the Church Catholic as the
one body to which the promises were made.  Their loyalty has been treated
as blindness, timidity, or superstition; but that there were many such
persons, and those among the very highest minds of their time, no one can
have any doubt after reading such lives as those of Friedrich the Wise of
Saxony, of Erasmus, of Vittoria Colonna, or of Cardinal Giustiniani.

_April_ 9, 1836
THE upper lattices of a tall, narrow window were open, and admitted the
view, of first some richly-tinted vine leaves and purpling grapes, then,
in dazzling freshness of new white stone, the lacework fabric of a
half-built minster spire, with a mason's crane on the summit, bending as
though craving for a further supply of materials; and beyond, peeping
through every crevice of the exquisite open fretwork, was the intensely
blue sky of early autumn.

The lower longer panes of the window were closed, and the glass, divided
into circles and quarrels, made the scene less distinct; but still the
huge stone tower was traceable, and, farther off, the slope of a
gently-rising hill, clothed with vineyards blushing into autumn richness.
Below, the view was closed by the gray wall of a court-yard, laden with
fruit-trees in full bearing, and inclosing paved paths that radiated from
a central fountain, and left spaces between, where a few summer flowers
still lingered, and the remains of others showed what their past glory
had been.

The interior of the room was wainscoted, the floor paved with bright red
and cream-coloured tiles, and the tall stove in one corner decorated with
the same.  The eastern end of the apartment was adorned with an exquisite
small group carved in oak, representing the carpenter's shop at Nazareth,
with the Holy Child instructed by Joseph in the use of tools, and the
Mother sitting with her book
All
around were blocks of wood and carvings in varying states of
progress--some scarcely shaped out, and others in perfect completion.  And
the subjects were equally various.  Here was an adoring angel with folded
wings, clasped hands, and rapt face; here a majestic head of an apostle
or prophet; here a lovely virgin saint, seeming to play smilingly with
the instrument of her martyrdom; here a grotesque _miserere_ group,
illustrating a fairy tale, or caricaturing a popular fable here a
beauteous festoon of flowers and fruit, emulating nature in all save
colour; and on the work-table itself, growing under the master's hand,
was a long wreath, entirely composed of leaves and seed-vessels in their
quaint and beauteous forms--the heart-shaped shepherd's purse, the
mask-like skull-cap, and the crowned urn of the henbane.  The starred cap
of the poppy was actually being shaped under the tool, copied from a
green capsule, surmounted with purple velvety rays, which, together with
its rough and wavy leaf, was held in the hand of a young maiden who knelt
by the table, watching the work with eager interest.

She was not a beautiful girl--not one of those whose
She was too small, too slight, too
retiring for such a position.  If there was something lily-like in her
drooping grace, it was not the queen-lily of the garden that she
resembled, but the retiring lily of the valley--so purely, transparently
white was her skin, scarcely tinted by a roseate blush on the cheek, so
tender and modest the whole effect of her slender figure, and the soft,
downcast, pensive brown eyes, utterly dissimilar in hue from those of all
her friends and kindred, except perhaps the bright, quick ones of her
uncle, the master-carver.  Otherwise, his portly form, open visage, and
good-natured stateliness, as well as his furred cap and gold chain, were
thoroughly those of the German burgomaster of the fifteenth century; but
those glittering black eyes had not ceased to betray their French, or
rather Walloon, origin, though for several generations back the family
had been settled at Ulm.  Perhaps, too, it was Walloon quickness and
readiness of wit that had made them, so soon as they became affiliated,
so prominent in all the councils of the good free city, and so noted for
excellence in art and learning.  Indeed the present head of the family,
Master Gottfried Sorel, was so much esteemed for his learning that he had
once had serious thoughts of terming himself Magister Gothofredus
Oxalicus, and might have carried it out but for the very decided
objections of his wife, Dame Johanna, and his little niece, Christina, to
being dubbed by any such surname.

Master Gottfried had had a scapegrace younger brother named Hugh, who had
scorned both books and tools, had been the plague of the workshop, and,
instead of coming back from his wandering year of improvement, had joined
a band of roving Lanzknechts.  No more had been heard of him for a dozen
or fifteen years, when he suddenly arrived at the paternal mansion at
Ulm, half dead with intermittent fever, and with a young, broken-hearted,
and nearly expiring wife, his spoil in his Italian campaigns.  His rude
affection had utterly failed to console her for her desolated home and
slaughtered kindred, and it had so soon turned to brutality that, when
brought to comparative peace and rest in his brother's home, there was
nothing left for the poor Italian but to lie down and die, commending her
babe in broken German to Hausfrau Johanna, and blessing Master Gottfried
for his flowing Latin assurances that the child should be to them even as
the little maiden who was lying in the God's acre upon the hillside.

And verily the little Christina had been a precious gift to the bereaved
couple.  Her father had no sooner recovered than he returned to his
roving life, and, except for a report that he had been seen among the
retainers of one of the robber barons of the Swabian Alps, nothing had
been heard of him; and Master Gottfried only hoped to be spared the
actual pain and scandal of knowing when his eyes were blinded and his
head swept off at a blow, or when he was tumbled headlong into a moat,
suspended from a tree, or broken on the wheel: a choice of fates that was
sure sooner or later to befall him.  Meantime, both the burgomeister and
burgomeisterinn did their utmost to forget that the gentle little girl
was not their own; they set all their hopes and joys on her, and, making
her supply the place at once of son and daughter, they bred her up in all
the refinements and accomplishments in which the free citizens of Germany
took the lead in the middle and latter part of the fifteenth century.  To
aid her aunt in all house-wifely arts, to prepare dainty food and varied
liquors, and to spin, weave, and broider, was only a part of Christina's
training; her uncle likewise set great store by her sweet Italian voice,
and caused her to be carefully taught to sing and play on the lute, and
he likewise delighted in hearing her read aloud to him from the
hereditary store of MSS. and from the dark volumes that began to proceed
from the press.  Nay, Master Gottfried had made experiments in printing
and wood-engraving on his own account, and had found no head so
intelligent, no hand so desirous to aid him, as his little Christina's,
who, in all that needed taste and skill rather than strength, was worth
all his prentices and journeymen together.  Some fine bold wood-cuts had
been produced by their joint efforts; but these less important
occupations had of late been set aside by the engrossing interest of the
interior fittings of the great
which for nearly a century
had been rising by the united exertions of the burghers, without any
assistance from without.  The foundation had been laid in 1377; and at
length, in the year of grace 1472, the crown of the apse had been closed
in, and matters were so forward that Master Gottfried's stall work was
already in requisition for the choir
he reckoned
returned the maiden
then, after a little pause, and some
reckoning
faltered Christina, colouring
replied Christina, looking down
the old man said approvingly
cried Christina
returned her uncle
There was indeed a sudden confusion in the house, and, before the uncle
and niece could rise, the door was opened by a prosperous apple-faced
dame, exclaiming in a hasty whisper
and, as the
master came forward, brushing from his furred vest the shavings and dust
of his work, she added in a more furtive, startled accent
replied Master Gottfried, in his cheery fearless voice
Christina's extreme timidity, however, made her pale and crimson by
turns, perhaps by the infection of anxiety from her aunt, who could not
conceal a certain dissatisfaction and alarm, as the maiden, led on either
side by her adopted parents, thus advanced from the little studio into a
handsomely-carved wooden gallery, projecting into a great wainscoated
room, with a broad carved stair leading down into it.  Down this stair
the three proceeded, and reached the stone hall that lay beyond it, just
as there entered from the trellised porch, that covered the steps into
the street, a thin wiry man, in a worn and greasy buff suit, guarded on
the breast and arms with rusty steel, and a battered helmet with the
vizor up, disclosing a weather-beaten bronzed face, with somewhat wild
dark eyes, and a huge grizzled moustache forming a straight line over his
lips.  Altogether he was a complete model of the lawless Reiter or
Lanzknecht, the terror of Swabia, and the bugbear of Christina's
imagination.  The poor child's heart died within her as she perceived the
mutual recognition between her uncle and the new comer; and, while Master
Gottfried held out his hands with a cordial greeting of
she trembled from head to foot, as she sank on her knees,
and murmured
as
he folded her in his rough arms
And then, regarding her, as she stood
drooping
replied Hausfrau Johanna, in a marked tone
added her uncle, reassuringly
taking her hand
returned the Lanzknecht
re-echoed the housemother, in a tone of horrified
dismay; and Christina would have dropped on the floor but for her uncle's
sustaining hand, and the cheering glance with which he met her imploring
look
said Master Gottfried, gravely
he added
quoth Hugh
So saying, the trooper crossed the lower room, which contained a huge
tiled baking oven, various brilliantly-burnished cooking utensils, and a
great carved cupboard like a wooden bedstead, and, passing the door of
the bathroom, clanked up the oaken stairs to the gallery, the
reception-room of the house.  It had tapestry hangings to the wall, and
cushions both to the carved chairs and deep windows, which looked out
into the street, the whole storey projecting into close proximity with
the corresponding apartment of the Syndic Moritz, the goldsmith on the
opposite side.  An oaken table stood in the centre, and the gallery was
adorned with a dresser, displaying not only bright pewter, but goblets
and drinking cups of beautifully-shaped and coloured glass, and
saltcellars, tankards, &amp;c. of gold and silver
said the soldier, throwing
himself into the housefather's chair
said poor Johanna under her breath
stretching out his legs
began the dame; but poor
Christina, the more anxious to propitiate him in little things, because
of the horror and dread with which his main purpose inspired her, was
already on her knees, pulling with her small quivering hands at the long
steel-guarded boot--a task to which she would have been utterly
inadequate, but for some lazy assistance from her father's other foot.
She further brought a pair of her uncle's furred slippers, while Reiter
Hugh proceeded to dangle one of the boots in the air, expatiating on its
frail condition, and expressing his intention of getting a new pair from
Master Matthias, the sutor, ere he should leave Ulm on the morrow.  Then,
again, came the dreaded subject; his daughter must go with him
gravely asked Master Gottfried,
seating himself on the opposite side of the stove, while out of sight the
frightened girl herself knelt on the floor, her head on her aunt's knees,
trying to derive comfort from Dame Johanna's clasping hands, and vehement
murmurs that they would not let their child be taken from them.  Alas!
these assurances were little in accordance with Hugh's rough reply
said Gottfried
laughed Hugh
grimly, but manifestly somewhat influenced by the notion of his brother's
wealth
he added
answered Gottfried, crossing himself
he added, looking down, and speaking in an under tone
said Gottfried, gravely
said Gottfried
returned Hugh
Gottfried suggested that a sick nurse was the person required rather than
a child like Christina; but, as Hugh truly observed, no nurse would
voluntarily go to Adlerstein, and it was no use to wait for the hopes of
capturing one by raid or foray.  His daughter was at his own disposal,
and her services would be repaid by personal advantages to himself which
he was not disposed to forego; in effect these were the only means that
the baron had of requiting any attendance upon his daughter.

The citizens of old Germany had the strongest and most stringent ideas of
parental authority, and regarded daughters as absolute chattels of their
father; and Master Gottfried Sorel, though he alone had done the part of
a parent to his niece, felt entirely unable to withstand the nearer
claim, except by representations; and these fell utterly disregarded, as
in truth every counsel had hitherto done, upon the ears of Reiter Hugh,
ever since he had emerged from his swaddling clothes.  The plentiful
supper, full cup of wine, the confections, the soft chair, together
perhaps with his brother's grave speech, soon, however, had the effect of
sending him into a doze, whence he started to accept civilly the proposal
of being installed in the stranger's room, where he was speedily snoring
between two feather beds.

Then there could be freedom of speech in the gallery, where the uncle and
aunt held anxious counsel over the poor little dark-tressed head that
still lay upon good Johanna's knees.  The dame was indignant and
resolute
said the master-carver
returned Johanna
said Gottfried, as the sweet face was
raised up to him with a look acquitting him of the charge, and he bent to
smooth back the silken hair, and kiss the ivory brow
asked the dame, sharply, yet with some fear
Christina shuddered, and Dame Johanna herself recoiled; but presently
exclaimed
muttered Johanna.  But, in the meantime,
Christina was rising from the floor, and stood before them with loose
hair, tearful eyes, and wet, flushed cheeks
she
said, in a low, but not unsteady voice
exclaimed her aunt
said Christina,
still trembling
exclaimed her aunt
replied Master Gottfried
said the dame, petulantly
softly said Gottfried, looking tenderly, though
sadly, at his niece, who not only understood the quotation, but well
remembered the carving of the cross-marked lamb going forth from its fold
among the howling wolves
said she
answered her uncle
exclaimed Johanna
replied Gottfried, readily, secure that Father
Balthazar would see the matter in the same light as himself, and
tranquillize the good woman.  It was not yet so late but that a servant
could be despatched with a request that Father Balthazar, who lived not
many houses off in the same street, would favour the Burgomeisterinn
Sorel by coming to speak with her.  In a few minutes he appeared,--an aged
man, with a sensible face, of the fresh pure bloom preserved by a
temperate life.  He was a secular parish-priest, and, as well as his
friend Master Gottfried, held greatly by the views left by the famous
Strasburg preacher, Master John Tauler.  After the good housemother had,
in strong terms, laid the case before him, she expected a trenchant
decision on her own side, but, to her surprise and disappointment, he
declared that Master Gottfried was right, and that, unless Hugh Sorel
demanded anything absolutely sinful of his daughter, it was needful that
she should submit.  He repeated, in stronger terms, the assurance that
she would be protected in the endeavour to do right, and the Divine
promises which he quoted from the Latin Scriptures gave some comfort to
the niece, who understood them, while they impressed the aunt, who did
not.  There was always the hope that, whether the young lady died or
recovered, the conclusion of her illness would be the term of Christina's
stay at Adlerstein, and with this trust Johanna must content herself.
The priest took leave, after appointing with Christina to meet her in the
confessional early in the morning before mass; and half the night was
spent by the aunt and niece in preparing Christina's wardrobe for her
sudden journey.

Many a tear was shed over the tokens of the little services she was wont
to render, her half-done works, and pleasant studies so suddenly broken
off, and all the time Hausfrau Johanna was running on with a lecture on
the diligent preservation of her maiden discretion, with plentiful
warnings against swaggering men-at-arms, drunken lanzknechts, and, above
all, against young barons, who most assuredly could mean no good by any
burgher maiden.  The good aunt blessed the saints that her Stina was
likely only to be lovely in affectionate home eyes; but, for that matter,
idle men, shut up in a castle, with nothing but mischief to think of,
would be dangerous to Little Three Eyes herself, and Christina had best
never stir a yard from her lady's chair, when forced to meet them.  All
this was interspersed with motherly advice how to treat the sick lady,
and receipts for cordials and possets; for Johanna began to regard the
case as a sort of second-hand one of her own.  Nay, she even turned it
over in her mind whether she should not offer herself as the Lady
Ermentrude's sick-nurse, as being a less dangerous commodity than her
little niece: but fears for the well-being of the master-carver, and his
Wirthschaft, and still more the notion of gossip Gertrude Grundt hearing
that she had ridden off with a wild lanzknecht, made her at once reject
the plan, without even mentioning it to her husband or his niece.

By the time Hugh Sorel rolled out from between his feather beds, and was
about to don his greasy buff, a handsome new suit, finished point device,
and a pair of huge boots to correspond, had been laid by his bedside
said he, as he stumbled into the Stube
was Gottfried's answer
laughed
Hugh
replied Gottfried; and Hugh, his
love of tormenting a little allayed by satisfaction in his buff suit, and
by an eye to a heavy purse that lay by his brother's hand on the table,
added
replied Christina, meekly
and for a moment there was a kindliness in his eye which made it
sufficiently like that of his brother to give some consolation to the
shrinking heart that he was rending from all it loved; and she steadied
her voice for another gentle profession of obedience, for which she felt
strengthened by the morning's orisons
replied her uncle
he muttered to himself.

But Hugh, like many a gentleman after him, was recusant at the sight of
his daughter's luggage; and yet it only loaded one sumpter mule, besides
forming a few bundles which could be easily bestowed upon the saddles of
his two knappen, while her lute hung by a silken string on her arm.  Both
she and her aunt thought she had been extremely moderate; but his cry
was, What could she want with so much?  Her mother had never been allowed
more than would go into a pair of saddle-bags; and his own Jungfrau--she
had never seen so much gear together in her life; he would be laughed to
scorn for his presumption in bringing such a fine lady into the castle;
it would be well if Freiherr Eberhard's bride brought half as much.

Still he had a certain pride in it--he was, after all, by birth and
breeding a burgher--and there had been evidently a softening and
civilizing influence in the night spent beneath his paternal roof, and
old habits, and perhaps likewise in the submission he had met with from
his daughter.  The attendants, too, who had been pleased with their
quarters, readily undertook to carry their share of the burthen, and,
though he growled and muttered a little, he at length was won over to
consent, chiefly, as it seemed, by Christina's obliging readiness to
leave behind the bundle that contained her holiday kirtle.

He had been spared all needless irritation.  Before his waking, Christina
had been at the priest's cell, and had received his last blessings and
counsels, and she had, on the way back, exchanged her farewells and tears
with her two dearest friends, Barbara Schmidt, and Regina Grundt,
confiding to the former her cage of doves, and to the latter the myrtle,
which, like every German maiden, she cherished in her window, to supply
her future bridal wreath.  Now pale as death, but so resolutely composed
as to be almost disappointing to her demonstrative aunt, she quietly went
through her home partings; while Hausfrau Johanna adjured her father by
all that was sacred to be a true guardian and protector of the child, and
he could not forbear from a few tormenting auguries about the lanzknecht
son-in-law.  Their effect was to make the good dame more passionate in
her embraces and admonitions to Christina to take care of herself.  She
would have a mass said every day that Heaven might have a care of her!

Master Gottfried was going to ride as far as the confines of the free
city's territory, and his round, sleek, cream-coloured palfrey, used to
ambling in civic processions, was as great a contrast to raw-boned,
wild-eyed Nibelung, all dappled with misty grey, as was the stately,
substantial burgher to his lean, hungry-looking brother, or Dame
Johanna's dignified, curled, white poodle, which was forcibly withheld
from following Christina, to the coarse-bristled, wolfish-looking hound
who glared at the household pet with angry and contemptuous eyes, and
made poor Christina's heart throb with terror whenever it bounded near
her.

Close to her uncle she kept, as beneath the trellised porches that came
down from the projecting gables of the burghers' houses many a well-known
face gazed and nodded, as they took their way through the crooked
streets, many a beggar or poor widow waved her a blessing.  Out into the
market-place, with its clear fountain adorned with arches and statues,
past the rising Dome Kirk, where the swarms of workmen unbonneted to the
master-carver, and the reiter paused with an irreverent sneer at the
small progress made since he could first remember the building.  How poor
little Christina's soul clung to every cusp of the lacework spire, every
arch of the window, each of which she had hailed as an achievement!  The
tears had well-nigh blinded her in a gush of feeling that came on her
unawares, and her mule had his own way as he carried her under the arch
of the tall and beautifully-sculptured bridge tower, and over the noble
bridge across the Danube.

Her uncle spoke much, low and earnestly, to his brother.  She knew it was
in commendation of her to his care, and an endeavour to impress him with
a sense of the kind of protection she would require, and she kept out of
earshot.  It was enough for her to see her uncle still, and feel that his
tenderness was with her, and around her.  But at last he drew his rein
he said.

Christina could not be restrained from springing from her mule, and
kneeling on the grass to receive his blessing, her face hidden in her
hands, that her father might not see her tears
said Gottfried, who seldom invoked
the saints
The tears rained down his cheeks, as Christina's head lay on his bosom,
and then with a last kiss he lifted her again on her mule, mounted his
horse, and turned back to the city, with his servant.

Hugh was merciful enough to let his daughter gaze long after the
retreating figure ere he summoned her on.  All day they rode, at first
through meadow lands and then through more broken, open ground, where at
mid-day they halted, and dined upon the plentiful fare with which the
housemother had provided them, over which Hugh smacked his lips, and
owned that they did live well in the old town!  Could Christina make such
sausages
The evening began to advance, and Christina was very weary, as the purple
mountains that she had long watched with a mixture of fear and hope began
to look more distinct, and the ground was often in abrupt ascents.  Her
father, without giving space for complaints, hurried her on.  He must
reach the Debateable Ford ere dark.  It was, however, twilight when they
came to an open space, where, at the foot of thickly forest-clad rising
ground, lay an expanse of turf and rich grass, through which a stream
made its way, standing in a wide tranquil pool as if to rest after its
rough course from the mountains.  Above rose, like a dark wall, crag upon
crag, peak on peak, in purple masses, blending with the sky; and Hugh,
pointing upwards to a turreted point, apparently close above their heads,
where a star of light was burning, told her that there was Adlerstein,
and this was the Debateable Ford.

In fact, as he explained, while splashing through the shallow expanse,
the stream had changed its course.  It was the boundary between the lands
of Schlangenwald and Adlerstein, but it had within the last sixty years
burst forth in a flood, and had then declined to return to its own bed,
but had flowed in a fresh channel to the right of the former one.  The
Freiherren von Adlerstein claimed the ground to the old channel, the
Graffen von Schlangenwald held that the river was the landmark; and the
dispute had a greater importance than seemed explained from the worth of
the rushy space of ground in question, for this was the passage of the
Italian merchants on their way from Constance, and every load that was
overthrown in the river was regarded as the lawful prey of the noble on
whose banks the catastrophe befell.

Any freight of goods was anxiously watched by both nobles, and it was not
their fault if no disaster befell the travellers.  Hugh talked of the
Schlangenwald marauders with the bitterness of a deadly feud, but
manifestly did not breathe freely till his whole convoy were safe across
both the wet and the dry channel.

Christina supposed they should now ascend to the castle; but her father
laughed, saying that the castle was not such a step off as she fancied,
and that they must have daylight for the Eagle's Stairs.  He led the way
through the trees, up ground that she thought mountain already, and
finally arrived at a miserable little hut, which served the purpose of an
inn.

He was received there with much obsequiousness, and was plainly a great
authority there.  Christina, weary and frightened, descended from her
mule, and was put under the protection of a wild, rough-looking peasant
woman, who stared at her like something from another world, but at length
showed her a nook behind a mud partition, where she could spread her
mantle, and at least lie down, and tell her beads unseen, if she could
not sleep in the stifling, smoky atmosphere, amid the sounds of carousal
among her father and his fellows.

The great hound came up and smelt to her.  His outline was so-wolfish,
that she had nearly screamed: but, more in terror at the men who might
have helped her than even at the beast, she tried to smooth him with her
trembling hand, whispered his name of
and found him licking
her hand, and wagging his long rough tail.  And he finally lay down at
her feet, as though to protect her
she thought,
and, wearied out, she slept
CHRISTINA SOREL awoke to a scene most unlike that which had been wont to
meet her eyes in her own little wainscoted chamber high in the gabled
front of her uncle's house.  It was a time when the imperial free towns
of Germany had advanced nearly as far as those of Italy in civilization,
and had reached a point whence they retrograded grievously during the
Thirty Years' War, even to an extent that they have never entirely
recovered.  The country immediately around them shared the benefits of
their civilization, and the free peasant-proprietors lived in great ease
and prosperity, in beautiful and picturesque farmsteads, enjoying a
careless abundance, and keeping numerous rural or religious feasts, where
old Teutonic mythological observances had received a Christian colouring
and adaptation.

In the mountains, or around the castles, it was usually very different.
The elective constitution of the empire, the frequent change of dynasty,
the many disputed successions, had combined to render the sovereign
authority uncertain and feeble, and it was seldom really felt save in the
hereditary dominions of the Kaiser for the time being.  Thus, while the
cities advanced in the power of self-government, and the education it
conveyed, the nobles, especially those whose abodes were not easily
accessible, were often practically under no government at all, and felt
themselves accountable to no man.  The old wild freedom of the Suevi, and
other Teutonic tribes, still technically, and in many cases practically,
existed.  The Heretogen, Heerzogen, or, as we call them, Dukes, had
indeed accepted employment from the Kaiser as his generals, and had
received rewards from him; the Gerefen, or Graffen, of all kinds were his
judges, the titles of both being proofs of their holding commissions
from, and being thus dependent on, the court.  But the Freiherren, a word
very inadequately represented by our French term of baron, were
absolutely free
holding their own, and
owing no duty, no office; poorer, because unendowed by the royal
authority, but holding themselves infinitely higher, than the pensioners
of the court.  Left behind, however, by their neighbours, who did their
part by society, and advanced with it, the Freiherren had been for the
most part obliged to give up their independence and fall into the system,
but so far in the rear, that they ranked, like the barons of France and
England, as the last order of nobility.

Still, however, in the wilder and more mountainous parts of the country,
some of the old families of unreduced, truly free Freiherren lingered,
their hand against every man, every man's hand against them, and ever
becoming more savage, both positively and still more proportionately, as
their isolation and the general progress around them became greater.  The
House of Austria, by gradually absorbing hereditary states into its own
possessions, was, however, in the fifteenth century, acquiring a
preponderance that rendered its possession of the imperial throne almost
a matter of inheritance, and moreover rendered the supreme power far more
effective than it had ever previously been.  Freidrich III. a man still
in full vigour, and with an able and enterprising son already elected to
the succession, was making his rule felt, and it was fast becoming
apparent that the days of the independent baronies were numbered, and
that the only choice that would soon be left them would be between making
terms and being forcibly reduced.  Von Adlerstein was one of the oldest
of these free families.  If the lords of the Eagle's Stone had ever
followed the great Konrads and Freidrichs of Swabia in their imperial
days, their descendants had taken care to forget the weakness, and
believed themselves absolutely free from all allegiance.

And the wildness of their territory was what might be expected from their
hostility to all outward influences.  The hostel, if it deserved the
name, was little more than a charcoal-burner's hut, hidden in the woods
at the foot of the mountain, serving as a halting-place for the
Freiherren's retainers ere they attempted the ascent.  The inhabitants
were allowed to ply their trade of charring wood in the forest on
condition of supplying the castle with charcoal, and of affording a
lodging to the followers on occasions like the present.

Grimy, half-clad, and brawny, with the whites of his eyes gleaming out of
his black face, Jobst the Kohler startled Christina terribly when she
came into the outer room, and met him returning from his night's work,
with his long stoking-pole in his hand.  Her father shouted with laughter
at her alarm
exclaimed Christina, in dismay
he said in a low voice
began
Christina; but her father squeezed her arm, and drowned her soft voice in
his loud tones
and his added imprecations seemed unnecessary,
so earnest were the asseverations of both the man and his wife that the
animal should be well cared for
said Hugh Sorel, as soon as he had placed her on
her mule, and led her out of hearing
Then, as she was about to speak
The caution did not add much to Christina's comfort; but she
presently asked
answered the father
The father and daughter were meantime proceeding along a dark path
through oak and birch woods, constantly ascending, until the oak grew
stunted and disappeared, and the opening glades showed steep, stony,
torrent-furrowed ramparts of hillside above them, looking to Christina's
eyes as if she were set to climb up the cathedral side like a snail or a
fly.  She quite gasped for breath at the very sight, and was told in
return to wait and see what she would yet say to the Adlerstreppe, or
Eagle's Ladder.  Poor child! she had no raptures for romantic scenery;
she knew that jagged peaks made very pretty backgrounds in illuminations,
but she had much rather have been in the smooth meadows of the environs
of Ulm.  The Danube looked much more agreeable to her, silver-winding
between its green banks, than did the same waters leaping down with noisy
voices in their stony, worn beds to feed the river that she only knew in
his grave breadth and majesty.  Yet, alarmed as she was, there was
something in the exhilaration and elasticity of the mountain air that
gave her an entirely new sensation of enjoyment and life, and seemed to
brace her limbs and spirits for whatever might be before her; and,
willing to show herself ready to be gratified, she observed on the
freshness and sweetness of the air
For, having passed beyond the region of wood they had come forth upon the
mountain-side.  A not immoderately steep slope of boggy, mossy-looking
ground covered with bilberries, cranberries, &amp;c. and with bare rocks here
and there rising, went away above out of her ken; but the path she was
upon turned round the shoulder of the mountain, and to the left, on a
ledge of rock cut off apparently on their side by a deep ravine, and with
a sheer precipice above and below it, stood a red stone pile, with one
turret far above the rest
she exclaimed
It was well that Christina had resolution to prevent her making a fool of
herself on the spot, for the thought of the pathway turned her so dizzy
that she could only shut her eyes, trusting that her father did not see
her terror.  Soon the turn round to the side of the mountain was made,
and the road became a mere track worn out on the turf on the hillside,
with an abyss beneath, close to the edge of which the mule, of course,
walked.

When she ventured to look again, she perceived that the ravine was like
an enormous crack open on the mountain-side, and that the stream that
formed the Debateable Ford flowed down the bottom of it.  The ravine
itself went probably all the way up the mountain, growing shallower as it
ascended higher; but here, where Christina beheld it, it was extremely
deep, and savagely desolate and bare.  She now saw that the Eagle's
Ladder was a succession of bare gigantic terraces of rock, of which the
opposite side of the ravine was composed, and on one of which stood the
castle.  It was no small mystery to her how it had ever been built, or
how she was ever to get there.  She saw in the opening of the ravine the
green meadows and woods far below; and, when her father pointed out to
her the Debateable Ford, apparently much nearer to the castle than they
themselves were at present, she asked why they had so far overpassed the
castle, and come by this circuitous course
said Hugh
said Christina
pointing to a white
foamy thread that descended the opposite steeps
The fearful steepness of the ground absorbed all Christina's attention.
The road, or rather stairs, came down to the stream at the bottom of the
fissure, and then went again on the other side up still more tremendous
steeps, which Hugh climbed with a staff, sometimes with his hand on the
bridle, but more often only keeping a watchful eye on the sure-footed
mule, and an arm to steady his daughter in the saddle when she grew
absolutely faint with giddiness at the abyss around her.  She was too
much in awe of him to utter cry or complaint, and, when he saw her effort
to subdue her mortal terror, he was far from unkind, and let her feel his
protecting strength.

Presently a voice was heard above
The words were in the most boorish dialect and pronunciation, the
stranger to Christina's ears, because intercourse with foreign merchants,
and a growing affectation of Latinism, had much refined the city language
to which she was accustomed; and she was surprised to perceive by her
father's gesture and address that the speaker must be one of the lords of
the castle.  She looked up, and saw on the pathway above her a tall,
large-framed young man, his skin dyed red with sun and wind, in odd
contrast with his pale shaggy hair, moustache, and beard, as though the
weather had tanned the one and bleached the other.  His dress was a still
shabbier buff suit than her father had worn, but with a
richly-embroidered belt sustaining a hunting-horn with finely-chased
ornaments of tarnished silver, and an eagle's plume was fastened into his
cap with a large gold Italian coin.  He stared hard at the maiden, but
vouchsafed her no token of greeting--only distressed her considerably by
distracting her father's attention from her mule by his questions about
the journey, all in the same rude, coarse tone and phraseology.  Some
amount of illusion was dispelled.  Christina was quite prepared to find
the mountain lords dangerous ruffians, but she had expected the graces of
courtesy and high birth; but, though there was certainly an air of
command and freedom of bearing about the present specimen, his manners
and speech were more uncouth than those of any newly-caught apprentice of
her uncle, and she could not help thinking that her good aunt Johanna
need not have troubled herself about the danger of her taking a liking to
any such young Freiherr as she here beheld.

By this time a last effort of the mule had climbed to the level of the
castle.  As her father had shown her, there was precipice on two sides of
the building; on the third, a sheer wall of rock going up to a huge
height before it reached another of the Eagle's Steps; and on the fourth,
where the gateway was, the little beck had been made to flow in a deep
channel that had been hollowed out to serve as a moat, before it bounded
down to swell the larger water-course in the ravine.  A temporary bridge
had been laid across; the drawbridge was out of order, and part of Hugh's
business had been to procure materials for mending its apparatus.
Christina was told to dismount and cross on foot.  The unrailed board, so
close to the abyss, and with the wild water foaming above and below, was
dreadful to her; and, though she durst not speak, she hung back with an
involuntary shudder, as her father, occupied with the mule, did not think
of giving her a hand.  The young baron burst out into an unrestrained
laugh--a still greater shock to her feelings; but at the same time he
roughly took her hand, and almost dragged her across, saying
she strove to say, but she was very near
weeping with the terror and strangeness of all around.

The low-browed gateway, barely high enough to admit a man on horseback,
opened before her, almost to her feelings like the gate of the grave, and
she could not help crossing herself, with a silent prayer for protection,
as she stepped under it, and came into the castle court--not such a court
as gave its name to fair courtesy, but, if truth must be told, far more
resembling an ill-kept, ill-savoured stable-yard, with the piggeries
opening into it.  In unpleasantly close quarters, the Schneiderlein, or
little tailor, _i.e._ the biggest and fiercest of all the knappen, was
grooming Nibelung; three long-backed, long-legged, frightful swine were
grubbing in a heap of refuse; four or five gaunt ferocious-looking dogs
came bounding up to greet their comrade Festhold; and a great old
long-bearded goat stood on the top of the mixen, looking much disposed to
butt at any newcomer.  The Sorel family had brought cleanliness from
Flanders, and Hausfrau Johanna was scrupulously dainty in all her
appointments.  Christina scarcely knew how she conveyed herself and her
blue kirtle across the bemired stones to the next and still darker
portal, under which a wide but rough ill-hewn stair ascended.  The
stables, in fact, occupied the lower floor of the main building, and not
till these stairs had ascended above them did they lead out into the
castle hall.  Here were voices--voices rude and harsh, like those
Christina had shrunk from in passing drinking booths.  There was a long
table, with rough men-at-arms lounging about, and staring rudely at her;
and at the upper end, by a great open chimney, sat, half-dozing, an
elderly man, more rugged in feature than his son; and yet, when he roused
himself and spoke to Hugh, there was a shade more of breeding, and less
of clownishness in his voice and deportment, as if he had been less
entirely devoid of training.  A tall darkly-robed woman stood beside
him--it was her harsh tone of reproof and command that had so startled
Christina as she entered--and her huge towering cap made her look gigantic
in the dim light of the smoky hall.  Her features had been handsome, but
had become hardened into a grim wooden aspect; and with sinking spirits
Christina paused at the step of the dais, and made her reverence, wishing
she could sink beneath the stones of the pavement out of sight of these
terrible personages
was
Freiherrinn Kunigunde's greeting
added the old Freiherr, sitting up
pointed the lady towards one of the four corner towers; and
Christina moved doubtfully towards it, reluctant to quit her father, her
only protector, and afraid to introduce herself.  The younger Freiherr,
however, stepped before her, went striding two or three steps at a time
up the turret stair, and, before Christina had wound her way up, she
heard a thin, impatient voice say
she heard Freiherr Eberhard return
And then both laughed,
so that Christina's cheeks tingled as she emerged from the turret into
another vaulted room
quoth the brother
It was a very bare and desolate room, with no hangings to the rough stone
walls, and scarcely any furniture, except a great carved bedstead, one
wooden chair, a table, and some stools.  On the bare floor, in front of
the fire, her arm under her head, and a profusion of long hair falling
round her like flax from a distaff, lay wearily a little figure, beside
whom Sir Eberhard was kneeling on one knee
said he, looking up to the newcomer
In an excess of dumb shyness Ermentrude half rose, and effectually
hindered any observations on her looks by hiding her face away upon her
brother's knee.  It was the gesture of a child of five years old, but
Ermentrude's length of limb forbade Christina to suppose her less than
fourteen or fifteen
he said, trying to
raise her head; and then, holding out one of her wasted, feverish hands
to Christina, he again asked, with a wistfulness that had a strange
effect from the large, tall man, almost ten years her elder
replied Christina
murmured the sick girl, holding
out her hands towards it, and shivering.

Christina quickly took off her own thick cloth mantle, well lined with
dressed lambskins, laid it on the floor, rolled the collar of it over a
small log of wood--the only substitute she could see for a pillow--and
showed an inviting couch in an instant.  Ermentrude let her brother lay
her down, and then was covered with the ample fold.  She smiled as she
turned up her thin, wasted face, faded into the same whitey-brown tint as
her hair
she said, but without thanks; and, feeling the
soft lambswool
Christina's blood curdled as she heard this speech in a weak little
complaining tone, that otherwise put her sadly in mind of Barbara
Schmidt's little sister, who had pined and wasted to death
answered the brother kindly
cried the young lady eagerly; and Sir Eberhard, walking
off, presently returned with an armful of the beautiful brindled furs of
the mountain cat, reminding Christina of her aunt's gentle domestic
favourite.  Ermentrude sat up, and regarded the placing out of them with
great interest; and thus her brother left her employed, and so much
delighted that she had not flagged, when a great bell proclaimed that it
was the time for the noontide meal, for which Christina, in spite of all
her fears of the company below stairs, had been constrained by mountain
air to look forward with satisfaction.

Ermentrude, she found, meant to go down, but with no notion of the
personal arrangements that Christina had been wont to think a needful
preliminary.  With all her hair streaming, down she went, and was so
gladly welcomed by her father that it was plain that her presence was
regarded as an unusual advance towards recovery, and Christina feared
lest he might already be looking out for the stout husband.  She had much
to tell him about the catskin cloak, and then she was seized with eager
curiosity at the sight of Christina's bundles, and especially at her
lute, which she must hear at once
said her mother
The whole establishment were taking their places--or rather tumbling into
them.  A battered, shapeless metal vessel seemed to represent the
salt-cellar, and next to it Hugh Sorel seated himself, and kept a place
for her beside him.  Otherwise she would hardly have had seat or food.'
She was now able to survey the inmates of the castle.  Besides the family
themselves, there were about a dozen men, all ruffianly-looking, and of
much lower grade than her father, and three women.  One, old Ursel, the
wife of Hatto the forester, was a bent, worn, but not ill-looking woman,
with a motherly face; the younger ones were hard, bold creatures, from
whom Christina felt a shrinking recoil.  The meal was dressed by Ursel
and her kitchen boy.  From a great cauldron, goat's flesh and broth
together were ladled out into wooden bowls.  That every one provided
their own spoon and knife--no fork--was only what Christina was used to in
the most refined society, and she had the implements in a pouch hanging
to her girdle; but she was not prepared for the unwashed condition of the
bowls, nor for being obliged to share that of her father--far less for the
absence of all blessing on the meal, and the coarse boisterousness of
manners prevailing thereat.  Hungry as she was, she did not find it easy
to take food under these circumstances, and she was relieved when
Ermentrude, overcome by the turmoil, grew giddy, and was carried upstairs
by her father, who laid her down upon her great bed, and left her to the
attendance of Christina.  Ursel had followed, but was petulantly repulsed
by her young lady in favour of the newcomer, and went away grumbling.

Nestled on her bed, Ermentrude insisted on hearing the lute, and
Christina had to creep down to fetch it, with some other of her goods, in
trembling haste, and redoubled disgust at the aspect of the meal, which
looked even more repulsive in this later stage, and to one who was no
longer partaking of it.

Low and softly, with a voice whence she could scarcely banish tears, and
in dread of attracting attention, Christina sung to the sick girl, who
listened with a sort of rude wonder, and finally was lulled to sleep.
Christina ventured to lay down her instrument and move towards the
window, heavily mullioned with stone, barred with iron, and glazed with
thick glass; being in fact the only glazed window in the castle.  To her
great satisfaction it did not look out over the loathsome court, but over
the opening of the ravine.  The apartment occupied the whole floor of the
keep; it was stone-paved, but the roof was boarded, and there was a round
turret at each angle.  One contained the staircase, and was that which
ran up above the keep, served as a watch-tower, and supported the Eagle
banner.  The other three were empty, and one of these, which had a strong
door, and a long loophole window looking out over the open country,
Christina hoped that she might appropriate.  The turret was immediately
over the perpendicular cliff that descended into the plain.  A stone
thrown from the window would have gone straight down, she knew not where.
Close to her ears rushed the descending waterfall in its leap over the
rock side, and her eyes could rest themselves on the green meadow land
below, and the smooth water of the Debateable Ford; nay--far, far away
beyond retreating ridges of wood and field--she thought she could track a
silver line and, guided by it, a something that might be a city.  Her
heart leapt towards it, but she was recalled by Ermentrude's fretfully
imperious voice
she said, returning
cried Ermentrude, starting
up with lively interest
said Ermentrude languidly
said Ermentrude, rising; but at the window
her pale blue eyes gazed vacantly as if she did not know what she was
looking at or for
said Christina
repeated Ermentrude
Such an entire blank as the poor child's mind seemed to be was
inconceivable to the maiden, who had been bred up in the busy hum of men,
where the constant resort of strange merchants, the daily interests of a
self-governing municipality, and the numerous festivals, both secular and
religious, were an unconscious education, even without that which had
been bestowed upon her by teachers, as well as by her companionship with
her uncle, and participation in his studies, taste and arts.

Ermentrude von Adlerstein had, on the contrary, not only never gone
beyond the Kohler's hut on the one side, and the mountain village on the
other, but she never seen more of life than the festival at the wake the
hermitage chapel there on Midsummer-day.  The only strangers who ever
came to the castle were disbanded lanzknechts who took service with her
father, or now and then a captive whom he put to ransom.  She knew
absolutely nothing of the world, except for a general belief that
Freiherren lived there to do what they chose with other people, and that
the House of Adlerstein was the freest and noblest in existence.  Also
there was a very positive hatred to the house of Schlangenwald, and no
less to that of Adlerstein Wildschloss, for no reason that Christina
could discover save that, being a younger branch of the family, they had
submitted to the Emperor.  To destroy either the Graf von Schlangenwald,
or her Wildschloss cousin, was evidently the highest gratification
Ermentrude could conceive; and, for the rest, that her father and brother
should make successful captures at the Debateable Ford was the more
abiding, because more practicable hope.  She had no further ideas, except
perhaps to elude her mother's severity, and to desire her brother's
success in chamois-hunting.  The only mental culture she had ever
received was that old Ursel had taught her the Credo, Pater Noster, and
Ave, as correctly as might be expected from a long course of traditionary
repetitions of an incomprehensible language.  And she knew besides a few
German rhymes and jingles, half Christian, half heathen, with a legend or
two which, if the names were Christian, ran grossly wild from all
Christian meaning or morality.  As to the amenities, nay, almost the
proprieties, of life, they were less known in that baronial castle than
in any artisan's house at Ulm.  So little had the sick girl figured them
to herself, that she did not even desire any greater means of ease than
she possessed.  She moaned and fretted indeed, with aching limbs and
blank weariness, but without the slightest formed desire for anything to
remove her discomfort, except the few ameliorations she knew, such as
sitting on her brother's knee, with her head on his shoulder, or tasting
the mountain berries that he gathered for her.  Any other desire she
exerted herself to frame was for finery to be gained from the spoils of
travellers.

And this was Christina's charge, whom she must look upon as the least
alien spirit in this dreadful castle of banishment!  The young and old
lords seemed to her savage bandits, who frightened her only less than did
the proud sinister expression of the old lady, for she had not even the
merit of showing any tenderness towards the sickly girl, of whom she was
ashamed, and evidently regarded the town-bred attendant as a contemptible
interloper.

Long, long did the maiden weep and pray that night after Ermentrude had
sunk to sleep.  She strained her eyes with home-sick longings to detect
lights where she thought Ulm might be; and, as she thought of her uncle
and aunt, the poodle and the cat round the stove, the maids spinning and
the prentices knitting as her uncle read aloud some grave good book, most
probably the legend of the saint of the day, and contrasted it with the
rude gruff sounds of revelry that found their way up the turret stairs,
she could hardly restrain her sobs from awakening the young lady whose
bed she was to share.  She thought almost with envy of her own patroness,
who was cast into the lake of Bolsena with a millstone about her neck--a
better fate, thought she, than to live on in such an abode of
loathsomeness and peril.

But then had not St. Christina floated up alive, bearing up her millstone
with her?  And had not she been put into a dungeon full of venomous
reptiles who, when they approached her, had all been changed to harmless
doves?  Christina had once asked Father Balthazar how this could be; and
had he not replied that the Church did not teach these miracles as
matters of faith, but that she might there discern in figure how meek
Christian holiness rose above all crushing burthens, and transformed the
rudest natures.  This poor maiden-dying, perhaps; and oh! how unfit to
live or die!--might it be her part to do some good work by her, and infuse
some Christian hope, some godly fear?  Could it be for this that the
saints had led her hither
LIFE in Schloss Adlerstein was little less intolerable than Christina's
imagination had depicted it.  It was entirely devoid of all the graces of
chivalry, and its squalor and coarseness, magnified into absurdity by
haughtiness and violence, were almost inconceivable.  Fortunately for
her, the inmates of the castle resided almost wholly below stairs in the
hall and kitchen, and in some dismal dens in the thickness of their
walls.  The height of the keep was intended for dignity and defence,
rather than for habitation; and the upper chamber, with its great
state-bed, where everybody of the house of Adlerstein was born and died,
was not otherwise used, except when Ermentrude, unable to bear the
oppressive confusion below stairs, had escaped thither for quietness'
sake.  No one else wished to inhabit it.  The chamber above was filled
with the various appliances for the defence of the castle; and no one
would have ever gone up the turret stairs had not a warder been usually
kept on the roof to watch the roads leading to the Ford.  Otherwise the
Adlersteiners had all the savage instinct of herding together in as small
a space as possible.

Freiherrin Kunigunde hardly ever mounted to her daughter's chamber.  All
her affection was centred on the strong and manly son, of whom she was
proud, while the sickly pining girl, who would hardly find a mate of her
own rank, and who had not even dowry enough for a convent, was such a
shame and burthen to her as to be almost a distasteful object.  But
perversely, as it seemed to her, the only daughter was the darling of
both father and brother, who were ready to do anything to gratify the
girl's sick fancies, and hailed with delight her pleasure in her new
attendant.  Old Ursel was at first rather envious and contemptuous of the
childish, fragile stranger, but her gentleness disarmed the old woman;
and, when it was plain that the young lady's sufferings were greatly
lessened by tender care, dislike gave way to attachment, and there was
little more murmuring at the menial services that were needed by the two
maidens, even when Ermentrude's feeble fancies, or Christina's views of
dainty propriety, rendered them more onerous than before.  She was even
heard to rejoice that some Christian care and tenderness had at last
reached her poor neglected child.

It was well for Christina that she had such an ally.  The poor child
never crept down stairs to the dinner or supper, to fetch food for
Ermentrude, or water for herself, without a trembling and shrinking of
heart and nerves.  Her father's authority guarded her from rude actions,
but from rough tongues he neither could nor would guard her, nor
understand that what to some would have been a compliment seemed to her
an alarming insult; and her chief safeguard lay in her own insignificance
and want of attraction, and still more in the modesty that concealed her
terror at rude jests sufficiently to prevent frightening her from
becoming an entertainment.

Her father, whom she looked on as a cultivated person in comparison with
the rest of the world, did his best for her after his own views, and
gradually brought her all the properties she had left at the Kohler's
hut.  Therewith she made a great difference in the aspect of the chamber,
under the full sanction of the lords of the castle.  Wolf, deer, and
sheep skins abounded; and with these, assisted by her father and old
Hatto, she tapestried the lower part of the bare grim walls, a great
bear's hide covered the neighbourhood of the hearth, and cushions were
made of these skins, and stuffed from Ursel's stores of feathers.  All
these embellishments were watched with great delight by Ermentrude, who
had never been made of so much importance, and was as much surprised as
relieved by such attentions.  She was too young and too delicate to
reject civilization, and she let Christina braid her hair, bathe her, and
arrange her dress, with sensations of comfort that were almost like
health.  To train her into occupying herself was however, as Christina
soon found, in her present state, impossible.  She could spin and sew a
little, but hated both; and her clumsy, listless fingers only soiled and
wasted Christina's needles, silk, and lute strings, and such damage was
not so easily remedied as in the streets of Ulm.  She was best provided
for when looking on at her attendant's busy hands, and asking to be sung
to, or to hear tales of the active, busy scenes of the city life--the
dresses, fairs, festivals, and guild processions
Page 37&rsqb;

The gentle nursing and the new interests made her improve in health, so
that her father was delighted, and Christina began to hope for a return
home.  Sometimes the two girls would take the air, either, on still days,
upon the battlements, where Ermentrude watched the Debateable Ford, and
Christina gazed at the Danube and at Ulm; or they would find their way to
a grassy nook on the mountain-side, where Christina gathered gentians and
saxifrage, trying to teach her young lady that they were worth looking
at, and sighing at the thought of Master Gottfried's wreath when she met
with the asphodel seed-vessels.  Once the quiet mule was brought into
requisition; and, with her brother walking by her, and Sorel and his
daughter in attendance, Ermentrude rode towards the village of
Adlerstein.  It was a collection of miserable huts, on a sheltered slope
towards the south, where there was earth enough to grow some wretched rye
and buckwheat, subject to severe toll from the lord of the soil.  Perched
on a hollow rock above the slope was a rude little church, over a cave
where a hermit had once lived and died in such odour of sanctity that,
his day happening to coincide with that of St. John the Baptist, the
Blessed Freidmund had acquired the credit of the lion's share both of the
saint's honours and of the old solstitial feast of Midsummer.  This wake
was the one gaiety of the year, and attracted a fair which was the sole
occasion of coming honestly by anything from the outer world; nor had his
cell ever lacked a professional anchorite.

The Freiherr of his day had been a devout man, who had gone a pilgrimage
with Kaiser Friedrich of the Red Beard, and had brought home a bit of
stone from the council chamber of Nicaea, which he had presented to the
little church that he had built over the cavern.  He had named his son
Friedmund; and there were dim memories of his days as of a golden age,
before the Wildschlossen had carried off the best of the property, and
when all went well.

This was Christina's first sight of a church since her arrival, except
that in the chapel, which was a dismal neglected vault, where a ruinous
altar and mouldering crucifix testified to its sacred purpose.  The old
baron had been excommunicated for twenty years, ever since he had harried
the wains of the Bishop of Augsburg on his way to the Diet; and, though
his household and family were not under the same sentence
Christina's entreaty obtained permission to enter
the little building, but she had knelt there only a few moments before
her father came to hurry her away, and her supplications that he would
some day take her to mass there were whistled down the wind; and indeed
the hermit was a layman, and the church was only served on great
festivals by a monk from the convent of St. Ruprecht, on the distant side
of the mountain, which was further supposed to be in the Schlangenwald
interest.  Her best chance lay in infusing the desire into Ermentrude,
who by watching her prayers and asking a few questions had begun to
acquire a few clearer ideas.  And what Ermentrude wished had always
hitherto been acquiesced in by the two lords.

The elder baron came little into Christina's way.  He meant to be kind to
her, but she was dreadfully afraid of him, and, when he came to visit his
daughter, shrank out of his notice as much as possible, shuddering most
of all at his attempts at civilities.  His son she viewed as one of the
thickwitted giants meant to be food for the heroism of good knights of
romance.  Except that he was fairly conversant with the use of weapons,
and had occasionally ridden beyond the shadow of his own mountain, his
range was quite as limited as his sister's; and he had an equal scorn for
all beyond it.  His unfailing kindness to his sister was however in his
favour, and he always eagerly followed up any suggestion Christina made
for her pleasure.

Much of his time was spent on the child, whose chief nurse and playmate
he had been throughout her malady; and when she showed him the stranger's
arrangements, or repeated to him, in a wondering, blundering way, with
constant appeals to her attendant, the new tales she had heard, he used
to listen with a pleased awkward amazement at his little Ermentrude's
astonishing cleverness, joined sometimes with real interest, which was
evinced by his inquiries of Christina.  He certainly did not admire the
little, slight, pale bower-maiden, but he seemed to look upon her like
some strange, almost uncanny, wise spirit out of some other sphere, and
his manner towards her had none of the offensive freedom apparent in even
the old man's patronage.  It was, as Ermentrude once said, laughing,
almost as if he feared that she might do something to him.

Christina had expected to see a ruffian, and had found a boor; but she
was to be convinced that the ruffian existed in him.  Notice came up to
the castle of a convoy of waggons, and all was excitement.  Men-at-arms
were mustered, horses led down the Eagle's Ladder, and an ambush prepared
in the woods.  The autumn rains were already swelling the floods, and the
passage of the ford would be difficult enough to afford the assailants an
easy prey.

The Freiherrinn Kunigunde herself, and all the women of the castle,
hurried into Ermentrude's room to enjoy the view from her window.  The
young lady herself was full of eager expectation, but she knew enough of
her maiden to expect no sympathy from her, and loved her well enough not
to bring down on her her mother's attention; so Christina crept into her
turret, unable to withdraw her eyes from the sight, trembling, weeping,
praying, longing for power to give a warning signal.  Could they be her
own townsmen stopped on the way to dear Ulm?

She could see the waggons in mid-stream, the warriors on the bank; she
heard the triumphant outcries of the mother and daughter in the outer
room.  She saw the overthrow, the struggle, the flight of a few scattered
dark figures on the farther side, the drawing out of the goods on the
nearer.  Oh! were those leaping waves bearing down any good men's corpses
to the Danube, slain, foully slain by her own father and this gang of
robbers?

She was glad that Ermentrude went down with her mother to watch the
return of the victors.  She crouched on the floor, sobbing, shuddering
with grief and indignation, and telling her beads alike for murdered and
murderers, till, after the sounds of welcome and exultation, she heard
Sir Eberhard's heavy tread, as he carried his sister up stairs.
Ermentrude went up at once to Christina
she said
Christina asked with pale lips
returned the baron
continued Ermentrude
said Eberhard,
holding out a brooch that had doubtless fastened the band of the
unfortunate wine-merchant's bonnet
said Christina, turning
crimson, and drawing back
he exclaimed, in amaze; then bethinking himself
added Ermentrude
said
Christina, with trembling voice
said Eberhard
he added earnestly
repeated Christina, pushed hard, and very indignant in
all her terror
And the dark eyes flashed a vivid light
exclaimed Ermentrude in the extremity of her amazement
He meanwhile stood silent, utterly taken by surprise, and letting his
little sister fight his battles
said Christina, with trembling lips,
and eyes filling with tears
cried Ermentrude, passionately, ready to fly
to the head of the stairs; but her brother laid his hand upon her
And he turned on his heels and went down stairs.  Christina crept into
her turret, weeping bitterly and with many a wild thought.  Would they
visit her offence on her father?  Would they turn them both out together?
If so, would not her father hurl her down the rocks rather than return
her to Ulm?  Could she escape?  Climb down the dizzy rocks, it might be,
succour the merchant lying half dead on the meadows, protect and be
protected, be once more among God-fearing Christians?  And as she felt
her helplessness, the selfish thoughts passed into a gush of tears for
the murdered man, lying suffering there, and for his possible wife and
children watching for him.  Presently Ermentrude peeped in
said Christina
said Ermentrude
said Christina, recovering herself, and
aware that it was of little use to bear testimony to such an auditor as
poor little Ermentrude against the deeds of her own father and brother,
which had in reality the sort of sanction Sir Eberhard had mentioned,
much akin to those coast rights that were the temptation of wreckers.

Still she could not but tremble at the thought of her speech, and went
down to supper in greater trepidation than usual, dreading that she
should be expected to thank the Freiherr for his gift.  But, fortunately,
manners were too rare at Adlerstein for any such omission to be
remarkable, and the whole establishment was in a state of noisy triumph
and merriment over the excellence of the French wine they had captured,
so that she slipped into her seat unobserved.

Every available drinking-horn and cup was full.  Ermentrude was eagerly
presented with draughts by both father and brother, and presently Sir
Eberhard exclaimed, turning towards the shrinking Christina with a rough
laugh
Christina shook her head, and framed a negative with her lips
asked her father, close to whom she sat
There was a pause.  Many were present who regarded a fast-day much more
than the lives or goods of their neighbours.  Christina again shook her
head
said good-natured Sir Eberhard, evidently wishing to avert
any ill consequence from her
The mirth went on rough and loud, and Christina felt this the worst of
all the miserable meals she had partaken of in fear and trembling at this
place of her captivity.  Ermentrude, too, was soon in such a state of
excitement, that not only was Christina's womanhood bitterly ashamed and
grieved for her, but there was serious danger that she might at any
moment break out with some allusion to her maiden's recusancy in her
reply to Sir Eberhard.

Presently however Ermentrude laid down her head and began to cry--violent
headache had come on--and her brother took her in his arms to carry her up
the stairs; but his potations had begun before hers, and his step was far
from steady; he stumbled more than once on the steps, shook and
frightened his sister, and set her down weeping petulantly.  And then
came a more terrible moment; his awe of Christina had passed away; he
swore that she was a lovely maiden, with only too free a tongue, and that
a kiss must be the seal of her pardon.

A house full of intoxicated men, no living creature who would care to
protect her, scarce even her father!  But extremity of terror gave her
strength.  She spoke resolutely
Probably the low-toned softness of the voice, so utterly different from
the shrill wrangling notes of all the other women he had known, took him
by surprise.  He was still sober enough to be subdued, almost cowed, by
resistance of a description unlike all he had ever seen; his alarm at
Christina's superior power returned in full force, he staggered to the
stairs, Christina rushed after him, closed the heavy door with all her
force, fastened it inside, and would have sunk down to weep but for
Ermentrude's peevish wail of distress.

Happily Ermentrude was still a child, and, neglected as she had been, she
still had had no one to make her precocious in matters of this kind.  She
was quite willing to take Christina's view of the case, and not resent
the exclusion of her brother; indeed, she was unwell enough to dread the
loudness of his voice and rudeness of his revelry.

So the door remained shut, and Christina's resolve was taken that she
would so keep it while the wine lasted.  And, indeed, Ermentrude had so
much fever all that night and the next day that no going down could be
thought of.  Nobody came near the maidens but Ursel, and she described
one continued orgie that made Christina shudder again with fear and
disgust.  Those below revelled without interval, except for sleep; and
they took their sleep just where they happened to sink down, then
returned again to the liquor.  The old baroness repaired to the kitchen
when the revelry went beyond even her bearing; but all the time the wine
held out, the swine in the court were, as Ursel averred, better company
than the men in the hall.  Yet there might have been worse even than
this; for old Ursel whispered that at the bottom of the stairs there was
a trap-door.  Did the maiden know what it covered?  It was an oubliette.
There was once a Strasburg armourer who had refused ransom, and talked of
appealing to the Kaiser.  He trod on that door and--Ursel pointed
downwards
she said
No wonder that all this time Christina cowered at the discordant sounds
below, trembled, and prayed while she waited on her poor young charge,
who tossed and moaned in fever and suffering.  She was still far from
recovered when the materials of the debauch failed, and the household
began to return to its usual state.  She was soon restlessly pining for
her brother; and when her father came up to see her, received him with
scant welcome, and entreaties for Ebbo.  She knew she should be better if
she might only sit on his knee, and lay her head on his shoulder.  The
old Freiherr offered to accommodate her; but she rejected him petulantly,
and still called for Ebbo, till he went down, promising that her brother
should come.

With a fluttering heart Christina awaited the noble whom she had perhaps
insulted, and whose advances had more certainly insulted her.  Would he
visit her with his anger, or return to that more offensive familiarity?
She longed to flee out of sight, when, after a long interval, his heavy
tread was heard; but she could not even take refuge in her turret, for
Ermentrude was leaning against her.  Somehow, the step was less assured
than usual; he absolutely knocked at the door; and, when he came in, he
acknowledged her by a slight inclination of the head.  If she only had
known it, this was the first time that head had ever been bent to any
being, human or Divine; but all she did perceive was that Sir Eberhard
was in neither of the moods she dreaded, only desperately shy and
sheepish, and extremely ashamed, not indeed of his excess, which would
have been, even to a much tamer German baron, only a happy accident, but
of what had passed between himself and her.

He was much grieved to perceive how much ground Ermentrude had lost, and
gave himself up to fondling and comforting her; and in a few days more,
in their common cares for the sister, Christina lost her newly-acquired
horror of the brother, and could not but be grateful for his forbearance;
while she was almost entertained by the increased awe of herself shown by
this huge robber baron
ERMENTRUDE had by no means recovered the ground she had lost, before the
winter set in; and blinding snow came drifting down day and night,
rendering the whole view, above and below, one expanse of white, only
broken by the peaks of rock which were too steep to sustain the snow.
The waterfall lengthened its icicles daily, and the whole court was
heaped with snow, up even to the top of the high steps to the hall; and
thus, Christina was told, would it continue all the winter.  What had
previously seemed to her a strangely door-like window above the porch now
became the only mode of egress, when the barons went out bear or
wolf-hunting, or the younger took his crossbow and hound to provide the
wild-fowl, which, under Christina's skilful hands, would tempt the feeble
appetite of Ermentrude when she was utterly unable to touch the salted
meats and sausages of the household.

In spite of all endeavours to guard the windows and keep up the fire, the
cold withered the poor child like a fading leaf, and she needed more and
more of tenderness and amusement to distract her attention from her
ailments.  Christina's resources were unfailing.  Out of the softer pine
and birch woods provided for the fire, she carved a set of draughtsmen,
and made a board by ruling squares on the end of a settle, and painting
the alternate ones with a compound of oil and charcoal.  Even the old
Baron was delighted with this contrivance, and the pleasure it gave his
daughter.  He remembered playing at draughts in that portion of his youth
which had been a shade more polished, and he felt as if the game were
making Ermentrude more hike a lady.  Christina was encouraged to proceed
with a set of chessmen, and the shaping of their characteristic heads
under her dexterous fingers was watched by Ermentrude like something
magical.  Indeed, the young lady entertained the belief that there was no
limit to her attendant's knowledge or capacity.

Truly there was a greater brightness and clearness beginning to dawn even
upon poor little Ermentrude's own dull mind.  She took more interest in
everything: songs were not solely lullabies, but she cared to talk them
over; tales to which she would once have been incapable of paying
attention were eagerly sought after; and, above all, the spiritual
vacancy that her mind had hitherto presented was beginning to be filled
up.  Christina had brought her own books--a library of extraordinary
extent for a maiden of the fifteenth century, but which she owed to her
uncle's connexion with the arts of wood-cutting and printing.  A Vulgate
from Dr. Faustus's own press, a mass book and breviary, Thomas a Kempis's
_Imitation_ and the _Nuremburg Chronicle_ all in Latin, and the poetry of
the gentle Minnesinger and bird lover, Walther von Vogelweide, in the
vernacular: these were her stock, which Hausfrau Johanna had viewed as a
foolish encumbrance, and Hugh Sorel would never have transported to the
castle unless they had been so well concealed in Christina's kirtles that
he had taken them for parts of her wardrobe.

Most precious were they now, when, out of the reach of all teaching save
her own, she had to infuse into the sinking girl's mind the great
mysteries of life and death, that so she might not leave the world
without more hope or faith than her heathen forefathers.  For that
Ermentrude would live Christina had never hoped, since that fleeting
improvement had been cut short by the fever of the wine-cup; the look,
voice, and tone had become so completely the same as those of Regina
Grundt's little sister who had pined and died.  She knew she could not
cure, but she could, she felt she could, comfort, cheer, and soften, and
she no longer repined at her enforced sojourn at Adlerstein.  She
heartily loved her charge, and could not bear to think how desolate
Ermentrude would be without her.  And now the poor girl had become
responsive to her care.  She was infinitely softened in manner, and
treated her parents with forms of respect new to them; she had learnt
even to thank old Ursel, dropped her imperious tone, and struggled with
her petulance; and, towards her brother, the domineering, uncouth
adherence was becoming real, tender affection; while the dependent,
reverent love she bestowed upon Christina was touching and endearing in
the extreme.

Freiherr von Adlerstein saw the change, and congratulated himself on the
effect of having a town-bred bower woman; nay, spoke of the advantage it
would be to his daughter, if he could persuade himself to make the
submission to the Kaiser which the late improvements decided on at the
Diet were rendering more and more inevitable.  _Now_ how happy would be
the winner of his gentle Ermentrude!

Freiherrinn von Adlerstein thought the alteration the mere change from
child to woman, and felt insulted by the supposition that any one might
not have been proud to match with a daughter of Adlerstein, be she what
she might.  As to submission to the Kaiser, that was mere folly and
weakness--kaisers, kings, dukes, and counts had broken their teeth against
the rock of Adlerstein before now!  What had come over her husband and
her son to make them cravens?

For Freiherr Eberhard was more strongly convinced than was his father of
the untenableness of their present position.  Hugh Sorel's reports of
what he heard at Ulm had shown that the league that had been discussed at
Regensburg was far more formidable than anything that had ever previously
threatened Schloss Adlerstein, and that if the Graf von Schlangenwald
joined in the coalition, there would be private malice to direct its
efforts against the Adlerstein family.  Feud-letters or challenges had
been made unlawful for ten years, and was not Adlerstein at feud with the
world?

Nor did Eberhard look on the submission with the sullen rage and grief
that his father felt in bringing himself to such a declension from the
pride of his ancestors.  What the young Baron heard up stairs was
awakening in him a sense of the poorness and narrowness of his present
life.  Ermentrude never spared him what interested her; and, partly from
her lips, partly through her appeals to her attendant, he had learnt that
life had better things to offer than independence on these bare rocks,
and that homage might open the way to higher and worthier exploits than
preying upon overturned waggons.

Dietrich of Berne and his two ancestors, whose lengthy legend Christina
could sing in a low, soft recitative, were revelations to him of what she
meant by a true knight--the lion in war, the lamb in peace; the quaint
oft-repeated portraits, and still quainter cities, of the Chronicle, with
her explanations and translations, opened his mind to aspirations for
intercourse with his fellows, for an honourable name, and for esteem in
its degree such as was paid to Sir Parzival, to Karl the Great, or to
Rodolf of Hapsburgh, once a mountain lord like himself.  Nay, as
Ermentrude said, stroking his cheek, and smoothing the flaxen beard, that
somehow had become much less rough and tangled than it used to be
Her brother believed nothing of her slow declension in strength,
ascribing all the change he saw to the bitter cold, and seeing but little
even of that alteration, though he spent many hours in her room, holding
her in his arms, amusing her, or talking to her and to Christina.  All
Christina's fear of him was gone.  As long as there was no liquor in the
house, and he was his true self, she felt him to be a kind friend, bound
to her by strong sympathy in the love and care for his sister.  She could
talk almost as freely before him as when alone with her young lady; and
as Ermentrude's religious feelings grew stronger, and were freely
expressed to him, surely his attention was not merely kindness and
patience with the sufferer.

The girl's soul ripened rapidly under the new influences during her
bodily decay; and, as the days lengthened, and the stern hold of winter
relaxed upon the mountains, Christina looked with strange admiration upon
the expression that had dawned upon the features once so vacant and dull,
and listened with the more depth of reverence to the sweet words of
faith, hope and love, because she felt that a higher, deeper teaching
than she could give must have come to mould the spirit for the new world
to which it was hastening
out of the valley, whose rich green shone smiling round the pool into
which the Debateable Ford spread.  The waterfall had burst its icy bonds,
and dashed down with redoubled voice, roaring rather than babbling.  Blue
and pink hepaticas--or, as Christina called them, liver-krauts--had pushed
up their starry heads, and had even been gathered by Sir Eberhard, and
laid on his sister's pillow.  The dark peaks of rock came out all
glistening with moisture, and the snow only retained possession of the
deep hollows and crevices, into which however its retreat was far more
graceful than when, in the city, it was trodden by horse and man, and
soiled with smoke.

Christina dreaded indeed that the roads should be open, but she could not
love the snow; it spoke to her of dreariness, savagery, and captivity,
and she watched the dwindling stripes with satisfaction, and hailed the
fall of the petty avalanches from one Eagle's Step to another as her
forefathers might have rejoiced in the defeat of the Frost giants.

But Ermentrude had a love for the white sheet that lay covering a gorge
running up from the ravine.  She watched its diminution day by day with a
fancy that she was melting away with it; and indeed it was on the very
day that a succession of drifting showers had left the sheet alone, and
separated it from the masses of white above, that it first fully dawned
upon the rest of the family that, for the little daughter of the house,
spring was only bringing languor and sinking instead of recovery.

Then it was that Sir Eberhard first really listened to her entreaty that
she might not die without a priest, and comforted her by passing his word
to her that, if--he would not say when--the time drew near, he would bring
her one of the priests who had only come from St. Ruprecht's cloister on
great days, by a sort of sufferance, to say mass at the Blessed
Friedmund's hermitage chapel.

The time was slow in coming.  Easter had passed with Ermentrude far too
ill for Christina to make the effort she had intended of going to the
church, even if she could get no escort but old Ursel--the sheet of snow
had dwindled to a mere wreath--the ford looked blue in the sunshine--the
cascade tinkled merrily down its rock--mountain primroses peeped out,
when, as Father Norbert came forth from saying his ill-attended
Pentecostal mass, and was parting with the infirm peasant hermit, a tall
figure strode up the pass, and, as the villagers fell back to make way,
stood before the startled priest, and said, in a voice choked with grief
began the astonished monk
whispered the hermit
replied Eberhard, clearing his voice with
difficulty
demanded Father Norbert
replied Eberhard, his voice thickening again
was the ready response
He stepped back into the hermit's cave, whence a stair led up to the
chapel.  The anchorite followed him, whispering
said
Norbert
said Norbert
shouted Eberhard, from his stand at the mouth of
the cave.

And, as Norbert at once appeared with the pyx and other appliances that
he had gone to fetch, the Freiherr held out his hand with an offer to
and, when the monk refused, with an inward
shudder at entrusting a sacred charge to such unhallowed hands, replied
But Father Norbert was by birth a sturdy Switzer, and thought little of
these Swabian Alps; and he climbed after his guide through the most
rugged passages of Eberhard's shortest and most perpendicular cut without
a moment's hesitation, and with agility worthy of a chamois.  The young
baron turned for a moment, when the level of the castle had been gained,
perhaps to see whether he were following, but at the same time came to a
sudden, speechless pause.

On the white masses of vapour that floated on the opposite side of the
mountain was traced a gigantic shadowy outline of a hermit, with head
bent eagerly forward, and arm outstretched.

The monk crossed himself.  Eberhard stood still for a moment, and then
said, hoarsely
then strode
on towards the postern gate, followed by Brother Norbert, a good deal
reassured both as to the genuineness of the young Baron's message and the
probable condition of the object of his journey, since the patron saint
of her race was evidently on the watch to speed her departing spirit.

Sir Eberhard led the way up the turret stairs to the open door, and the
monk entered the death-chamber.  The elder Baron sat near the fire in the
large wooden chair, half turned towards his daughter, as one who must
needs be present, but with his face buried in his hands, unable to endure
the spectacle.  Nearer was the tall form of his wife, standing near the
foot of the bed, her stern, harsh features somewhat softened by the
feelings of the moment.  Ursel waited at hand, with tears running down
her furrowed cheeks.

For such as these Father Norbert was prepared; but he little expected to
meet so pure and sweet a gaze of reverential welcome as beamed on him
from the soft, dark eyes of the little white-checked maiden who sat on
the bed, holding the sufferer in her arms.  Still less had he anticipated
the serene blessedness that sat on the wasted features of the dying girl,
and all the anguish of labouring breath.

She smiled a smile of joy, held up her hand, and thanked her brother.
Her father scarcely lifted his head, her mother made a rigid curtsey, and
with a grim look of sorrow coming over her features, laid her hand over
the old Baron's shoulder
she said
The old man rose up, and stepped towards his child.  Ermentrude held out
her arms to him, and murmured
He gathered her in his arms; he was quite past speaking;
and they only heard his heavy breathing, and one more whisper from
Ermentrude
Whether he answered or not they knew not; he only gave her repeated
kisses, and laid her down on her pillows, then rushed to the door, and
the passionate sobs of the strong man's uncontrolled nature might be
heard upon the stair.  The parting with the others was not necessarily so
complete, as they were not, like him, under censure of the Church; but
Kunigunde leant down to kiss her; and, in return to her repetition of her
entreaty for pardon, replied
But when Eberhard moved towards his sister, she turned to the priest, and
said, imploringly
pointing to
Eberhard and Christina
replied the priest; and
Ermentrude looked content as Christina moved towards the empty north
turret, where, with the door open, she was in full view, and Eberhard
followed her thither.  It was indeed fully out of earshot of the child's
faint, gasping confession.  Gravely and sadly both stood there.
Christina looked up the hillside for the snow-wreath.  The May sunshine
had dissolved it; the green pass lay sparkling without a vestige of its
white coating.  Her eyes full of tears, she pointed the spot out to
Eberhard.  He understood; but, leaning towards her, told, under his
breath, of the phantom he had seen.  Her eyes expanded with awe of the
supernatural
said Eberhard
murmured Christina, with strangled voice, scarcely able to control her
sobs.

Father Norbert came towards them.  The simple confession had been heard,
and he sought the aid of Christina in performing the last rites of the
Church
he said to her
Eberhard was not excluded during the final services by which the soul was
to be dismissed from its earthly dwelling-place.  True, he comprehended
little of their import, and nothing of the words, but he gazed meekly,
with uncovered head, and a bewildered look of sadness, while Christina
made her responses and took her part with full intelligence and deep
fervour, sorrowing indeed for the companion who had become so dear to
her, but deeply thankful for the spiritual consolation that had come at
last.  Ermentrude lay calm, and, as it were, already rapt into a higher
world, lighting up at the German portions of the service, and not wholly
devoid of comprehension of the spirit even of the Latin, as indeed she
had come to the border of the region where human tongues and languages
are no more.

She was all but gone when the rite of extreme unction was completed, and
they could only stand round her, Eberhard, Christina, Ursel, and the old
Baroness, who had returned again, watching the last flutterings of the
breath, the window thrown wide open that nothing might impede the passage
of the soul to the blue vault above.

The priest spoke the beautiful commendation
There was a faint gesture in the midst for Christina to lift her in her
arms--a sign to bend down and kiss her brow--but her last look was for her
brother, her last murmur
ERMENTRUDE VON ADLERSTEIN slept with her forefathers in the vaults of the
hermitage chapel, and Christina Sorel's work was done.

Surely it was time for her to return home, though she should be more
sorry to leave the mountain castle than she could ever have believed
possible.  She entreated her father to take her home, but she received a
sharp answer that she did not know what she was talking of: the
Schlangenwald Reitern were besetting all the roads; and moreover the Ulm
burghers had taken the capture of the Constance wine in such dudgeon that
for a retainer of Adlerstein to show himself in the streets would be an
absolute asking for the wheel.

But was there any hope for her?  Could he not take her to some nunnery
midway, and let her write to her uncle to fetch her from thence?

He swore at woman's pertinacity, but allowed at last that if the plan,
talked of by the Barons, of going to make their submission to the Emperor
at Linz, with a view to which all violence at the ford had ceased, should
hold good, it might be possible thus to drop her on their way.

With this Christina must needs content herself.  Poor child, not only had
Ermentrude's death deprived her of the sole object of her residence at
Schloss Adlerstein, but it had infinitely increased the difficulties of
her position.  No one interfered with her possession of the upper room
and its turrets; and it was only at meal times that she was obliged to
mingle with the other inhabitants, who, for the most part, absolutely
overlooked the little shrinking pale maiden but with one exception, and
that the most perplexing of all.  She had been on terms with Freiherr
Eberhard that were not so easily broken off as if she had been an old
woman of Ursel's age.  All through his sister's decline she had been his
comforter, assistant, director, living in intercourse and sympathy that
ought surely to cease when she was no longer his sister's attendant, yet
which must be more than ever missed in the full freshness of the stroke.

Even on the earliest day of bereavement, a sudden thought of Hausfrau
Johanna flashed upon Christina, and reminded her of the guard she must
keep over herself if she would return to Ulm the same modest girl whom
her aunt could acquit of all indiscretion.  Her cheeks flamed, as she sat
alone, with the very thought, and the next time she heard the well-known
tread on the stair, she fled hastily into her own turret chamber, and
shut the door.  Her heart beat fast.  She could hear Sir Eberhard moving
about the room, and listened to his heavy sigh as he threw himself into
the large chair.  Presently he called her by name, and she felt it
needful to open her door and answer, respectfully
said
Christina
he said, dragging a chair nearer the hearth
said Christina, crossing
her hands over her breast, to still her trembling heart, for she was very
sorry for his grief, but moving resolutely
and his great light eyes opened wide
said Christina
steadying her
voice with great difficulty
he said, with a wistful tone of
reproach
said Christina, very low, trembling and half choked
he cried, starting up
he added, lingering
and his voice shook
returned Christina with drooping, blushing
face
said Eberhard, leaning over the back of the chair as
if trying to begin a fresh score
cried Christina, the
tears rushing into her eyes
He stood up again, as if to move away; then paused, and, twisting his
gold chain, said
said Christina, with a strong
effort at firmness, and retreating at once through the door of the
staircase, whence she made her way to the kitchen, and with great
difficulty found an excuse for her presence there.

It had been a hard struggle with her compassion and gratitude, and, poor
little Christina felt with dismay, with something more than these.  Else
why was it that, even while principle and better sense summoned her back
to Ulm, she experienced a deadly weariness of the city-pent air, of the
grave, heavy roll of the river, nay, even of the quiet, well-regulated
household?  Why did such a marriage as she had thought her natural
destiny, with some worthy, kind-hearted brother of the guild, become so
hateful to her that she could only aspire to a convent life?  This same
burgomaster would be an estimable man, no doubt, and those around her
were ruffians, but she felt utterly contemptuous and impatient of him.
And why was the interchange of greetings, the few words at meals, worth
all the rest of the day besides to her?  Her own heart was the traitor,
and to her own sensations the poor little thing had, in spirit at least,
transgressed all Aunt Johanna's precepts against young Barons.  She wept
apart, and resolved, and prayed, cruelly ashamed of every start of joy or
pain that the sight of Eberhard cost her.  From almost the first he had
sat next her at the single table that accommodated the whole household at
meals, and the custom continued, though on some days he treated her with
sullen silence, which she blamed herself for not rejoicing in, sometimes
he spoke a few friendly words; but he observed, better than she could
have dared to expect, her test of his true knighthood, and never again
forced himself into her apartment, though now and then he came to the
door with flowers, with mountain strawberries, and once with two young
doves
he said
and he always delayed so long that she was forced to be resolute, and
shut the door on him at last.

Once, when there was to be a mass at the chapel, Hugh Sorel, between a
smile and a growl, informed his daughter that he would take her thereto.
She gladly prepared, and, bent on making herself agreeable to her father,
did not once press on him the necessity of her return to Ulm.  To her
amazement and pleasure, the young Baron was at church, and when on the
way home, he walked beside her mule, she could see no need of sending him
away.

He had been in no school of the conventionalities of life, and, when he
saw that Hugh Sorel's presence had obtained him this favour, he wistfully
asked
she answered, with fluttering breath.

She felt the more that she was right in this decision, when she
encountered her father's broad grin of surprise and diversion, at seeing
the young Baron help her to dismount.  It was a look of receiving an idea
both new, comical, and flattering, but by no means the look of a father
who would resent the indignity of attentions to his daughter from a man
whose rank formed an insuperable barrier to marriage.

The effect was a new, urgent, and most piteous entreaty, that he would
find means of sending her home.  It brought upon her the hearing put into
words what her own feelings had long shrunk from confessing to herself
said Christina, with clasped hands
Hugh Sorel was touched by this appeal, and he likewise recollected how
much it was for his own interest that his brother should be satisfied
with the care he took of his daughter.  He became convinced that the
sooner she was out of the castle the better, and at length bethought him
that, among the merchants who frequented the Midsummer Fair at the
Blessed Friedmund's Wake, a safe escort might be found to convey her back
to Ulm.

If the truth were known, Hugh Sorel was not devoid of a certain feeling
akin to contempt, both for his young master's taste, and for his
forbearance in not having pushed matters further with a being so
helpless, meek, and timid as Christina, more especially as such slackness
had not been his wont in other cases where his fancy had been caught.

But Sorel did not understand that it was not physical beauty that here
had been the attraction, though to some persons, the sweet, pensive eyes,
the delicate, pure skin, the slight, tender form, might seem to exceed in
loveliness the fully developed animal comeliness chiefly esteemed at
Adlerstein.  It was rather the strangeness of the power and purity of
this timid, fragile creature, that had struck the young noble.  With all
their brutal manners reverence for a lofty female nature had been in the
German character ever since their Velleda prophesied to them, and this
reverence in Eberhard bowed at the feet of the pure gentle maiden, so
strong yet so weak, so wistful and entreating even in her resolution,
refined as a white flower on a heap of refuse, wise and dexterous beyond
his slow and dull conception, and the first being in whom he had ever
seen piety or goodness; and likewise with a tender, loving spirit of
consolation such as he had both beheld and tasted by his sister's
deathbed.

There was almost a fear mingled with his reverence.  If he had been more
familiar with the saints, he would thus have regarded the holy virgin
martyrs, nay, even Our Lady herself; and he durst not push her so hard as
to offend her, and excite the anger or the grief that he alike dreaded.
He was wretched and forlorn without the resources he had found in his
sister's room; the new and better cravings of his higher nature had been
excited only to remain unsupplied and disappointed; and the affectionate
heart in the freshness of its sorrow yearned for the comfort that such
conversation had supplied: but the impression that had been made on him
was still such, that he knew that to use rough means of pressing his
wishes would no more lead to his real gratification than it would to
appropriate a snow-bell by crushing it in his gauntlet.

And it was on feeble little Christina, yielding in heart, though not in
will, that it depended to preserve this reverence, and return unscathed
from this castle, more perilous now than ever
MIDSUMMER-DAY arrived, and the village of Adlerstein presented a most
unusual spectacle.  The wake was the occasion of a grand fair for all the
mountain-side, and it was an understood thing that the Barons, instead of
molesting the pedlars, merchants, and others who attended it, contented
themselves with demanding a toll from every one who passed the Kohler's
hut on the one side, or the Gemsbock's Pass on the other; and this toll,
being the only coin by which they came honestly in the course of the
year, was regarded as a certainty and highly valued.  Moreover, it was
the only time that any purchases could be made, and the flotsam of the
ford did not always include all even of the few requirements of the
inmates of the castle; it was the only holiday, sacred or secular, that
ever gladdened the Eagle's Rock.

So all the inmates of the castle prepared to enjoy themselves, except the
heads of the house.  The Freiherr had never been at one of these wakes
since the first after he was excommunicated, when he had stalked round to
show his indifference to the sentence; and the Freiherrinn snarled out
such sentences of disdain towards the concourse, that it might be
supposed that she hated the sight of her kind; but Ursel had all the
household purchases to make, and the kitchen underlings were to take
turns to go and come, as indeed were the men-at-arms, who were set to
watch the toll-bars.

Christina had packed up a small bundle, for the chance of being unable to
return to the castle without missing her escort, though she hoped that
the fair might last two days, and that she should thus be enabled to
return and bring away the rest of her property.  She was more and more
resolved on going, but her heart was less and less inclined to departure.
And bitter had been her weeping through all the early light hours of the
long morning--weeping that she tried to think was all for Ermentrude; and
all, amid prayers she could scarce trust herself to offer, that the
generous, kindly nature might yet work free of these evil surroundings,
and fulfil the sister's dying wish, she should never see it; but, when
she should hear that the Debateable Ford was the Friendly Ford, then
would she know that it was the doing of the Good Baron Ebbo.  Could she
venture on telling him so?  Or were it not better that there were no
farewell?  And she wept again that he should think her ungrateful.  She
could not persuade herself to release the doves, but committed the charge
to Ursel to let them go in case she should not return.

So tear-stained was her face, that, ashamed that it should be seen, she
wrapped it closely in her hood and veil when she came down and joined her
father.  The whole scene swam in tears before her eyes when she saw the
whole green slope from the chapel covered with tents and booths, and
swarming with pedlars and mountaineers in their picturesque dresses.
Women and girls were exchanging the yarn of their winter's spinning for
bright handkerchiefs; men drove sheep, goats, or pigs to barter for
knives, spades, or weapons; others were gazing at simple shows--a dancing
bear or ape--or clustering round a Minnesinger; many even then
congregating in booths for the sale of beer.  Further up, on the flat
space of sward above the chapel, were some lay brothers, arranging for
the representation of a mystery--a kind of entertainment which Germany
owed to the English who came to the Council of Constance, and which the
monks of St. Ruprecht's hoped might infuse some religious notions into
the wild, ignorant mountaineers.

First however Christina gladly entered the church.  Crowded though it
were, it was calmer than the busy scene without.  Faded old tapestry was
decking its walls, representing apparently some subject entirely alien to
St. John or the blessed hermit; Christina rather thought it was Mars and
Venus, but that was all the same to every one else.  And there was a
terrible figure of St. John, painted life-like, with a real hair-cloth
round his loins, just opposite to her, on the step of the Altar; also
poor Friedmund's bones, dressed up in a new serge amice and hood; the
stone from Nicaea was in a gilded box, ready in due time to be kissed; and
a preaching friar (not one of the monks of St. Ruprecht's) was in the
midst of a sermon, telling how St. John presided at the Council of Nicaea
till the Emperor Maximius cut off his head at the instance of
Herodius--full justice being done to the dancing--and that the blood was
sprinkled on this very stone, whereupon our Holy Father the Pope decreed
that whoever would kiss the said stone, and repeat the Credo five times
afterwards, should be capable of receiving an indulgence for 500 years:
which indulgence must however be purchased at the rate of six groschen,
to be bestowed in alms at Rome.  And this inestimable benefit he, poor
Friar Peter, had come from his brotherhood of St. Francis at Offingen
solely to dispense to the poor mountaineers.

It was disappointing to find this profane mummery going on instead of the
holy services to which Christina had looked forward for strength and
comfort; she was far too well instructed not to be scandalized at the
profane deception which was ripening fast for Luther, only thirty years
later; and, when the stone was held up by the friar in one hand, the
printed briefs of indulgence in the other, she shrunk back.  Her father
however said
she whispered
quoth Hugh
And he went forward, and invested six groschen in one of the papers, the
most religious action poor Christina had ever seen him perform.  Other
purchasers came forward--several, of the castle _knappen_, and a few
peasant women who offered yarn or cheeses as equivalents for money, but
were told with some insolence to go and sell their goods, and bring the
coin.

After a time, the friar, finding his traffic slack, thought fit to
remove, with his two lay assistants, outside the chapel, and try the
effects of an out-of-door sermon.  Hugh Sorel, who had been hitherto
rather diverted by the man's gestures and persuasions, now decided on
going out into the fair in quest of an escort for his daughter, but as
she saw Father Norbert and another monk ascending from the stairs leading
to the hermit's cell, she begged to be allowed to remain in the church,
where she was sure to be safe, instead of wandering about with him in the
fair.

He was glad to be unencumbered, though he thought her taste unnatural;
and, promising to return for her when he had found an escort, he left
her.

Father Norbert had come for the very purpose of hearing confessions, and
Christina's next hour was the most comfortable she had spent since
Ermentrude's death.

After this however the priests were called away, and long, long did
Christina first kneel and then sit in the little lonely church, hearing
the various sounds without, and imagining that her father had forgotten
her, and that he and all the rest were drinking, and then what would
become of her?  Why had she quitted old Ursel's protection?

Hours of waiting and nameless alarm must have passed, for the sun was
waxing low, when at length she heard steps coming up the hermit's cell,
and a head rose above the pavement which she recognized with a wild throb
of joy, but, repressing her sense of gladness, she only exclaimed
replied Sir
Eberhard, who had by this time come up the stairs, followed by Brother
Peter and the two lay assistants.  Then, as Christina turned on him her
startled, terrified eyes in dismay and reproach for such thoughtlessness,
he came towards her, and, bending his head and opening his hand, he
showed on his palm two gold rings
he said
Her senses grew dizzy
she faintly said
returned Sir Eberhard, with all the
settled resolution of habits of command
as he saw her irrepressible
tears
she gasped with a sob
he said, as he saw how little those words served his cause
implored Christina
replied Eberhard, who, all
along, even while his words were most pleading, had worn a look and
manner of determined authority and strength, good-natured indeed, but
resolved
The friar, who had meantime been making a few needful arrangements for
the ceremony, advanced towards them.  He was a good-humoured, easy-going
man, who came prepared to do any office that came in his way on such
festival days at the villages round; and peasant marriages at such times
were not uncommon.  But something now staggered him, and he said
anxiously
said Eberhard
said the
friar, still suspiciously
replied Eberhard
This was the time if ever to struggle against her destiny.  The friar
would probably have listened to her if she had made any vehement
opposition to a forced marriage, and if not, a few shrieks would have
brought perhaps Father Norbert, and certainly the whole population; but
the horror and shame of being found in such a situation, even more than
the probability that she might meet with vengeance rather than
protection, withheld her.  Even the friar could hardly have removed her,
and this was her only chance of safety from the Baroness's fury.  Had she
hated and loathed Sir Eberhard, perhaps she had striven harder, but his
whole demeanour constrained and quelled her, and the chief effort she
made against yielding was the reply
The "but" was lost in the friar's jovial speech
as Eberhard quietly drew the bolt
within
This morning, but--" said Christina, and
to her great
joy, said Eberhard, and, in her satisfaction thereat, her second "but"
was not followed up.

The friar asked their names, and both gave the Christian name alone; then
the brief and simple rite was solemnized in its shortest form.  Christina
had, by very force of surprise and dismay, gone through all without signs
of agitation, except the quivering of her whole frame, and the icy
coldness of the hand, where Eberhard had to place the ring on each finger
in turn.

But each mutual vow was a strange relief to her long-tossed and divided
mind, and it was rest indeed to let her affection have its will, and own
him indeed as a protector to be loved instead of shunned.  When all was
over, and he gathered the two little cold hands into his large one, his
arm supporting her trembling form, she felt for the moment, poor little
thing, as if she could never be frightened again.

Parish registers were not, even had this been a parish church, but
Brother Peter asked, when he had concluded
was the stern reply
said the friar, somewhat
dismayed, but more amused, looking up at Eberhard, who, as Christina now
saw, had divested himself of his gilt spurs, gold chain, silvered belt
and horn, and eagle's plume, so as to have passed for a simple
lanzknecht
said Eberhard coolly
laughed the friar, changing his tone, and
holding up his finger slyly
Eberhard looked into Christina's face with a smile, that to her, at
least, was answer enough; and he held out half a dozen links of his gold
chain to the friar, and tossed a coin to each of the lay brethren
explained Brother Peter, on receiving
this marriage fee
said Eberhard
said the priest
Christina tried to
murmur, but at that moment a sudden glow and glare of light broke out on
the eastern rock, illuminating the fast darkening little church with a
flickering glare, that made her start in terror as if the fires of heaven
were threatening this stolen marriage; but the friar and Eberhard both
exclaimed
And she recollected how often
she had seen these bonfires on Midsummer night shining red on every hill
around Ulm.  Loud shouts were greeting the uprising flame, and the people
gathering thicker and thicker on the slope.  The friar undid the door to
hasten out into the throng, and Eberhard said he had left his spurs and
belt in the hermit's cell, and must return thither, after which he would
walk home with his bride, moving at the same time towards the stair, and
thereby causing a sudden scuffle and fall
quoth
Eberhard, as the old man picked himself up, looking horribly frightened
But it soon appeared that to depart was impossible, unless by forcing a
way through the busy throng in the full red glare of the firelight, and
they were forced to pause at the opening of the hermit's cave, Christina
leaning on her husband's arm, and a fold of his mantle drawn round her to
guard her from the night-breeze of the mountain, as they waited for a
quiet space in which to depart unnoticed.  It was a strange, wild scene!
The fire was on a bare, flat rock, which probably had been yearly so
employed ever since the Kelts had brought from the East the rite that
they had handed on to the Swabians--the Beltane fire, whose like was
blazing everywhere in the Alps, in the Hartz, nay, even in England,
Scotland, and on the granite points of Ireland.  Heaped up for many
previous days with faggots from the forest, then apparently
inexhaustible, the fire roared and crackled, and rose high, red and
smoky, into the air, paling the moon, and obscuring the stars.  Round it,
completely hiding the bonfire itself, were hosts of dark figures swarming
to approach it--all with a purpose.  All held old shoes or superannuated
garments in their hands to feed the flame; for it was esteemed needful
that every villager should contribute something from his house--once, no
doubt, as an offering to Bel, but now as a mere unmeaning observance.
And shrieks of merriment followed the contribution of each too well-known
article of rubbish that had been in reserve for the Needfire!  Girls and
boys had nuts to throw in, in pairs, to judge by their bounces of future
chances of matrimony.  Then came a shouting, tittering, and falling back,
as an old boor came forward like a priest with something heavy and
ghastly in his arms, which was thrown on with a tremendous shout,
darkened the glow for a moment, then hissed, cracked, and emitted a
horrible odour.

It was a horse's head, the right owner of which had been carefully kept
for the occasion, though long past work.  Christina shuddered, and felt
as if she had fallen upon a Pagan ceremony; as indeed was true enough,
only that the Adlersteiners attached no meaning to the performance,
except a vague notion of securing good luck.

With the same idea the faggots were pulled down, and arranged so as to
form a sort of lane of fire.  Young men rushed along it, and then bounded
over the diminished pile, amid loud shouts of laughter and either
admiration or derision; and, in the meantime, a variety of odd, recusant
noises, grunts, squeaks, and lowings proceeding from the darkness were
explained to the startled little bride by her husband to come from all
the cattle of the mountain farms around, who were to have their weal
secured by being driven through the Needfire.

It may well be imagined that the animals were less convinced of the
necessity of this performance than their masters.  Wonderful was the
clatter and confusion, horrible the uproar raised behind to make the poor
things proceed at all, desperate the shout when some half-frantic
creature kicked or attempted a charge wild the glee when a persecuted
goat or sheep took heart of grace, and flashed for one moment between the
crackling, flaring, smoking walls.  When one cow or sheep off a farm
went, all the others were pretty sure to follow it, and the owner had
then only to be on the watch at the other end to turn them back, with
their flame-dazzled eyes, from going unawares down the precipice, a fate
from which the passing through the fire was evidently not supposed to
ensure them.  The swine, those special German delights, were of course
the most refractory of all.  Some, by dint of being pulled away from the
lane of fire, were induced to rush through it; but about half-way they
generally made a bolt, either sidelong through the flaming fence or
backwards among the legs of their persecutors, who were upset amid loud
imprecations.  One huge, old, lean, high-backed sow, with a large family,
truly feminine in her want of presence of mind, actually charged into the
midst of the bonfire itself, scattering it to the right and left with her
snout, and emitting so horrible a smell of singed bacon, that it might
almost be feared that some of her progeny were anticipating the invention
of Chinese roasting-pigs.  However, their proprietor, Jobst, counted them
out all safe on the other side, and there only resulted some sighs and
lamentations among the seniors, such as Hatto and Ursel, that it boded
ill to have the Needfire trodden out by an old sow.

All the castle live-stock were undergoing the same ceremony.  Eberhard
concerned himself little about the vagaries of the sheep and pigs, and
only laughed a little as the great black goat, who had seen several
Midsummer nights, and stood on his guard, made a sudden short run and
butted down old Hatto, then skipped off like a chamois into the darkness,
unheeding, the old rogue, the whispers that connected his unlucky hue
with the doings of the Walpurgisnacht.  But when it came to the horses,
Eberhard could not well endure the sight of the endeavours to force them,
snorting, rearing, and struggling, through anything so abhorrent to them
as the hedge of fire.

The Schneiderlein, with all the force of his powerful arm, had hold of
Eberhard's own young white mare, who, with ears turned back, nostrils
dilated, and wild eyes, her fore-feet firmly planted wide apart, was
using her whole strength for resistance; and, when a heavy blow fell on
her, only plunged backwards, and kicked without advancing.  It was more
than Eberhard could endure, and Christina's impulse was to murmur
but this he scarcely heard, as he exclaimed
and, as he stepped forward, sent his voice before him,
forbidding all blows to the mare.

The creature's extreme terror ceased at once upon hearing his voice, and
there was an instant relaxation of all violence of resistance as he came
up to her, took her halter from the Schneiderlein, patted her glossy
neck, and spoke to her.  But the tumult of warning voices around him
assured him that it would be a fatal thing to spare the steed the passage
through the fire, and he strove by encouragements and caresses with voice
and hand to get her forward, leading her himself; but the poor beast
trembled so violently, and, though making a few steps forward, stopped
again in such exceeding horror of the flame, that Eberhard had not the
heart to compel her, turned her head away, and assured her that she
should not be further tormented
said public opinion, by the voice of
old Bauer Ulrich, the sacrificer of the horse's head
And the buzz of voices concurred in telling of the recusant pigs who had
never developed into sausages, the sheep who had only escaped to be eaten
by wolves, the mule whose bones had been found at the bottom of an abyss.

Old Ursel was seriously concerned, and would have laid hold on her young
master to remonstrate, but a fresh notion had arisen--Would the gracious
Freiherr set a-rolling the wheel, which was already being lighted in the
fire, and was to conclude the festivities by being propelled down the
hill--figuring, only that no one present knew it, the sun's declension
from his solstitial height?  Eberhard made no objection; and Christina,
in her shelter by the cave, felt no little dismay at being left alone
there, and moreover had a strange, weird feeling at the wild, uncanny
ceremony he was engaged in, not knowing indeed that it was sun-worship,
but afraid that it could be no other than unholy sorcery.

The wheel, flaring or reddening in all its spokes, was raised from the
bonfire, and was driven down the smoothest piece of green sward, which
formed an inclined plane towards the stream.  If its course was smooth,
and it only became extinguished by leaping into the water, the village
would flourish; and prosperity above all was expected if it should spring
over the narrow channel, and attempt to run up the other side.  Such
things had happened in the days of the good Freiherren Ebbo and Friedel,
though the wheel had never gone right since the present baron had been
excommunicated; but his heir having been twice seen at mass in this last
month great hopes were founded upon him.

There was a shout to clear the slope.  Eberhard, in great earnest and
some anxiety, accepted the gauntlet that he was offered to protect his
hand, steadied the wheel therewith, and, with a vigorous impulse from
hand and foot, sent it bounding down the slope, among loud cries and a
general scattering of the idlers who had crowded full into the very path
of the fiery circle, which flamed up brilliantly for the moment as it met
the current of air.  But either there was an obstacle in the way, or the
young Baron's push had not been quite straight: the wheel suddenly
swerved aside, its course swerved to the right, maugre all the
objurgations addressed to it as if it had been a living thing, and the
next moment it had disappeared, all but a smoky, smouldering spot of red,
that told where it lay, charring and smoking on its side, without having
fulfilled a quarter of its course.

People drew off gravely and silently, and Eberhard himself was strangely
discomfited when he came back to the hermitage, and, wrapping Christina
in his cloak, prepared to return, so soon as the glare of the fire should
have faded from his eyesight enough to make it safe to tread so
precipitous a path.  He had indeed this day made a dangerous venture, and
both he and Christina could not but feel disheartened by the issue of all
the omens of the year, the more because she had a vague sense of wrong in
consulting or trusting them.  It seemed to her all one frightened,
uncomprehended dream ever since her father had left her in the chapel;
and, though conscious of her inability to have prevented her marriage,
yet she blamed herself, felt despairing as she thought of the future,
and, above all, dreaded the Baron and the Baroness and their anger.
Eberhard, after his first few words, was silent, and seemed solely
absorbed in leading her safely along the rocky path, sometimes lifting
her when he thought her in danger of stumbling.  It was one of the
lightest, shortest nights of the year, and a young moon added to the
brightness in open places, while in others it made the rocks and stones
cast strange elvish shadows.  The distance was not entirely lost; other
Beltane fires could be seen, like beacons, on every hill, and the few
lights in the castle shone out like red fiery eyes in its heavy dark pile
of building.

Before entering, Eberhard paused, pulled off his own wedding-ring, and
put it into his bosom, and taking his bride's hand in his, did the same
for her, and bade her keep the ring till they could wear them openly
said Christina
said Eberhard
sighed the poor little wife
said Eberhard
Poor Christina had no choice but submission; but it was a sorry bridal
evening, to enter her husband's home in shrinking terror; with the threat
of the oubliette before her, and with a sense of shame and deception
hanging upon her, making the wonted scowl of the old baroness cut her
both with remorse and dread.

She did indeed sit beside her bridegroom at the supper, but how little
like a bride! even though he pushed the salt-cellar, as if by accident,
below her place.  She thought of her myrtle, tended in vain at home by
Barbara Schmidt; she thought of Ulm courtships, and how all ought to have
been; the solemn embassage to her uncle, the stately negotiations; the
troth plight before the circle of ceremonious kindred and merry maidens,
of whom she had often been one--the subsequent attentions of the betrothed
on all festival days, the piles of linen and all plenishings accumulated
since babyhood, and all reviewed and laid out for general admiration (Ah!
poor Aunt Johanna still spinning away to add to the many webs in her
walnut presses!)--then the grand procession to fetch home the bride, the
splendid festival with the musicians, dishes, and guest-tables to the
utmost limit that was allowed by the city laws, and the bride's hair so
joyously covered by her matron's curch amid the merriment of her
companion maidens.

Poor child!  After she had crept away to her own room, glad that her
father was not yet returned, she wept bitterly over the wrong that she
felt she had done to the kind uncle and aunt, who must now look in vain
for their little Christina, and would think her lost to them, and to all
else that was good.  At least she had had the Church's blessing--but that,
strange to say, was regarded, in burgher life before the Reformation, as
rather the ornament of a noble marriage than as essential to the civil
contract; and a marriage by a priest was regarded by the citizens rather
as a means of eluding the need of obtaining the parent's consent, than as
a more regular and devout manner of wedding.  However, Christina felt
this the one drop of peace.  The blessings and prayers were warm at her
heart, and gave her hope.  And as to drops of joy, of them there was no
lack, for had not she now a right to love Eberhard with all her heart and
conscience, and was not it a wonderful love on his part that had made him
stoop to the little white-faced burgher maid, despised even by her own
father?  O better far to wear the maiden's uncovered head for him than
the myrtle wreath for any one else
THE poor little unowned bride had more to undergo than her imagination
had conceived at the first moment.

When she heard that the marriage was to be a secret, she had not
understood that Eberhard was by no means disposed to observe much more
caution than mere silence.  A rough, though kindly man, he did not
thoroughly comprehend the shame and confusion that he was bringing upon
her by departing from his former demeanour.  He knew that, so enormous
was the distance then supposed to exist between the noble and the
burgher, there was no chance of any one dreaming of the true state of the
case, and that as long as Christina was not taken for his wife, there was
no personal danger for her from his mother, who--so lax were the morals of
the German nobility with regard to all of inferior rank--would tolerate
her with complacency as his favourite toy; and he was taken by surprise
at the agony of grief and shame with which she slowly comprehended his
assurance that she had nothing to fear.

There was no help for it.  The oubliette would probably be the portion of
the low-born girl who had interfered with the sixteen quarterings of the
Adlerstein shield, and poor Christina never stepped across its trap-door
without a shudder lest it should open beneath her.  And her father would
probably have been hung from the highest tower, in spite of his shrewd
care to be aware of nothing.  Christina consoled herself with the hope
that he knew all the time why he had been sent out of the way, for, with
a broad grin that had made her blush painfully, he had said he knew she
would be well taken care of, and that he hoped she was not breaking her
heart for want of an escort.  She tried to extort Eberhard's permission
to let him at least know how it was; but Eberhard laughed, saying he
believed the old fox knew just as much as he chose; and, in effect,
Sorel, though now and then gratifying his daughter's scruples, by serving
as a shield to her meetings with the young Baron, never allowed himself
to hear a hint of the true state of affairs.

Eberhard's love and reverence were undiminished, and the time spent with
him would have been perfectly happy could she ever have divested herself
of anxiety and alarm; but the periods of his absence from the castle were
very terrible to her, for the other women of the household, quick to
perceive that she no longer repelled him, had lost that awe that had
hitherto kept them at a distance from her, and treated her with a
familiarity, sometimes coarse, sometimes spiteful, always hateful and
degrading.  Even old Ursel had become half-pitying, half-patronizing; and
the old Baroness, though not molesting her, took not the slightest notice
of her.

This state of things lasted much longer than there had been reason to
expect at the time of the marriage.  The two Freiherren then intended to
set out in a very short time to make their long talked-of submission to
the Emperor at Ratisbon; but, partly from their German tardiness of
movement, partly from the obstinate delays interposed by the proud old
Freiherrinn, who was as averse as ever to the measure, partly from
reports that the Court was not yet arrived at Ratisbon, the expedition
was again and again deferred, and did not actually take place till
September was far advanced.

Poor Christina would have given worlds to go with them, and even
entreated to be sent to Ulm with an avowal of her marriage to her uncle
and aunt, but of this Eberhard would not hear.  He said the Ulmers would
thus gain an hostage, and hamper his movements; and, if her wedding was
not to be confessed--poor child!--she could better bear to remain where she
was than to face Hausfrau Johanna.  Eberhard was fully determined to
enrol himself in some troop, either Imperial, or, if not, among the Free
Companies, among whom men of rank were often found, and he would then
fetch or send for his wife and avow her openly, so soon as she should be
out of his mother's reach.  He longed to leave her father at home, to be
some protection to her, but Hugh Sorel was so much the most intelligent
and skilful of the retainers as to be absolutely indispensable to the
party--he was their only scribe; and moreover his new suit of buff
rendered him a creditable member of a troop that had been very hard to
equip.  It numbered about ten men-at-arms, only three being left at home
to garrison the castle--namely, Hatto, who was too old to take; Hans, who
had been hopelessly lame and deformed since the old Baron had knocked him
off a cliff in a passion; and Squinting Matz, a runaway servant, who had
murdered his master, the mayor of Strasburg, and might be caught and put
to death if any one recognized him.  If needful the villagers could
always be called in to defend the castle: but of this there was little or
no danger--the Eagle's Steps were defence enough in themselves, and the
party were not likely to be absent more than a week or ten days--a
grievous length of time, poor Christina thought, as she stood straining
her eyes on the top of the watch-tower, to watch them as far as possible
along the plain.  Her heart was very sad, and the omen of the burning
wheel so continually haunted her that even in her sleep that night she
saw its brief course repeated, beheld its rapid fall and extinction, and
then tracked the course of the sparks that darted from it, one rising and
gleaming high in air till it shone like a star, another pursuing a fitful
and irregular, but still bright course amid the dry grass on the
hillside, just as she had indeed watched some of the sparks on that
night, minding her of the words of the Allhallow-tide legend
a sentence which
remained with her when awake, and led her to seek it out in her Latin
Bible in the morning.

Reluctantly had she gone down to the noontide meal, feeling, though her
husband and father were far less of guardians than they should have been,
yet that there was absolute rest, peace, and protection in their presence
compared with what it was to be alone with Freiherrinn Kunigunde and her
rude women without them.  A few sneers on her daintiness and uselessness
had led her to make an offer of assisting in the grand chopping of
sausage meat and preparation of winter stores, and she had been answered
with contempt that my young lord would not have her soil her delicate
hands, when one of the maids who had been sent to fetch beer from the
cellar came back with startled looks, and the exclamation
All the women sprang up together, and rushed to the window, whence they
could indeed recognize both man and horse; and presently it became plain
that both were stained with blood, weary, and spent; indeed, nothing but
extreme exhaustion would have induced the man-at-arms to trust the tired,
stumbling horse up such a perilous path.

Loud were the exclamations
The angry and dismayed cries all blended themselves in confusion in the
ears of the only silent woman present; the only one that sounded
distinctly on her brain was that of the last speaker
as, holding herself a little in the rear of the struggling,
jostling little mob of women, who hardly made way even for their
acknowledged lady, she followed with failing limbs the universal rush to
the entrance as soon as man and horse had mounted the slope and were lost
sight of.

A few moments more, and the throng of expectants was at the foot of the
hall steps, just as the lanzknecht reached the arched entrance.  His
comrade Hans took his bridle, and almost lifted him from his horse; he
reeled and stumbled as, pale, battered, and bleeding, he tried to advance
to Freiherinn Kunigunde, and, in answer to her hasty interrogation,
faltered out
Christina scarce heard even these last words; senses and powers alike
failed her, and she sank back on the stone steps in a deathlike swoon.

When she came to herself she was lying on her bed, Ursel and Else,
another of the women, busy over her, and Ursel's voice was saying
faintly cried Christina with sobbing breath
said the old woman
and she lifted up
Christina's powerless, bloodless hand, and showed her the ring on the
finger.  Her bosom had been evidently searched when her dress was
loosened in her swoon, and her ring found and put in its place
and the old woman's burst of
tears brought back the truth to Christina's reviving senses
she said, trying to raise herself
lamented Ursel
Christina did not break out into the wailing and weeping that the old
nurse expected; she was still far too much stunned and overwhelmed, and
she entreated to be told all, lying still, but gazing at Ursel with
piteous bewildered eyes.  Ursel and Else helping one another out, tried
to tell her, but they were much confused; all they knew was that the
party had been surprised at night in a village hostel by the
Schlangenwaldern, and all slain, though the young Baron had lived long
enough to charge the Schneiderlein with his commendation of his wife to
his mother; but all particulars had been lost in the general confusion
implored Christina, by this time able
to rise and cross the room to the large carved chair; and Ursel
immediately turned to her underling, saying
Else's wooden shoes clattered down stairs, but the next moment she
returned
said Christina, and, revived by the sense of being
wanted, she moved at once to the turret, where she kept some rag and some
ointment, which she had found needful in the latter stages of
Ermentrude's illness--indeed, household surgery was a part of regular
female education, and Christina had had plenty of practice in helping her
charitable aunt, so that the superiority of her skill to that of Ursel
had long been avowed in the castle.  Ursel made no objection further than
to look for something that could be at once converted into a widow's
veil--being in the midst of her grief quite alive to the need that no
matronly badge should be omitted--but nothing came to hand in time, and
Christina was descending the stairs, on her way to the kitchen, where she
found the fugitive man-at-arms seated on a rough settle, his head and
wounded arm resting on the table, while groans of pain, weariness, and
impatience were interspersed with imprecations on the stupid awkward
girls who surrounded him.

Pity and the instinct of affording relief must needs take the precedence
even of the desire to hear of her husband's fate; and, as the girls
hastily whispered
and the lanzknecht hastily tried to
gather himself up, and rise with tokens of respect; she bade him remain
still, and let her see what she could do for him.  In fact, she at once
perceived that he was in no condition to give a coherent account of
anything, he was so completely worn out, and in so much suffering.  She
bade at once that some water should be heated, and some of the broth of
the dinner set on the fire; then with the shears at her girdle, and her
soft, light fingers, she removed the torn strip of cloth that had been
wound round the arm, and cut away the sleeve, showing the arm not broken,
but gashed at the shoulder, and thence the whole length grazed and
wounded by the descent of the sword down to the wrist.  So tender was her
touch, that he scarcely winced or moaned under her hand; and, when she
proceeded, with Ursel's help, to bathe the wound with the warm water, the
relief was such that the wearied man absolutely slumbered during the
process, which Christina protracted on that very account.  She then
dressed and bandaged the arm, and proceeded to skim--as no one else in the
castle would do--the basin of soup, with which she then fed her patient as
he leant back in the corner of the settle, at first in the same
somnolent, half-conscious state in which he had been ever since the
relief from the severe pain; but after a few spoonfuls the light and life
came back to his eye, and he broke out
And, before she knew what he was about, the gigantic
Schneiderlein had slid down on his knees, seized her hand, and kissed
it--the first act of homage to her rank, but most startling and
distressing to her
she faltered
was the first answer; then, as he
continued
it became plain that he meant to begin at the
beginning.  She allowed Ursel to seat her on the bench opposite to his
settle, and, leaning forward, heard his narrative like one in a dream.
There, the Schneiderlein proceeded to say, they put up for the night,
entirely unsuspicious of evil; Jacob Muller, who was known to himself, as
well as to Sorel and to the others, assuring them that the way was clear
to Ratisbon, and that he heard the Emperor was most favourably disposed
to any noble who would tender his allegiance.  Jacob's liquors were
brought out, and were still in course of being enjoyed, when the house
was suddenly surrounded by an overpowering number of the retainers of
Schlangenwald, with their Count himself at their head.  He had been
evidently resolved to prevent the timely submission of the enemies of his
race, and suddenly presenting himself before the elder Baron, had
challenged him to instantaneous battle, claiming credit to himself for
not having surprised them when asleep.  The disadvantage had been
scarcely less than if this had been the case, for the Adlersteinern were
all half-intoxicated, and far inferior in numbers--at least, on the
showing of the Schneiderlein--and a desperate fight had ended by his being
flung aside in a corner, bound fast by the ankles and wrists, the only
living prisoner, except his young lord, who, having several terrible
wounds, the worst in his chest, was left unbound.

Both lay helpless, untended, and silent, while the revel that had been so
fatal to them was renewed by their captors, who finally all sunk into a
heavy sleep.  The torches were not all spent, and the moonlight shone
into the room, when the Schneiderlein, desperate from the agony caused by
the ligature round his wounded arm, sat up and looked about him.  A knife
thrown aside by one of the drunkards lay near enough to be grasped by his
bound hands, and he had just reached it when Sir Eberhard made a sign to
him to put it into his hand, and therewith contrived to cut the rope
round both hands and feet--then pointed to the door.

There was nothing to hinder an escape; the men slept the sleep of the
drunken; but the Schneiderlein, with the rough fidelity of a retainer,
would have lingered with a hope of saving his master.  But Eberhard shook
his head, and signed again to escape; then, making him bend down close to
him, he used all his remaining power to whisper, as he pressed his sword
into the retainer's hand
These words were spoken with extreme difficulty, for the nature of the
wound made utterance nearly impossible, and each broken sentence cost a
terrible effusion of blood.  The final words brought on so choking and
fatal a gush that, said the Schneiderlein
asked Christina
Such was the narrative of the Schneiderlein, and all that was left to
Christina was the picture of her husband's dying effort to guard her, and
the haunting fancy of those long hours of speechless agony on the floor
of the hostel, and how direful must have been his fears for her.  Sad and
overcome, yet not sinking entirely while any work of comfort remained,
her heart yearned over her companion in misfortune, the mother who had
lost both husband and son; and all her fears of the dread Freiherrinn
could not prevent her from bending her steps, trembling and palpitating
as she was, towards the hall, to try whether the daughter-in-law's right
might be vouchsafed to her, of weeping with the elder sufferer.

The Freiherrinn sat by the chimney, rocking herself to and fro, and
holding consultation with Hatto.  She started as she saw Christina
approaching, and made a gesture of repulsion; but, with the feeling of
being past all terror in this desolate moment, Christina stepped nearer,
knelt, and, clasping her hands, said
returned the harsh voice, even harsher for very grief
half
laughed the grim Baroness
and Christina underwent a
series of sharp searching questions on the evidences of her marriage
ended the old lady
she added, raising her voice
said Christina, her eyes swimming in tears
And, more desolate than ever, the crushed and broken-hearted Christina, a
widow before she had been owned a wife, returned to the room that was now
so full of memories as to be even more home than Master Gottfried's
gallery at Ulm
WHO can describe the dreariness of being snowed-up all the winter with
such a mother-in-law as Freiherrinn Kunigunde?

Yet it was well that the snow came early, for it was the best defence of
the lonely castle from any attack on the part of the Schlangenwaldern,
the Swabian League, or the next heir, Freiherr Kasimir von Adlerstein
Wildschloss.  The elder Baroness had, at least, the merit of a stout
heart, and, even with her sadly-reduced garrison, feared none of them.
She had been brought up in the faith that Adlerstein was impregnable, and
so she still believed; and, if the disaster that had cut off her husband
and son was to happen at all, she was glad that it had befallen before
the homage had been paid.  Probably the Schlangenwald Count knew how
tough a morsel the castle was like to prove, and Wildschloss was serving
at a distance, for nothing was heard of either during the short interval
while the roads were still open.  During this time an attempt had been
made through Father Norbert to ascertain what had become of the corpses
of the two Barons and their followers, and it had appeared that the Count
had carried them all off from the inn, no doubt to adorn his castle with
their limbs, or to present them to the Emperor in evidence of his zeal
for order.  The old Baron could not indeed have been buried in
consecrated ground, nor have masses said for him; but for the weal of her
son's soul Dame Kunigunde gave some of her few ornaments, and Christina
added her gold earrings, and all her scanty purse, that both her husband
and father might be joined in the prayers of the Church--trying with all
her might to put confidence in Hugh Sorel's Loretto relic, and the
Indulgence he had bought, and trusting with more consolatory thoughts to
the ever stronger dawnings of good she had watched in her own Eberhard.

She had some consoling intercourse with the priest while all this was
pending; but throughout the winter she was entirely cut off from every
creature save the inmates of the castle, where, as far as the old lady
was concerned, she only existed on sufferance, and all her meekness and
gentleness could not win for her more than the barest toleration.

That Eberhard had for a few hours survived his father, and that thus the
Freiherrinn Christina was as much the Dowager Baroness as Kunigunde
herself, was often insisted on in the kitchen by Ursel, Hatto, and the
Schneiderlein, whom Christina had unconsciously rendered her most devoted
servant, not only by her daily care of his wound, but by her kind
courteous words, and by her giving him his proper name of Heinz, dropping
the absurd _nom de guerre_ of the Schneiderlein, or little tailor, which
had been originally conferred on him in allusion to the valiant
Tailorling who boasted of having killed seven flies at a blow, and had
been carried on chiefly because of the contradiction between such a title
and his huge brawny strength and fierce courage.  Poor Eberhard, with his
undaunted bravery and free reckless good-nature, a ruffian far more by
education than by nature, had been much loved by his followers.  His
widow would have reaped the benefit of that affection even if her
exceeding sweetness had not gained it on her own account; and this giant
was completely gained over to her, when, amid all her sorrow and
feebleness, she never failed to minister to his sufferings to the utmost,
while her questions about his original home, and revival of the name of
his childhood, softened him, and awoke in him better feelings.  He would
have died to serve her, and she might have headed an opposition party in
the castle, had she not been quite indifferent to all save her grief;
and, except by sitting above the salt at the empty table, she laid no
claim to any honours or authority, and was more seldom than ever seen
beyond what was now called her own room.

At last, when for the second time she was seeing the snow wreaths
dwindle, and the drops shine forth in moisture again, while the mountain
paths were set free by the might of the springtide sun, she spoke almost
for the first time with authority, as she desired Heinz to saddle her
mule, and escort her to join in the Easter mass at the Blessed
Friedmund's Chapel.  Ursel heaped up objections; but so urgent was
Christina for confession and for mass, that the old woman had not the
heart to stop her by a warning to the elder Baroness, and took the
alternative of accompanying her.  It was a glorious sparkling Easter Day,
lovely blue sky above, herbage and flowers glistening below, snow
dazzling in the hollows, peasants assembling in holiday garb, and all
rejoicing.  Even the lonely widow, in her heavy veil and black mufflings,
took hope back to her heart, and smiled when at the church door a little
child came timidly up to her with a madder-tinted Easter egg--a gift once
again like the happy home customs of Ulm.  She gave the child a kiss--she
had nothing else to give, but the sweet face sent it away strangely glad.

The festival mass in all its exultation was not fully over, when anxious
faces began to be seen at the door, and whisperings went round and many
passed out.  Nobody at Adlerstein was particular about silence in church,
and, when the service was not in progress, voices were not even lowered,
and, after many attempts on the part of the Schneiderlein to attract the
attention of his mistress, his voice immediately succeeded the _Ite missa
est_
Christina turned deadly pale.  She had long been ready to welcome death
as a peaceful friend; but, sheltered as her girlhood had been in the
quiet city, she had never been brought in contact with warfare, and her
nervous, timid temperament made the thought most appalling and frightful
to her, certain as she was that the old Baroness would resist to the
uttermost.  Father Norbert saw her extreme terror, and, with the thought
that he might comfort and support her, perhaps mediate between the
contending parties, plead that it was holy-tide, and proclaim the peace
of the church, or at the worst protect the lady herself, he offered his
company; but, though she thanked him, it was as if she scarcely
understood his kindness, and a shudder passed over her whenever the
serfs, hastily summoned to augment the garrison, came hurrying down the
path, or turned aside into the more rugged and shorter descents.  It was
strange, the good father thought, that so timorous and fragile a being
should have her lot cast amid these rugged places and scenes of violence,
with no one to give her the care and cherishing she so much required.

Even when she crept up the castle stairs, she was met with an angry
rebuke, not so much for the peril she had incurred as for having taken
away the Schneiderlein, by far the most availing among the scanty remnant
of the retainers of Adlerstein.  Attempting no answer, and not even
daring to ask from what quarter came the alarm, Christina made her way
out of the turmoil to that chamber of her own, the scene of so much fear
and sorrow, and yet of some share of peace and happiness.  But from the
window, near the fast subsiding waters of the Debateable Ford, could
plainly be seen the small troop of warriors, of whom Jobst the Kohler had
brought immediate intelligence.  The sun glistened on their armour, and a
banner floated gaily on the wind; but they were a fearful sight to the
inmates of the lonely castle.

A stout heart was however Kunigunde's best endowment; and, with the
steadiness and precision of a general, her commands rang out, as she
arranged and armed her garrison, perfectly resolved against any
submission, and confident in the strength of her castle; nay, not without
a hope of revenge either against Schlangenwald or Wildschloss, whom, as a
degenerate Adlerstein, she hated only less than the slayer of her husband
and son.

The afternoon of Easter Day however passed away without any movement on
the part of the enemy, and it was not till the following day that they
could be seen struggling through the ford, and preparing to ascend the
mountain.  Attacks had sometimes been disconcerted by posting men in the
most dangerous passes; but, in the lack of numbers, and of trustworthy
commanders, the Freiherrinn had judged it wiser to trust entirely to her
walls, and keep her whole force within them.

The new comers could hardly have had any hostile intentions, for, though
well armed and accoutred, their numbers did not exceed twenty-five.  The
banner borne at their head was an azure one, with a white eagle, and
their leader could be observed looking with amazement at the top of the
watch-tower, where the same eagle had that morning been hoisted for the
first time since the fall of the two Freiherren.

So soon as the ascent had been made, the leader wound his horn, and,
before the echoes had died away among the hills, Hatto, acting as
seneschal, was demanding his purpose
was the reply
returned Hatto
exclaimed the Wildschloss
said Hatto
sternly spoke the knight
returned Hatto
said Sir Kasimir, impatiently, not in the
least crediting the story, and believing his cousin Kunigunde quite
capable of any measure that could preserve to her the rule in Schloss
Adlerstein, even to erecting some passing love affair of her son's into a
marriage.  And he hardly did her injustice, for she had never made any
inquiry beyond the castle into the validity of Christina's espousals, nor
sought after the friar who had performed the ceremony.  She consented to
an interview with the claimant of the inheritance, and descended to the
gateway for the purpose.  The court was at its cleanest, the thawing snow
having newly washed away its impurities, and her proud figure, under her
black hood and veil, made an imposing appearance as she stood tall and
defiant in the archway.

Sir Kasimir was a handsome man of about thirty, of partly Polish descent,
and endowed with Slavonic grace and courtesy, and he had likewise been
employed in negotiations with Burgundy, and had acquired much polish and
knowledge of the world
he said
composedly replied Kunigunde
exclaimed Wildschloss
said Kunigunde proudly
inquired Sir Kasimir
replied
the Baroness
He bore emphatic testimony to poor Eberhard's last words; but as to the
point of who had performed the ceremony, he knew not,--his mind had not
retained the name
said Wildschloss, feeling certain that
such a being as he expected in a daughter of the dissolute lanzknecht
Sorel would soon, by dexterous questioning, be made to expose the
futility of her pretensions so flagrantly that even Kunigunde could not
attempt to maintain them.

For one moment Kunigunde hesitated, but suddenly a look of malignant
satisfaction crossed her face.  She spoke a few words to Squinting Matz,
and then replied that Sir Kasimir should be allowed to satisfy himself,
but that she could admit no one else into the castle; hers was a widow's
household, the twins were only a few hours old, and she could not open
her gates to admit any person besides himself.

So resolved on judging for himself was Adlerstein Wildschloss that all
this did not stagger him; for, even if he had believed more than he did
of the old lady's story, there would have been no sense of intrusion or
impropriety in such a visit to the mother.  Indeed, had Christina been
living in the civilized world, her chamber would have been hung with
black cloth, black velvet would have enveloped her up to the eyes, and
the blackest of cradles would have stood ready for her fatherless babe;
two steps, in honour of her baronial rank, would have led to her bed, and
a beaufet with the due baronial amount of gold and silver plate would
have held the comfits and caudle to be dispensed to all visitors.  As it
was, the two steps built into the floor of the room, and the black hood
that Ursel tied over her young mistress's head, were the only traces that
such etiquette had ever been heard of.

But when Baron Kasimir had clanked up the turret stairs, each step
bringing to her many a memory of him who should have been there, and when
he had been led to the bedside, he was completely taken by surprise.

Instead of the great, flat-faced, coarse comeliness of a German wench,
treated as a lady in order to deceive him, he saw a delicate, lily-like
face, white as ivory, and the soft, sweet brown eyes under their drooping
lashes, so full of innocence and sad though thankful content, that he
felt as if the inquiries he came to make were almost sacrilege.

He had seen enough of the world to know that no agent in a clumsy
imposition would look like this pure white creature, with her arm
encircling the two little swaddled babes, whose red faces and bald heads
alone were allowed to appear above their mummy-like wrappings; and he
could only make an obeisance lower and infinitely more respectful than
that with which he had favoured the Baroness _nee_ von Adlerstein, with a
few words of inquiry and apology.

But Christina had her sons' rights to defend now, and she had far more
spirit to do so than ever she had had in securing her own position, and a
delicate rose tint came into her cheek as she said in her soft voice
replied Sir Kasimir
replied Christina, with her blush deepening
and her soft eyes had a gleam of exultation, as she
looked at the two little mummies that made up the _us_
he added, looking at the two absolutely undistinguishable
little chrysalises, so exactly alike that Christina herself was obliged
to look for the black ribbon, on which a medal had been hung, round the
neck of the elder.  Sir Kasimir put one knee to the ground as he kissed
the red cheek of the infant and the white hand of the mother
he said to Kunigunde, who had stood by all this time with
an anxious, uneasy, scowling expression on her face
returned the elder lady, severely, seeing Christina's
gratified, imploring face
And Kunigunde looked defiant, regarding herself and her grandson as quite
as good as the Emperor, and ready to blast her daughter-in-law with her
eyes for murmuring gratefully and wistfully
said Sir
Kasimir, the more drawn by pitying admiration towards their mother, as he
perceived more of the grandmother's haughty repulsiveness and want of
comprehension of the dangers of her position
Christina's face was all joy and gratitude, and even the grandmother made
no objection; in fact, it was the babes' only chance of a noble sponsor;
and Father Norbert, who had already been making ready for the baptism,
was sent for from the hall.  Kunigunde, meantime, moved about restlessly,
went half-way down the stairs, and held council with some one there;
Ursel likewise, bustled about, and Sir Kasimir remained seated on the
chair that had been placed for him near Christina's bed.

She was able again to thank him, and add
said Sir Kasimir
he added, lowering his tone
said Christina sighing
she added, fervently, holding
out her hand
said the knight
cried Christina, her eyes brightening
Sir Kasimir repeated the name
she said
said Kasimir
exclaimed Christina
she added
As she promised, Ursel came to make the babes ready for their baptism,
and Sir Kasimir moved away towards the window.  Ursel was looking uneasy
and dismayed, and, as she bent over her mistress, she whispered
This was Frau Kunigunde's usage of the relative who was
doing his best for the welfare of her grandsons!  Christina's whole
countenance looked so frozen with horror, that Ursel felt as if she had
killed her on the spot; but the next moment a flash of relief came over
the pale features, and the trembling lip commanded itself to say
And her
terrified earnest eyes impelled Ursel to hasten to do her bidding; but
whether it had been executed, there was no knowing, for almost
immediately the Freiherrinn and Father Norbert entered, and Ursel
returned with them.  Nay, the message given, who could tell if Heinz
would be able to act upon it?  In the ordinary condition of the castle,
he was indeed its most efficient inmate; Matz did not approach him in
strength, Hans was a cripple, Hatto would be on the right side; but Jobst
the Kohler, and the other serfs who had been called in for the defence,
were more likely to hold with the elder than the younger lady.  And Frau
Kunigunde herself, knowing well that the five-and-twenty men outside
would be incompetent to avenge their master, confident in her
narrow-minded, ignorant pride that no one could take Schloss Adlerstein,
and incapable of understanding the changes in society that were rendering
her isolated condition untenable, was certain to scout any representation
of the dire consequences that the crime would entail.  Kasimir had no
near kindred, and private revenge was the only justice the Baroness
believed in; she only saw in her crime the satisfaction of an old feud,
and the union of the Wildschloss property with the parent stem.

Seldom could such a christening have taken place as that of which
Christina's bed-room was the scene--the mother scarcely able even to think
of the holy sacrament for the horror of knowing that the one sponsor was
already exulting in the speedy destruction of the other; and, poor little
feeble thing, rallying the last remnants of her severely-tried powers to
prevent the crime at the most terrible of risks.

The elder babe received from his grandmother the hereditary name of
Eberhard, but Sir Kasimir looked at the mother inquiringly, ere he gave
the other to the priest.  Christina had well-nigh said
but,
recalling herself in time, she feebly uttered the name she had longed
after from the moment she had known that two sons had been her Easter
gift
after her beloved uncle.  But Kunigunde caught the
sound, and exclaimed
and in the word there already rang
a note of victory and revenge that made Christina's blood run cold.  Sir
Kasimir marked her trouble
he
said, kindly
Christina had almost smiled.  To her the omen was of the best.  Baron
Friedmund had been the last common ancestor of the two branches of the
family, the patron saint was so called, his wake was her wedding-day, the
sound of the word imported peace, and the good Barons Ebbo and Friedel
had ever been linked together lovingly by popular memory.  And so the
second little Baron received the name of Friedmund, and then the knight
of Wildschloss, perceiving, with consideration rare in a warrior, that
the mother looked worn out and feverish, at once prepared to kiss her
hand and take leave
she said, lifting up her head, while a
burning spot rose on either cheek
Sir Kasimir looked exceedingly amazed, as if he thought the lady's senses
taking leave of her, and Dame Kunigunde broke out into declarations that
it was absurd, and she did not know what she was talking of; but she
repeated almost with passion
Ursel, with unusual readiness of wit, signed and
whispered that the young mother must be humoured, for fear of
consequences; till the knight, in a good-natured, confused way, submitted
to receive the two little bundles in his arms, while he gave place to
Kunigunde, who hastily stepped before him in a manner that made Christina
trust that her precaution would be effectual.

The room was reeling round with her.  The agony of those few minutes was
beyond all things unspeakable.  What had seemed just before like a
certain way of saving the guest without real danger to her children, now
appeared instead the most certain destruction to all, and herself the
unnatural mother who had doomed her new-born babes for a stranger's sake.
She could not even pray; she would have shrieked to have them brought
back, but her voice was dead within her, her tongue clave to the roof of
her mouth, ringings in her ears hindered her even from listening to the
descending steps.  She lay as one dead, when ten minutes afterwards the
cry of one of her babes struck on her ear, and the next moment Ursel
stood beside her, laying them down close to her, and saying exultingly
CHRISTINA'S mental and bodily constitution had much similarity--apparently
most delicate, tender, and timid, yet capable of a vigour, health, and
endurance that withstood shocks that might have been fatal to many
apparently stronger persons.  The events of that frightful Easter Monday
morning did indeed almost kill her; but the effects, though severe, were
not lasting; and by the time the last of Ermentrude's snow-wreath had
vanished, she was sunning her babes at the window, happier than she had
ever thought to be--above all, in the possession of both the children.  A
nurse had been captured for the little Baron from the village on the
hillside; but the woman had fretted, the child had pined, and had been
given back to his mother to save his life; and ever since both had
thriven perfectly under her sole care, so that there was very nearly joy
in that room.

Outside it, there was more bitterness than ever.  The grandmother had
softened for a few moments at the birth of the children, with
satisfaction at obtaining twice as much as she had hoped; but the
frustration of her vengeance upon Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss had
renewed all her hatred, and she had no scruple in abusing "the
burgher-woman" to the whole household for her artful desire to captivate
another nobleman.  She, no doubt, expected that degenerate fool of a
Wildschlosser to come wooing after her
It was the favourite reproach whenever she chose to vent her
fury on the mute, blushing, weeping young widow, whose glance at her
babies was her only appeal against the cruel accusation.

On Midsummer eve, Heinz the Schneiderlein, who had all day been taking
toll from the various attendants at the Friedmund Wake, came up and
knocked at the door.  He had a bundle over his shoulder and a bag in his
hand, which last he offered to her
The angry notes of Dame Kunigunde came up
entreated Christina
shouted Heinz, and, disregarding all further objurgations
from beneath, he proceeded to deposit his bundle, and explain that it had
been entrusted to him by a pedlar from Ulm, who would likewise take
charge of anything she might have to send in return, and he then ran down
just in time to prevent a domiciliary visit from the old lady.

From Ulm!  The very sound was joy; and Christina with trembling hands
unfastened the cords and stitches that secured the canvas covering,
within which lay folds on folds of linen, and in the midst a rich silver
goblet, long ago brought by her father from Italy, a few of her own
possessions, and a letter from her uncle secured with black floss silk,
with a black seal.

She kissed it with transport, but the contents were somewhat chilling by
their grave formality.  The opening address to the
conveyed to her a doubt on good Master
Gottfried's part whether she were still truly worthy of love or honour.
The slaughter at Jacob Muller's had been already known to him, and he
expressed himself as relieved, but greatly amazed, at the information he
had received from the Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss, who had visited
him at Ulm, after having verified what had been alleged at Schloss
Adlerstein by application to the friar at Offingen.

Freiherr von Adlerstein Wildschloss had further requested him to make
known that, feud-briefs having regularly passed between Schlangenwald and
Adlerstein, and the two Barons not having been within the peace of the
empire, no justice could be exacted for their deaths; yet, in
consideration of the tender age of the present heirs, the question of
forfeiture or submission should be waived till they could act for
themselves, and Schlangenwald should be withheld from injuring them so
long as no molestation was offered to travellers.  It was plain that Sir
Kasimir had well and generously done his best to protect the helpless
twins, and he sent respectful but cordial greetings to their mother.
These however were far less heeded by her than the coldness of her
uncle's letter.  She had drifted beyond the reckoning of her kindred, and
they were sending her her property and bridal linen, as if they had done
with her, and had lost their child in the robber-baron's wife.  Yet at
the end there was a touch of old times in offering a blessing, should she
still value it, and the hopes that heaven and the saints would comfort
her
Precise grammarian and scribe as was Uncle Gottfried, the lapse from the
formal _Sie_ to the familiar _Du_ went to his niece's heart.  Whenever
her little ones left her any leisure, she spent this her first
wedding-day in writing so earnest and loving a letter as, in spite of
mediaeval formality, must assure the good burgomaster that, except in
having suffered much and loved much, his little Christina was not changed
since she had left him.

No answer could be looked for till another wake-day; but, when it came,
it was full and loving, and therewith were sent a few more of her
favourite books, a girdle, and a richly-scented pair of gloves, together
with two ivory boxes of comfits, and two little purple silk, gold-edged,
straight, narrow garments and tight round brimless lace caps, for the two
little Barons.  Nor did henceforth a wake-day pass by without bringing
some such token, not only delightful as gratifying Christina's affection
by the kindness that suggested them, but supplying absolute wants in the
dire stress of poverty at Schloss Adlerstein.

Christina durst not tell her mother-in-law of the terms on which they
were unmolested, trusting to the scantiness of the retinue, and to her
own influence with the Schneiderlein to hinder any serious violence.
Indeed, while the Count of Schlangenwald was in the neighbourhood, his
followers took care to secure all that could be captured at the
Debateable Ford, and the broken forces of Adlerstein would have been
insane had they attempted to contend with such superior numbers.  That
the castle remained unattacked was attributed by the elder Baroness to
its own merits; nor did Christina undeceive her.  They had no intercourse
with the outer world, except that once a pursuivant arrived with a formal
intimation from their kinsman, the Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss, of
his marriage with the noble Fraulein, Countess Valeska von Trautbach, and
a present of a gay dagger for each of his godsons.  Frau Kunigunde
triumphed a good deal over the notion of Christina's supposed
disappointment; but the tidings were most welcome to the younger lady,
who trusted they would put an end to all future taunts about Wildschloss.
Alas! the handle for abuse was too valuable to be relinquished.

The last silver cup the castle had possessed had to be given as a reward
to the pursuivant, and mayhap Frau Kunigunde reckoned this as another
offence of her daughter-in-law, since, had Sir Kasimir been safe in the
oubliette, the twins might have shared his broad lands on the Danube,
instead of contributing to the fees of his pursuivant.  The cup could
indeed be ill spared.  The cattle and swine, the dues of the serfs, and
the yearly toll at the wake were the sole resources of the household; and
though there was no lack of meat, milk, and black bread, sufficient
garments could scarce be come by, with all the spinning of the household,
woven by the village webster, of whose time the baronial household, by
prescriptive right, owned the lion's share.

These matters little troubled the two beings in whom Christina's heart
was wrapped up.  Though running about barefooted and bareheaded, they
were healthy, handsome, straight-limbed, noble-looking creatures, so
exactly alike, and so inseparable, that no one except herself could tell
one from the other save by the medal of Our Lady worn by the elder, and
the little cross carved by the mother for the younger; indeed, at one
time, the urchins themselves would feel for cross or medal, ere naming
themselves
or
They were tall for their age, but with
the slender make of their foreign ancestry; and, though their fair rosy
complexions were brightened by mountain mists and winds, their rapidly
darkening hair, and large liquid brown eyes, told of their Italian blood.
Their grandmother looked on their colouring as a taint, and Christina
herself had hoped to see their father's simple, kindly blue eyes revive
in his boys; but she could hardly have desired anything different from
the dancing, kindling, or earnest glances that used to flash from under
their long black lashes when they were nestling in her lap, or playing by
her knee, making music with their prattle, or listening to her answers
with faces alive with intelligence.  They scarcely left her time for
sorrow or regret.

They were never quarrelsome.  Either from the influence of her
gentleness, or from their absolute union, they could do and enjoy nothing
apart, and would as soon have thought of their right and left hands
falling out as of Ebbo and Friedel disputing.  Ebbo however was always
the right hand.  _The_ Freiherr, as he had been called from the first,
had, from the time he could sit at the table at all, been put into the
baronial chair with the eagle carved at the back; every member of the
household, from his grandmother downwards, placed him foremost, and
Friedel followed their example, at the less loss to himself, as his hand
was always in Ebbo's, and all their doings were in common.  Sometimes
however the mother doubted whether there would have been this perfect
absence of all contest had the medal of the firstborn chanced to hang
round Friedmund's neck instead of Eberhard's.  At first they were
entirely left to her.  Their grandmother heeded them little as long as
they were healthy, and evidently regarded them more as heirs of
Adlerstein than as grandchildren; but, as they grew older, she showed
anxiety lest their mother should interfere with the fierce, lawless
spirit proper to their line.

One winter day, when they were nearly six years old, Christina, spinning
at her window, had been watching them snowballing in the castle court,
smiling and applauding every large handful held up to her, every laughing
combat, every well-aimed hit, as the hardy little fellows scattered the
snow in showers round them, raising their merry fur-capped faces to the
bright eyes that
By and by they stood still; Ebbo--she knew him by the tossed head and
commanding air--was proposing what Friedel seemed to disapprove; but,
after a short discussion, Ebbo flung away from him, and went towards a
shed where was kept a wolf-cub, recently presented to the young Barons by
old Ulrich's son.  The whelp was so young as to be quite harmless, but it
was far from amiable; Friedel never willingly approached it, and the
snarling and whining replies to all advances had begun to weary and
irritate Ebbo.  He dragged it out by its chain, and, tethering it to a
post, made it a mark for his snowballs, which, kneaded hard, and
delivered with hearty good-will by his sturdy arms, made the poor little
beast yelp with pain and terror, till the more tender-hearted Friedel
threw himself on his brother to withhold him, while Matz stood by
laughing and applauding the Baron.  Seeing Ebbo shake Friedel off with
unusual petulance, and pitying the tormented animal, Christina flung a
cloak round her head and hastened down stairs, entering the court just as
the terrified whelp had made a snap at the boy, which was returned by
angry, vindictive pelting, not merely with snow, but with stones.
Friedel sprang to her crying, and her call to Ebbo made him turn, though
with fury in his face, shouting
she said
cried Ebbo, stamping on the snow, but still from habit yielding
to her hand on his shoulder
demanded the old Baroness, appearing on the scene
cried the boy
said the old lady
she added,
turning on Christina
she tried to say
And
Kunigunde laid an ungentle grasp upon Friedmund, who was clinging to his
mother, hiding his face in her gown.  He struggled against the clutch,
and would not look up or be detached
taunted the old lady
Cut to the heart, Christina took refuge in her room, and gathered her
Friedel to her bosom, as he sobbed out
he added, throwing his arms
round her neck
said Friedel, whose mind had been
much impressed by the Minnesinger's bequest to the birds
said Friedel, lifting his head from her shoulder
cried
Friedel, springing from her lap; but, ere either could reach the window,
Ebbo had vanished from the scene.  They only saw the young wolf stretched
dead on the snow, and the same moment in burst Ebbo, and flung himself on
the floor in a passion of weeping.  Stimulated by the applause of his
grandmother and of Matz, he had furiously pelted the poor animal with all
missiles that came to hand, till a blow, either from him or Matz, had
produced such a howl and struggle of agony, and then such terrible
stillness, as had gone to the young Baron's very heart, a heart as soft
as that of his father had been by nature.  Indeed, his sobs were so
piteous that his mother was relieved to hear only
and to find that he himself was unhurt; and she was scarcely
satisfied of this when Dame Kunigunde came up also alarmed, and thus
turned his grief to wrath
he said
with a fresh
sob
exclaimed his mother
screamed the old lady
replied Ebbo
Alone with them his pride and passion were gone; but alas! what augury
for the future of her boys was left with the mother
that all the serfs of Adlerstein were collected to collect their lady's
hay to be stored for the winter's fodder of the goats, and of poor Sir
Eberhard's old white mare, the only steed as yet ridden by the young
Barons.

The boys were fourteen years old.  So monotonous was their mother's life
that it was chiefly their growth that marked the length of her residence
in the castle.  Otherwise there had been no change, except that the elder
Baroness was more feeble in her limbs, and still more irritable and
excitable in temper.  There were no events, save a few hunting adventures
of the boys, or the yearly correspondence with Ulm; and the same life
continued, of shrinking in dread from the old lady's tyrannous dislike,
and of the constant endeavour to infuse better principles into the boys,
without the open opposition for which there was neither power nor
strength.

The boys' love was entirely given to their mother.  Far from diminishing
with their dependence on her, it increased with the sense of protection;
and, now that they were taller than herself, she seemed to be cherished
by them more than ever.  Moreover, she was their oracle.  Quick-witted
and active-minded, loving books the more because their grandmother
thought signing a feud-letter the utmost literary effort becoming to a
noble, they never rested till they had acquired all that their mother
could teach them; or, rather, they then became more restless than ever.
Long ago had her whole store of tales and ballads become so familiar, by
repetition, that the boys could correct her in the smallest variation;
reading and writing were mastered as for pleasure; and the Nuremberg
Chronicle, with its wonderful woodcuts, excited such a passion of
curiosity that they must needs conquer its Latin and read it for
themselves.  This _World History_, with _Alexander and the Nine
Worthies_, the cities and landscapes, and the oft-repeated portraits, was
Eberhard's study; but Friedmund continued--constant to Walther of
Vogelweide.  Eberhard cared for no character in the Vulgate so much as
for Judas the Maccabee; but Friedmund's heart was all for King David; and
to both lads, shut up from companionship as they were, every acquaintance
in their books was a living being whose like they fancied might be met
beyond their mountain.  And, when they should go forth, like Dietrich of
Berne, in search of adventures, doughty deeds were chiefly to fall to the
lot of Ebbo's lance; while Friedel was to be their Minnesinger; and
indeed certain verses, that he had murmured in his brother's ear, had
left no doubt in Ebbo's mind that the exploits would be worthily sung.

The soft dreamy eye was becoming Friedel's characteristic, as fire and
keenness distinguished his brother's glance.  When at rest, the twins
could be known apart by their expression, though in all other respects
they were as alike as ever; and let Ebbo look thoughtful or Friedel eager
and they were again undistinguishable; and indeed they were constantly
changing looks.  Had not Friedel been beside him, Ebbo would have been
deemed a wondrous student for his years; had not Ebbo been the standard
of comparison, Friedel would have been in high repute for spirit and
enterprise and skill as a cragsman, with the crossbow, and in all feats
of arms that the Schneiderlein could impart.  They shared all
occupations; and it was by the merest shade that Ebbo excelled with the
weapon, and Friedel with the book or tool.  For the artist nature was in
them, not intentionally excited by their mother, but far too strong to be
easily discouraged.  They had long daily gazed at Ulm in the distance,
hoping to behold the spire completed; and the illustrations in their
mother's books excited a strong desire to imitate them.  The floor had
often been covered with charcoal outlines even before Christina was
persuaded to impart the rules she had learnt from her uncle; and her
carving-tools were soon seized upon.  At first they were used only upon
knobs of sticks; but one day when the boys, roaming on the mountain, had
lost their way, and coming to the convent had been there hospitably
welcomed by Father Norbert, they came home wild to make carvings like
what they had seen in the chapel.  Jobst the Kohler was continually
importuned for soft wood; the fair was ransacked for knives; and even the
old Baroness could not find great fault with the occupation, base and
mechanical though it were, which disposed of the two restless spirits
during the many hours when winter storms confined them to the castle.
Rude as was their work, the constant observation and choice of subjects
were an unsuspected training and softening.  It was not in vain that they
lived in the glorious mountain fastness, and saw the sun descend in his
majesty, dyeing the masses of rock with purple and crimson; not in vain
that they beheld peak and ravine clothed in purest snow, flushed with
rosy light at morn and eve, or contrasted with the purple blue of the
sky; or that they stood marvelling at ice caverns with gigantic crystal
pendants shining with the most magical pure depths of sapphire and
emerald
said Friedel
And, when the snow
melted and the buds returned, the ivy spray, the smiling saxifrage, the
purple gentian bell, the feathery rowan leaf, the symmetrical lady's
mantle, were hailed and loved first as models, then for themselves.

One regret their mother had, almost amounting to shame.  Every virtuous
person believed in the efficacy of the rod, and, maugre her own docility,
she had been chastised with it almost as a religious duty; but her sons
had never felt the weight of a blow, except once when their grandmother
caught them carving a border of eagles and doves round the hall table,
and then Ebbo had returned the blow with all his might.  As to herself,
if she ever worked herself up to attempt chastisement, the Baroness was
sure to fall upon her for insulting the noble birth of her sons, and thus
gave them a triumph far worse for them than impunity.  In truth, the boys
had their own way, or rather the Baron had his way, and his way was Baron
Friedmund's.  Poor, bare, and scanty as were all the surroundings of
their life, everything was done to feed their arrogance, with only one
influence to counteract their education in pride and violence--a mother's
influence, indeed, but her authority was studiously taken from her, and
her position set at naught, with no power save what she might derive from
their love and involuntary honour, and the sight of the pain caused her
by their wrong-doings.

And so the summer's hay-harvest was come.  Peasants clambered into the
green nooks between the rocks to cut down with hook or knife the flowery
grass, for there was no space for the sweep of a scythe.  The best crop
was on the bank of the Braunwasser, by the Debateable Ford, but this was
cut and carried on the backs of the serfs, much earlier than the mountain
grass, and never without much vigilance against the Schlangenwaldern; but
this year the Count was absent at his Styrian castle, and little had been
seen or heard of his people.

The full muster of serfs appeared, for Frau Kunigunde admitted of no
excuses, and the sole absentee was a widow who lived on the ledge of the
mountain next above that on which the castle stood.  Her son reported her
to be very ill, and with tears in his eyes entreated Baron Friedel to
obtain leave for him to return to her, since she was quite alone in her
solitary hut, with no one even to give her a drink of water.  Friedel
rushed with the entreaty to his grandmother, but she laughed it to scorn.
Lazy Koppel only wanted an excuse, or, if not, the woman was old and
useless, and men could not be spared
said Friedel
Grieved and discomfited, Friedel betook himself to his mother and
brother
said the young Baron
But Christina interposed an offer to go and take Koppel's place beside
his mother, and her skill was so much prized over all the mountain-side,
that the alternative was gratefully accepted, and she was escorted up the
steep path by her two boys to the hovel, where she spent the day in
attendance on the sick woman.

Evening came on, the patient was better, but Koppel did not return, nor
did the young Barons come to fetch their mother home.  The last sunbeams
were dying off the mountain-tops, and, beginning to suspect something
amiss, she at length set off, and half way down met Koppel, who replied
to her question
And, on her further
interrogation, he added, that an unusually rich but small company had
been reported by Jobst the Kohler to be on the way to the ford, where he
had skilfully prepared a stumbling-block.  The gracious Baroness had
caused Hatto to jodel all the hay-makers together, and they had fallen on
the travellers by the straight path down the crag
Christina pursued her walk in dismay at this new beginning of freebooting
in its worst form, overthrowing all her hopes.  The best thing that could
happen would be the immediate interference of the Swabian League, while
her sons were too young to be personally held guilty.  Yet this might
involve ruin and confiscation; and, apart from all consequences, she
bitterly grieved that the stain of robbery should have fallen on her
hitherto innocent sons.

Every peasant she met greeted her with praises of their young lord, and,
when she mounted the hall-steps, she found the floor strewn with bales of
goods
cried Ebbo, flying up to her
The boy was so joyously excited that she could hardly withstand his
delight, but she did not move
he continued
she sighed, bending to kiss his brow.

He understood her at once, coloured, and spoke hastily and in defiance
she asked in a low voice
exclaimed Frau Kunigunde, entering from the storeroom,
where she had been disposing of some spices, a much esteemed commodity
cried Ebbo, hotly, turning round
said the trembling Christina
cried the furious Baroness,
striking her face
Her hand was
uplifted for another blow, when it was grasped by Eberhard, and, the next
moment, he likewise held the other hand, with youthful strength far
exceeding hers.  She had often struck his mother before, but not in his
presence, and the greatness of the shock seemed to make him cool and
absolutely dignified
he said
and
indeed the surprise seemed to have taken away her rage and volubility,
and unresistingly she allowed him to seat her in a chair.  Still holding
her arm, he made his clear boyish voice resound through the hall, saying
said Heinz
And the
voices of almost all the serfs present mingled in the cry
continued Eberhard
The old woman seemed confounded, and cowered in her chair without
speaking.  Christina, almost dismayed by this silence, would have
suggested to Ebbo to say something kind or consoling; but at that moment
she was struck with alarm by his renewed inquiry for his brother
Ebbo flew up the stairs, and shouted for his brother; then, coming down,
gave orders for the men to go out on the mountain-side, and search and
jodel.  He was hurrying with them, but his mother caught his arm
and the boy flung his arms round her neck, and
whispered in her ear
Infected by the boy's despairing voice, yet relieved that Friedel at
least had withstood the temptation, Christina still held Ebbo's hand, and
descended the steps with him.  The clear blue sky was fast showing the
stars, and into the evening stillness echoed the loud wide jodeln, cast
back from the other side of the ravine.  Ebbo tried to raise his voice,
but broke down in the shout, and, choked with agitation, said
she said, only grasping him tighter.

Thinner, shriller, clearer came a far-away cry from the heights, and Ebbo
thrilled from head to foot, then sent up another pealing mountain shout,
responded to by a jodel so pitched as to be plainly not an echo
said Hans
said Ebbo, sending up his
voice again, in hopes that the answer would sound less distant; but,
instead of this, its intonations conveyed, to these adepts in mountain
language, that Friedel stood in need of help
said the startled Ebbo
then, as
Christina uttered a faint cry of terror, Heinz added
said Ebbo, emitting a variety of shouts intimating speedy
aid, and receiving a halloo in reply that reassured even his mother.
Equipped with a rope and sundry torches of pinewood, Heinz and two of the
serfs were speedily ready, and Christina implored her son to let her come
so far as where she should not impede the others.  He gave her his arm,
and Heinz held his torch so as to guide her up a winding path, not in
itself very steep, but which she could never have climbed had daylight
shown her what it overhung.  Guided by the constant exchange of jodeln,
they reached a height where the wind blew cold and wild, and Ebbo pointed
to an intensely black shadow overhung by a peak rising like the gable of
a house into the sky
he said
exchanging the jodel for the name
called back the wanderer; and
steering their course round the rocks above the pool, the rescuers made
their way towards the base of the peak, which was in fact the summit of
the mountain, the top of the Eagle's Ladder, the highest step of which
they had attained.  The peak towered over them, and beneath, the castle
lights seemed as if it would be easy to let a stone fall straight down on
them.

Friedel's cry seemed to come from under their feet
The Schneiderlein explained that he would lower down a rope, which, when
fastened round Friedel's waist, would enable him to climb safely up; and,
after a breathless space, the torchlight shone upon the longed-for face,
and Friedel springing on the path, cried
He showed them the innocent face of a little white kid
He pointed to the peak, saying
exclaimed Ebbo, in
amazement
said Friedel
said Friedmund, as if half ashamed
interposed Ebbo,
eagerly
said Friedel, only now recalling them
Not a single word passed between them upon Ebbo's exploits.  Whether
Friedel had seen all from the heights, or whether he intuitively
perceived that his brother preferred silence, he held his peace, and both
were solely occupied in assisting their mother down the pass, the
difficulties of which were far more felt now than in the excitement of
the ascent; only when they were near home, and the boys were walking in
the darkness with arms round one another's necks, Christina heard Friedel
say low and rather sadly
To which Ebbo only answered
Christina understood that Friedel meant that robbery must be a severance
between the brothers.  Alas! had the moment come when their paths must
diverge?  Could Ebbo's step not be redeemed?

Ursel reported that Dame Kunigunde had scarcely spoken again, but had
retired, like one stunned, into her bed.  Friedel was half asleep after
the exertions of the day; but Ebbo did not speak, and both soon betook
themselves to their little turret chamber within their mother's.

Christina prayed long that night, her heart full of dread of the
consequence of this transgression.  Rumours of freebooting castles
destroyed by the Swabian League had reached her every wake day, and, if
this outrage were once known, the sufferance that left Adlerstein
unmolested must be over.  There was hope indeed in the weakness and
uncertainty of the Government; but present safety would in reality be the
ruin of Ebbo, since he would be encouraged to persist in the career of
violence now unhappily begun.  She knew not what to ask, save that her
sons might be shielded from evil, and might fulfil that promise of her
dream, the star in heaven, the light on earth.  And for the present!--the
good God guide her and her sons through the difficult morrow, and turn
the heart of the unhappy old woman below!

When, exhausted with weeping and watching, she rose from her knees, she
stole softly into her sons' turret for a last look at them.  Generally
they were so much alike in their sleep that even she was at fault between
them; but that night there was no doubt.  Friedel, pale after the day's
hunger and fatigue, slept with relaxed features in the most complete
calm; but though Ebbo's eyes were closed, there was no repose in his
face--his hair was tossed, his colour flushed, his brow contracted, the
arm flung across his brother had none of the ease of sleep.  She doubted
whether he were not awake; but, knowing that he would not brook any
endeavour to force confidence he did not offer, she merely hung over them
both, murmured a prayer and blessing, and left them
said Friedel, slowly wakening, and crossing himself as he
opened his eyes
said Ebbo, who was on his feet, beginning to
dress himself
Half awake, and entirely bewildered, Friedel dipped his finger in the
pearl mussel shell of holy water over their bed, and crossed his own brow
and his brother's; then, carrying their shoes, they crossed their
mother's chamber, and crept down stairs.  Ebbo muttered to his brother
and
then, with bare feet, moved noiselessly behind the wooden partition that
shut off his grandmother's box-bedstead from the rest of the hall.  She
lay asleep with open mouth, snoring loudly, and on her pillow lay the
bunch of castle keys, that was always carried to her at night.  It was a
moment of peril when Ebbo touched it; but he had nerved himself to be
both steady and dexterous, and he secured it without a jingle, and then,
without entering the hall, descended into a passage lit by a rough
opening cut in the rock.  Friedel, who began to comprehend, followed him
close and joyfully, and at the first door he fitted in, and with some
difficulty turned, a key, and pushed open the door of a vault, where
morning light, streaming through the grated window, showed two captives,
who had started to their feet, and now stood regarding the pair in the
doorway as if they thought their dreams were multiplying the young Baron
who had led the attack.

"_Signori_--" began the principal of the two; but Ebbo spoke
The merchant's knowledge of German was small, but the purport of the
words was plain, and he gladly left the damp, chilly vault.  Ebbo pointed
to the bales that strewed the hall
he
said
he said, for these had been
given to him in the moment of victory
whispered Friedel; but the merchant was too anxious to
have any appetite.  Only he faltered in broken German a proposal to pay
his respects to the Signora Castellana, to whom he owed so much
said Ebbo, with a sudden inspiration caught
from the Latinized sound of some of the Italian words, but colouring
desperately as he spoke.

The Latin proved most serviceable, and the merchant understood that his
property was restored, and made all speed to gather it together, and
transport it to the stable.  One or two of his beasts of burden had been
lost in the fray, and there were more packages than could well be carried
by the merchant, his servant, and his horse.  Ebbo gave the aid of the
old white mare--now very white indeed--and in truth the boys pitied the
merchant's fine young bay for being put to base trading uses, and were
rather shocked to hear that it had been taken in payment for a knight's
branched velvet gown, and would be sold again at Ulm
said they to one another, as they
patted the creature's neck with such fervent admiration that the merchant
longed to present it to them, when he saw that the old white mare was the
sole steed they possessed, and watched their tender guidance both of her
and of the bay up the rocky path so familiar to them
asked Ebbo
whispered Friedel
exclaimed Ebbo
cried Friedel
asked one twin of the other
cried both boys, turning in horror
said Ebbo, in an honest, open tone, though
blushing
The boys had by this time led the traveller through the Gemsbock's Pass,
within sight of the convent
said Ebbo
said Ebbo, with boyish lordliness
continued the trader
said Ebbo
asked the merchant
muttered the merchant, as he watched the two boys turn down
the pass
sighed Ebbo, as soon as he had hurried out of reach of the
temptation
said
Friedel
said Friedel
asked Friedel
said Ebbo
said Friedel, sadly
said Ebbo, standing still
said Friedel
said Friedel
Friedel was silent for a few moments, then said
answered the other brother
hitherto Friedel's worst grievance
said Friedel
Friedel crossed himself, and uttered an imploring exclamation of horror
at these wild words
said Ebbo
cried Friedel
he added, hesitating, unwilling to harp on the former
string.  Ebbo broke in imperiously
said Ebbo
said Friedmund, solemnly
said Ebbo, with perfect seriousness
Ebbo would have amused himself with the dismay of his garrison a little
longer, had not Friedel reminded him that their mother might be suffering
for their delay, and this suggestion made him march in hastily.  He found
her standing drooping under the pitiless storm which Frau Kunigunde was
pouring out at the highest pitch of her cracked, trembling voice, one
hand uplifted and clenched, the other grasping the back of a chair, while
her whole frame shook with rage too mighty for her strength
said Ebbo, striding up to the scene of action
Friedmund threw a supporting arm round his mother, but Ebbo confronted
the old lady
he said
he added; and, standing in the middle of the hall, he took off his
cap, and spoke gravely
His mother and Friedel breathed an "Amen" with all their hearts; and he
continued
Page 126&rsqb;

That last day's work had made a great step in Ebbo's life, and there he
stood, grave and firm, ready for the assault; for, in effect, he and all
besides expected that the old lady would fly at him or at his mother like
a wild cat, as she would assuredly have done in a like case a year
earlier; but she took them all by surprise by collapsing into her chair
and sobbing piteously.  Ebbo, much distressed, tried to make her
understand that she was to have all care and honour; but she muttered
something about ingratitude, and continued to exhaust herself with
weeping, spurning away all who approached her; and thenceforth she lived
in a gloomy, sullen acquiescence in her deposition.

Christina inclined to the opinion that she must have had some slight
stroke in the night, for she was never the same woman again; her vigour
had passed away, and she would sit spinning, or rocking herself in her
chair, scarcely alive to what passed, or scolding and fretting like a
shadow of her old violence.  Nothing pleased her but the attentions of
her grandsons, and happily she soon ceased to know them apart, and gave
Ebbo credit for all that was done for her by Friedel, whose separate
existence she seemed to have forgotten.

As long as her old spirit remained she would not suffer the approach of
her daughter-in-law, and Christina could only make suggestions for her
comfort to be acted on by Ursel; and though the reins of government fast
dropped from the aged hands, they were but gradually and cautiously
assumed by the younger Baroness.

Only Elsie remained of the rude, demoralized girls whom she had found in
the castle, and their successors, though dull and uncouth, were meek and
manageable; the men of the castle had all, except Matz, been always
devoted to the Frau Christina; and Matz, to her great relief, ran away so
soon as he found that decency and honesty were to be the rule.  Old
Hatto, humpbacked Hans, and Heinz the Schneiderlein, were the whole male
establishment, and had at least the merit of attachment to herself and
her sons; and in time there was a shade of greater civilization about the
castle, though impeded both by dire poverty and the doggedness of the old
retainers.  At least the court was cleared of the swine, and, within
doors, the table was spread with dainty linen out of the parcels from
Ulm, and the meals served with orderliness that annoyed the boys at
first, but soon became a subject of pride and pleasure.

Frau Kunigunde lingered long, with increasing infirmities.  After the
winter day, when, running down at a sudden noise, Friedel picked her up
from the hearthstone, scorched, bruised, almost senseless, she accepted
Christina's care with nothing worse than a snarl, and gradually seemed to
forget the identity of her nurse with the interloping burgher girl.
Thanks or courtesy had been no part of her nature, least of all towards
her own sex, and she did little but grumble, fret, and revile her
attendant; but she soon depended so much on Christina's care, that it was
hardly possible to leave her.  At her best and strongest, her talk was
maundering abuse of her son's low-born wife; but at times her wanderings
showed black gulfs of iniquity and coarseness of soul that would make the
gentle listener tremble, and be thankful that her sons were out of
hearing.  And thus did Christina von Adlerstein requite fifteen years of
persecution.

The old lady's first failure had been in the summer of 1488; it was the
Advent season of 1489, when the snow was at the deepest, and the frost at
the hardest, that the two hardy mountaineer grandsons fetched over the
pass Father Norbert, and a still sturdier, stronger monk, to the dying
woman
asked Ebbo, from the door of the upper chamber,
where the Adlersteins began and ended life, shaking the snow from his
mufflings.  Ruddy with exertion in the sharp wind, what a contrast he was
to all within the room
said a thin, feeble voice
said Christina
asked Ebbo
feebly screamed the old woman
Stony insensibility ensued; nor did she speak again, though life lasted
many hours longer.  The priests did their office; for, impenitent as the
life and frantic as the words had been, the opinions of the time deemed
that their rites might yet give the departing soul a chance, though the
body was unconscious.

When all was over, snow was again falling, shifting and drifting, so that
it was impossible to leave the castle, and the two monks were kept there
for a full fortnight, during which Christmas solemnities were observed in
the chapel, for the first time since the days of Friedmund the Good.  The
corpse of Kunigunde, preserved--we must say the word--salted, was placed in
a coffin, and laid in that chapel to await the melting of the snows, when
the vault at the Hermitage could be opened.  And this could not be
effected till Easter had nearly come round again, and it was within a
week of their sixteenth birthday that the two young Barons stood together
at the coffin's head, serious indeed, but more with the thought of life
than of death
FOR the first time in her residence at Adlerstein, now full half her
life, the Freiherrinn Christina ventured to send a messenger to Ulm,
namely, a lay brother of the convent of St. Ruprecht, who undertook to
convey to Master Gottfried Sorel her letter, informing him of the death
of her mother-in-law, and requesting him to send the same tidings to the
Freiherr von Adlerstein Wildschloss, the kinsman and godfather of her
sons.

She was used to wait fifty-two weeks for answers to her letters, and was
amazed when, at the end of three, two stout serving-men were guided by
Jobst up the pass; but her heart warmed to their flat caps and round
jerkins, they looked so like home.  They bore a letter of invitation to
her and her sons to come at once to her uncle's house.  The King of the
Romans, and perhaps the Emperor, were to come to the city early in the
summer, and there could be no better opportunity of presenting the young
Barons to their sovereign.  Sir Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss would
meet them there for the purpose, and would obtain their admission to the
League, in which all Swabian nobles had bound themselves to put down
robbery and oppression, and outside which there was nothing but outlawry
and danger
said Ebbo, between his teeth, as he leant moodily
against the wall, while his mother was gone to attend to the fare to be
set before the messengers
exclaimed Friedel, cut short
in an exclamation of delight
said Friedel, laughing
said Ebbo, sinking his voice
said Friedel
the boy's eye expanded and glistened
with eagerness
However Ebbo forbore to damp his mother's joy, save by the one
warning
The manly sound of the words gave a sweet sense of exultation to the
mother, even while she dreaded the proud spirit, and whispered
Certainly Ebbo, hitherto the most impetuous and least thoughtful of the
two lads, had a gravity and seriousness about him, that, but for his
naturally sweet temper, would have seemed sullen.  His aspirations for
adventure had hitherto been more vehement than Friedel's; but, when the
time seemed at hand, his regrets at what he might have to yield
overpowered his hopes of the future.  The fierce haughtiness of the old
Adlersteins could not brook the descent from the crag, even while the
keen, clear burgher wit that Ebbo inherited from the other side of the
house taught him that the position was untenable, and that his isolated
glory was but a poor mean thing after all.  And the struggle made him sad
and moody.

Friedel, less proud, and with nothing to yield, was open to blithe
anticipations of what his fancy pictured as the home of all the beauty,
sacred or romantic, that he had glimpsed at through his mother.
Religion, poetry, learning, art, refinement, had all come to him through
her; and though he had a soul that dreamt and soared in the lonely
grandeur of the mountain heights, it craved further aliment for its
yearnings for completeness and perfection.  Long ago had Friedel come to
the verge of such attainments as he could work out of his present
materials, and keen had been his ardour for the means of progress, though
only the mountain tarn had ever been witness to the full outpouring of
the longings with which he gazed upon the dim, distant city like a land
of enchantment.

The journey was to be at once, so as to profit by the escort of Master
Sorel's men.  Means of transport were scanty, but Ebbo did not choose
that the messengers should report the need, and bring back a bevy of
animals at the burgher's expense; so the mother was mounted on the old
white mare, and her sons and Heinz trusted to their feet.  By setting out
early on a May morning, the journey could be performed ere night, and the
twilight would find them in the domains of the free city, where their
small numbers would be of no importance.  As to their appearance, the
mother wore a black woollen gown and mantle, and a black silk hood tied
under her chin, and sitting loosely round the stiff frame of her white
cap--a nun-like garb, save for the soft brown hair, parted over her brow,
and more visible than she sometimes thought correct, but her sons would
not let her wear it out of sight.

The brothers had piece by piece surveyed the solitary suit of armour
remaining in the castle; but, though it might serve for defence, it could
not be made fit for display, and they must needs be contented with blue
cloth, spun, woven, dyed, fashioned, and sewn at home, chiefly by their
mother, and by her embroidered on the breast with the white eagle of
Adlerstein.  Short blue cloaks and caps of the same, with an eagle plume
in each, and leggings neatly fashioned of deerskin, completed their
equipments.  Ebbo wore his father's sword, Friedel had merely a dagger
and crossbow.  There was not a gold chain, not a brooch, not an approach
to an ornament among the three, except the medal that had always
distinguished Ebbo, and the coral rosary at Christina's girdle.  Her own
trinkets had gone in masses for the souls of her father and husband; and
though a few costly jewels had been found in Frau Kunigunde's hoards, the
mode of their acquisition was so doubtful, that it had seemed fittest to
bestow them in alms and masses for the good of her soul
thought Christina, as for the first time for eighteen years she
crossed the wild ravine where her father had led her, a trembling little
captive, longing for wings like a dove's to flutter home again.  Who
would then have predicted that she should descend after so long and weary
a time, and with a gallant boy on either side of her, eager to aid her
every step, and reassure her at each giddy pass, all joy and hope before
her and them?  Yet she was not without some dread and misgiving, as she
watched her elder son, always attentive to her, but unwontedly silent,
with a stern gravity on his young brow, a proud sadness on his lip.  And
when he had come to the Debateable Ford, and was about to pass the
boundaries of his own lands, he turned and gazed back on the castle and
mountain with a silent but passionate ardour, as though he felt himself
doing them a wrong by perilling their independence.

The sun had lately set, and the moon was silvering the Danube, when the
travellers came full in view of the imperial free city, girt in with
mighty walls and towers--the vine-clad hill dominated by its crowning
church; the irregular outlines of the unfinished spire of the cathedral
traced in mysterious dark lacework against the pearly sky; the lofty
steeple-like gate-tower majestically guarding the bridge.  Christina
clasped her hands in thankfulness, as at the familiar face of a friend;
Friedel glowed like a minstrel introduced to his fair dame, long wooed at
a distance; Ebbo could not but exclaim
The gates were closed, and the serving-men had to parley at the barbican
ere the heavy door was opened to admit the party to the bridge, between
deep battlemented stone walls, with here and there loopholes, showing the
shimmering of the river beneath.  The slow, tired tread of the old mare
sounded hollow; the river rushed below with the full swell of evening
loudness; a deep-toned convent-bell tolled gravely through the stillness,
while, between its reverberations, clear, distinct notes of joyous music
were borne on the summer wind, and a nightingale sung in one of the
gardens that bordered the banks
breathlessly murmured Friedel, as they
halted under the dark arch of the great gateway tower.

Not however in Friedel's dreams had been the hearty voice that proceeded
from the lighted guard-room in the thickness of the gateway
And the captain of the watch appeared among upraised lanterns
and torches that showed a broad, smooth, plump face beneath a plain steel
helmet
exclaimed Christina, amazed at the breadth of
visage and person
he continued, walking by her side
he answered, in an odd sort of apologetic tone
said Christina, wishing she could convey to him how
welcome he had been to marry any one he liked, as far as she was
concerned--he, in whom her fears of mincing goldsmiths had always taken
form--then signing with her hand
muttered Grundt, as a not well-conceived apology for not
having saluted the young gentlemen
with a
bow, most haughtily returned by Ebbo, who was heartily wishing himself on
his mountain
Well did Christina know the turn down the street, darkened by the
overhanging brows of the tall houses, but each lower window laughing with
the glow of light within that threw out the heavy mullions and the
circles and diamonds of the latticework, and here and there the brilliant
tints of stained glass sparkled like jewels in the upper panes, pictured
with Scripture scene, patron saint, or trade emblem.  The familiar porch
was reached, the familiar knock resounded on the iron-studded door.
Friedel lifted his mother from her horse, and felt that she was quivering
from head to foot, and at the same moment the light streamed from the
open door on the white horse, and the two young faces, one eager, the
other with knit brows and uneasy eyes.  A kind of echo pervaded the
house
and as one in a dream Christina
entered, crossed the well-known hall, looked up to her uncle and aunt on
the stairs, perceived little change on their countenances, and sank upon
her knees, with bowed head and clasped hands
exclaimed her uncle, raising her with one
hand, and crossing her brow in benediction with the other
and he embraced her tenderly
said Hausfrau Johanna, more formally
cried Christina, courting her fond embrace by
gestures of the most eager affection
And she stood with a hand on each, proud that their
heads were so far above her own, and looking still so slight and girlish
in figure that she might better have been their sister than their mother.
The cloud that the sudden light had revealed on Ebbo's brow had cleared
away, and he made an inclination neither awkward nor ungracious in its
free mountain dignity and grace, but not devoid of mountain rusticity and
shy pride, and far less cordial than was Friedel's manner.  Both were
infinitely relieved to detect nothing of the greasy burgher, and were
greatly struck with the fine venerable head before them; indeed, Friedel
would, like his mother, have knelt to ask a blessing, had he not been
under command not to outrun his brother's advances towards her kindred
said Master Gottfried
he added,
smiling
And, ceremoniously giving his hand, he proceeded to lead his niece up the
stairs, while Ebbo, labouring under ignorance of city forms and
uncertainty of what befitted his dignity, presented his hand to his aunt
with an air that half-amused, half-offended the shrewd dame
exclaimed Christina
softly said Christina,
though with too much heartfelt exultation greatly to doubt that all the
world must be satisfied with two such boys, if only Ebbo would be his
true self.

The luxury of the house, the wainscoted and tapestried walls, the
polished furniture, the lamps and candles, the damask linen, the rich
array of silver, pewter, and brightly-coloured glass, were a great
contrast to the bare walls and scant necessaries of Schloss Adlerstein;
but Ebbo was resolved not to expose himself by admiration, and did his
best to stifle Friedel's exclamations of surprise and delight.  Were not
these citizens to suppose that everything was tenfold more costly at the
baronial castle?  And truly the boy deserved credit for the consideration
for his mother, which made him merely reserved, while he felt like a wild
eagle in a poultry-yard.  It was no small proof of his affection to
forbear more interference with his mother's happiness than was the
inevitable effect of that intuition which made her aware that he was
chafing and ill at ease.  For his sake, she allowed herself to be placed
in the seat of honour, though she longed, as of old, to nestle at her
uncle's feet, and be again his child; but, even while she felt each
acceptance of a token of respect as almost an injury to them, every look
and tone was showing how much the same Christina she had returned.

In truth, though her life had been mournful and oppressed, it had not
been such as to age her early.  It had been all submission, without wear
and tear of mind, and too simple in its trials for care and moiling; so
the fresh, lily-like sweetness of her maiden bloom was almost intact,
and, much as she had undergone, her once frail health had been so braced
by the mountain breezes, that, though delicacy remained, sickliness was
gone from her appearance.  There was still the exquisite purity and
tender modesty of expression, but with greater sweetness in the pensive
brown eyes
said her uncle, after duly contemplating her
Ebbo almost pardoned his great-uncle for being his great-uncle
said the housewife
aunt, looking with concern at the coarse texture of her black sleeve
said Christina, smiling
exclaimed the aunt, now in an
accent of real, not conventional respect
said Friedel, coming near to
let the housewife examine the texture
said Christina, with clasped hands, looking from one to
another with earnest love
she fondly answered,
half regretting her fond eager movement, as Ebbo seemed to shrink
together with a gesture perceived by her uncle
he said,
good-humouredly, though gravely
Ebbo forced himself to say
He held up his head rather as if he thought it a fool's paradise, but
Master Gottfried answered
There was something in the old man's frank, dignified tone of grave
reproof that at once impressed Ebbo with a sense of the true superiority
of that wise and venerable old age to his own petulant baronial
self-assertion.  He had both head and heart to feel the burgher's
victory, and with a deep blush, though not without dignity, he answered
He was going to say
but a look into the grand benignity of the
countenance completed the conquest, and he turned it into
Friedel at the same instant bent his knee, exclaiming
For in truth there was in the soul of the boy, who had never had any but
women to look up to, a strange yearning towards reverence, which was
called into action with inexpressible force by the very aspect and tone
of such a sage elder and counsellor as Master Gottfried Sorel, and he
took advantage of the first opening permitted by his brother.  And the
sympathy always so strong between the two quickened the like feeling in
Ebbo, so that the same movement drew him on his knee beside Friedel in
oblivion or renunciation of all lordly pride towards a kinsman such as he
had here encountered
said Master Gottfried, with the
same kind dignity
He was unable to distinguish between the two exactly similar forms that
knelt before him, yet there was something in the quivering of Friedel's
head, which made him press it with a shade more of tenderness than the
other.  And in truth tears were welling into the eyes veiled by the
fingers that Friedel clasped over his face, for such a blessing was
strange and sweet to him.

Their mother was ready to weep for joy.  There was now no drawback to her
bliss, since her son and her uncle had accepted one another; and she
repaired to her own beloved old chamber a happier being than she had been
since she had left its wainscoted walls.

Nay, as she gazed out at the familiar outlines of roof and tower, and
felt herself truly at home, then knelt by the little undisturbed altar of
her devotions, with the cross above and her own patron saint below in
carved wood, and the flowers which the good aunt had ever kept as a
freshly renewed offering, she felt that she was happier, more fully
thankful and blissful than even in the girlish calm of her untroubled
life.  Her prayer that she might come again in peace had been more than
fulfilled; nay, when she had seen her boys kneel meekly to receive her
uncle's blessing, it was in some sort to her as if the work was done, as
if the millstone had been borne up for her, and had borne her and her
dear ones with it.

But there was much to come.  She knew full well that, even though her
sons' first step had been in the right direction, it was in a path beset
with difficulties; and how would her proud Ebbo meet them
AFTER having once accepted Master Gottfried, Ebbo froze towards him and
Dame Johanna no more, save that a naturally imperious temper now and then
led to fitful stiffnesses and momentary haughtiness, which were easily
excused in one so new to the world and afraid of compromising his rank.
In general he could afford to enjoy himself with a zest as hearty as that
of the simpler-minded Friedel.

They were early afoot, but not before the heads of the household were
coming forth for the morning devotions at the cathedral; and the streets
were stirring into activity, and becoming so peopled that the boys
supposed that it was a great fair day.  They had never seen so many
people together even at the Friedmund Wake, and it was several days
before they ceased to exclaim at every passenger as a new curiosity.

The Dome Kirk awed and hushed them.  They had looked to it so long that
perhaps no sublunary thing could have realized their expectations, and
Friedel avowed that he did not know what he thought of it.  It was not
such as he had dreamt, and, like a German as he was, he added that he
could not think, he could only feel, that there was something ineffable
in it; yet he was almost disappointed to find his visions unfulfilled,
and the hues of the painted glass less pure and translucent than those of
the ice crystals on the mountains.  However after his eye had become
trained, the deep influence of its dim solemn majesty, and of the echoes
of its organ tones, and chants of high praise or earnest prayer, began to
enchain his spirit; and, if ever he were missing, he was sure to be found
among the mysteries of the cathedral aisles, generally with Ebbo, who
felt the spell of the same grave fascination, since whatever was true of
the one brother was generally true of the other.  They were essentially
alike, though some phases of character and taste were more developed in
the one or the other.

Master Gottfried was much edified by their perfect knowledge of the names
and numbers of his books.  They instantly, almost resentfully, missed the
Cicero's _Offices_ that he had parted with, and joyfully hailed his new
acquisitions, often sitting with heads together over the same book,
reading like active-minded youths who were used to out-of-door life and
exercise in superabundant measure, and to study as a valued recreation,
with only food enough for the intellect to awaken instead of satisfying
it.

They were delighted to obtain instruction from a travelling student, then
attending the schools of Ulm--a meek, timid lad who, for love of learning
and desire of the priesthood, had endured frightful tyranny from the
Bacchanten or elder scholars, and, having at length attained that rank,
had so little heart to retaliate on the juniors that his contemporaries
despised him, and led him a cruel life until he obtained food and shelter
from Master Gottfried at the pleasant cost of lessons to the young
Barons.  Poor Bastien! this land of quiet, civility, and books was a
foretaste of Paradise to him after the hard living, barbarity, and coarse
vices of his comrades, of whom he now and then disclosed traits that made
his present pupils long to give battle to the big shaggy youths who used
to send out the lesser lads to beg and steal for them, and cruelly
maltreated such as failed in the quest.

Lessons in music and singing were gladly accepted by both lads, and from
their uncle's carving they could not keep their hands.  Ebbo had begun by
enjoining Friedel to remember that the work that had been sport in the
mountains would be basely mechanical in the city, and Friedel as usual
yielded his private tastes; but on the second day Ebbo himself was
discovered in the workshop, watching the magic touch of the deft workman,
and he was soon so enticed by the perfect appliances as to take tool in
hand and prove himself not unadroit in the craft.  Friedel however
excelled in delicacy of touch and grace and originality of conception,
and produced such workmanship that Master Gottfried could not help
stroking his hair and telling him it was a pity he was not born to belong
to the guild
cried Ebbo
interrupted Friedel
said Ebbo
But Ebbo did not find fault with the skill Friedel was bestowing on his
work--a carving in wood of a dove brooding over two young eagles--the
device that both were resolved to assume.  When their mother asked what
their lady-loves would say to this, Ebbo looked up, and with the fullest
conviction in his lustrous eyes declared that no love should ever rival
his motherling in his heart.  For truly her tender sweetness had given
her sons' affection a touch of romance, for which Master Gottfried liked
them the better, though his wife thought their familiarity with her
hardly accordant with the patriarchal discipline of the citizens.

The youths held aloof from these burghers, for Master Gottfried wisely
desired to give them time to be tamed before running risk of offence,
either to, or by, their wild shy pride; and their mother contrived to
time her meetings with her old companions when her sons were otherwise
occupied.  Master Gottfried made it known that the marriage portion he
had designed for his niece had been intrusted to a merchant trading in
peltry to Muscovy, and the sum thus realized was larger than any bride
had yet brought to Adlerstein.  Master Gottfried would have liked to
continue the same profitable speculations with it; but this would have
been beyond the young Baron's endurance, and his eyes sparkled when his
mother spoke of repairing the castle, refitting the chapel, having a
resident chaplain, cultivating more land, increasing the scanty stock of
cattle, and attempting the improvements hitherto prevented by lack of
means.  He fervently declared that the motherling was more than equal to
the wise spinning Queen Bertha of legend and lay; and the first pleasant
sense of wealth came in the acquisition of horses, weapons, and
braveries.  In his original mood, Ebbo would rather have stood before the
Diet in his home-spun blue than have figured in cloth of gold at a
burgher's expense; but he had learned to love his uncle, he regarded the
marriage portion as family property, and moreover he sorely longed to
feel himself and his brother well mounted, and scarcely less to see his
mother in a velvet gown.

Here was his chief point of sympathy with the housemother, who, herself
precluded from wearing miniver, velvet, or pearls, longed to deck her
niece therewith, in time to receive Sir Kasimir of Adlerstein
Wildschloss, as he had promised to meet his godsons at Ulm.  The knight's
marriage had lasted only a few years, and had left him no surviving
children except one little daughter, whom he had placed in a nunnery at
Ulm, under the care of her mother's sister.  His lands lay higher up the
Danube, and he was expected at Ulm shortly before the Emperor's arrival.
He had been chiefly in Flanders with the King of the Romans, and had only
returned to Germany when the Netherlanders had refused the regency of
Maximilian, and driven him out of their country, depriving him of the
custody of his children.

Pfingsttag, or Pentecost-day, was the occasion of Christina's first full
toilet, and never was bride more solicitously or exultingly arrayed than
she, while one boy held the mirror and the other criticized and admired
as the aunt adjusted the pearl-bordered coif, and long white veil
floating over the long-desired black velvet dress.  How the two lads
admired and gazed, caring far less for their own new and noble attire!
Friedel was indeed somewhat concerned that the sword by his side was so
much handsomer than that which Ebbo wore, and which, for all its dinted
scabbard and battered hilt, he was resolved never to discard.

It was a festival of brilliant joy.  Wreaths of flowers hung from the
windows; rich tapestries decked the Dome Kirk, and the relics were
displayed in shrines of wonderful costliness of material and beauty of
workmanship; little birds, with thin cakes fastened to their feet, were
let loose to fly about the church, in strange allusion to the event of
the day; the clergy wore their most gorgeous robes; and the exulting
music of the mass echoed from the vaults of the long-drawn aisles, and
brought a rapt look of deep calm ecstasy over Friedel's sensitive
features.  The beggars evidently considered a festival as a harvest-day,
and crowded round the doors of the cathedral.  As the Lady of Adlerstein
came out leaning on Ebbo's arm, with Friedel on her other side, they
evidently attracted the notice of a woman whose thin brown face looked
the darker for the striped red and yellow silk kerchief that bound the
dark locks round her brow, as, holding out a beringed hand, she fastened
her glittering jet black eyes on them, and exclaimed
said Christina, seeing
that her sons, to whom gipsies were an amazing novelty, were in extreme
surprise at the fortune-telling proposal
said the woman, still standing in the way
Ebbo gave a sudden start of dismay and passion; his mother held him fast
asked Friedel, eagerly
began Christina; but her steps
were checked by a call from Master Gottfried just behind
A tall, fine-looking person, in the long rich robe worn on peaceful
occasions, stood forth, doffing his eagle-plumed bonnet, and, as the lady
turned and curtsied low, he put his knee to the ground and kissed her
hand, saying
whispered Ebbo to his brother; while
their mother, blushing, replied
was the courteous answer
Thereupon, in true German fashion, Sir Kasimir embraced each youth in the
open street, and then, removing his long, embroidered Spanish glove, he
offered his hand, or rather the tips of his fingers, to lead the Frau
Christina home.

Master Sorel had invited him to become his guest at a very elaborate
ornamental festival meal in honour of the great holiday, at which were to
be present several wealthy citizens with their wives and families, old
connections of the Sorel family.  Ebbo had resolved upon treating them
with courteous reserve and distance; but he was surprised to find his
cousin of Wildschloss comporting himself among the burgomasters and their
dames as freely as though they had been his equals, and to see that they
took such demeanour as perfectly natural.  Quick to perceive, the boy
gathered that the gulf between noble and burgher was so great that no
intimacy could bridge it over, no reserve widen it, and that his own
bashful hauteur was almost a sign that he knew that the gulf had been
passed by his own parents; but shame and consciousness did not enable him
to alter his manner but rather added to its stiffness
said Sir Kasimir, who had met many of
the exiles of the Roses at the court of Mary of Burgundy; and then he
turned to discuss with the guildmasters the interruption to trade caused
by Flemish jealousies.

After the lengthy meal, the tables were removed, the long gallery was
occupied by musicians, and Master Gottfried crossed the hall to tell his
eldest grandnephew that to him he should depute the opening of the dance
with the handsome bride of the Rathsherr, Ulrich Burger.  Ebbo blushed up
to the eyes, and muttered that he prayed his uncle to excuse him
said the old citizen, really displeased
interposed Friedel hastily, raising his sweet candid face with a
look between shame and merriment
Master Gottfried looked perplexed, for these dances were matters of great
punctilio.  It was but seven years since the Lord of Praunstein had
defied the whole city of Frankfort because a damsel of that place had
refused to dance with one of his Cousins; and, though "Fistright" and
letters of challenge had been made illegal, yet the whole city of Ulm
would have resented the affront put on it by the young lord of
Adlerstein.  Happily the Freiherr of Adlerstein Wildschloss was at hand
he said
he added, smiling to the youths
Christina would gladly have transferred her noble partner to the
Rathsherrinn, but she feared to mortify her good uncle and aunt further,
and consented to figure alone with Sir Kasimir in one of the majestic,
graceful dances performed by a single couple before a gazing assembly.
So she let him lead her to her place, and they bowed and bent, swept past
one another, and moved in interlacing lines and curves, with a grand slow
movement that displayed her quiet grace and his stately port and courtly
air
said Friedel to his brother
returned Ebbo
said Friedel, who had been watching the steps rather than
attending
Friedel came forward, and the substitution was undetected by all save
their mother and uncle; by the latter only because, addressing Ebbo, he
received a reply in a tone such as Friedel never used.

Natural grace, quickness of ear and eye, and a skilful partner, rendered
Friedel's so fair a performance that he ventured on sending his brother
to attend the councilloress with wine and comfits; while he in his own
person performed another dance with the city dame next in pretension, and
their mother was amused by Sir Kasimir's remark, that her second son
danced better than the elder, but both must learn.

The remark displeased Ebbo.  In his isolated castle he knew no superior,
and his nature might yield willingly, but rebelled at being put down.
His brother was his perfect equal in all mental and bodily attributes,
but it was the absence of all self-assertion that made Ebbo so often give
him the preference; it was his mother's tender meekness in which lay her
power with him; and if he yielded to Gottfried Sorel's wisdom and
experience, it was with the inward consciousness of voluntary deference
to one of lower rank.  But here was Wildschloss, of the same noble blood
with himself, his elder, his sponsor, his protector, with every right to
direct him, so that there was no choice between grateful docility and
headstrong folly.  If the fellow had been old, weak, or in any way
inferior, it would have been more bearable; but he was a tried warrior, a
sage counsellor, in the prime vigour of manhood, and with a kindly
reasonable authority to which only a fool could fail to attend, and which
for that very reason chafed Ebbo excessively.

Moreover there was the gipsy prophecy ever rankling in the lad's heart,
and embittering to him the sight of every civility from his kinsman to
his mother.  Sir Kasimir lodged at a neighbouring hostel; but he spent
much time with his cousins, and tried to make them friends with his
squire, Count Rudiger.  A great offence to Ebbo was however the
criticisms of both knight and squire on the bearing of the young Barons
in military exercises.  Truly, with no instructor but the rough
lanzknecht Heinz, they must, as Friedel said, have been born paladins to
have equalled youths whose life had been spent in chivalrous training
said Ebbo
said Friedel
cried
Ebbo
laughed Friedel
said Ebbo.

But, as Rudiger was by four years his senior, and very expert, the upshot
of these encounters was quite otherwise, and the young gentlemen were
disabused of the notion that fighting came by nature, and found that, if
they desired success in a serious conflict, they must practise diligently
in the city tilt-yard, where young men were trained to arms.  The
crossbow was the only weapon with which they excelled; and, as shooting
was a favourite exercise of the burghers, their proficiency was not as
exclusive as had seemed to Ebbo a baronial privilege.  Harquebuses were
novelties to them, and they despised them as burgher weapons, in spite of
Sir Kasimir's assurance that firearms were a great subject of study and
interest to the King of the Romans.  The name of this personage was, it
may be feared, highly distasteful to the Freiherr von Adlerstein, both as
Wildschloss's model of knightly perfection, and as one who claimed
submission from his haughty spirit.  When Sir Kasimir spoke to him on the
subject of giving his allegiance, he stiffly replied
said Wildschloss, rather more lightly than agreed
with the Baron's dignity
said Ebbo, proudly
said Friedel, while Ebbo looked as if the notion were hard of digestion
demanded Ebbo triumphantly
said Sir Kasimir, with a shade of irony
in his tone
Ebbo was so much the more stimulated to take his chance, and do nothing
on compulsion; but Friedel put in the question to what the oaths would
bind them
said Ebbo coldly
said Friedel
said Wildschloss
said Eberhard, turning
solemnly on him
said the provoking kinsman
Meantime, as Ebbo said to Friedel, how much might happen--a disruption of
the empire, a crusade against the Turks, a war in Italy, some grand means
of making the Diet value the sword of a free baron, without chaining him
down to gratify the greed of hungry Austria.  If only Wildschloss could
be shaken off!  But he only became constantly more friendly and
intrusive, almost paternal.  No wonder, when the mother and her uncle
made him so welcome, and were so intolerably grateful for his impertinent
interference, while even Friedel confessed the reasonableness of his
counsels, as if that were not the very sting of them.

He even asked leave to bring his little daughter Thekla from her convent
to see the Lady of Adlerstein.  She was a pretty, flaxen-haired maiden of
five years old, in a round cap, and long narrow frock, with a little
cross at the neck.  She had never seen any one beyond the walls of the
nunnery; and, when her father took her from the lay sister's arms, and
carried her to the gallery, where sat Hausfrau Johanna, in dark green,
slashed with cherry colour, Master Gottfried, in sober crimson, with gold
medal and chain, Freiherrinn Christina, in silver-broidered black, and
the two Junkern stood near in the shining mail in which they were going
to the tilt yard, she turned her head in terror, struggled with her
scarce known father, and shrieked for Sister Grethel
she sobbed, in the lay sister's arms
Vain was the attempt to make her lift her face from the black serge
shoulder where she had hidden it.  Sister Grethel coaxed and scolded, Sir
Kasimir reproved, the housemother offered comfits, and Christina's soft
voice was worst of all, for the child, probably taking her for Our Lady
herself, began to gasp forth a general confession
Here the lay sister took strong measures for
closing the little mouth, and Christina drew back, recommending that the
child should be left gradually to discover their terrestrial nature.
Ebbo had looked on with extreme disgust, trying to hurry Friedel, who had
delayed to trace some lines for his mother on her broidery pattern.  In
passing the step where Grethel sat with Thekla on her lap, the clank of
their armour caused the uplifting of the little flaxen head, and two wide
blue eyes looked over Grethel's shoulder, and met Friedel's sunny glance.
He smiled; she laughed back again.  He held out his arms, and, though his
hands were gauntleted, she let him lift her up, and curiously smoothed
and patted his cheek, as if he had been a strange animal
she said
It was not in Ebbo's nature not to smile encouragement at the fair little
face, with its wistful look.  He drew off his glove to caress her silken
hair, and for a few minutes she was played with by the two brothers like
a newly-invented toy, receiving their attentions with pretty
half-frightened graciousness, until Count Rudiger hastened in to summon
them, and Friedel placed her on his mother's knee, where she speedily
became perfectly happy, and at ease.

Her extreme delight, when towards evening the Junkern returned, was
flattering even to Ebbo; and, when it was time for her to be taken home,
she made strong resistance, clinging fast to Christina, with screams and
struggles.  To the lady's promise of coming to see her she replied
and, receiving no response to this request, she
burst out
and she made a dart at the nearest
youth, who happened to be Ebbo
said the perplexed Grethel
said the spoilt cloister pet, clinging
tight to Ebbo
said her father, as she still resisted
Thereat Ebbo shook off the little grasping fingers, almost as if they had
belonged to a noxious insect
He might talk with
scholarly contempt of the new race of Bohemian impostors; but there was
no forgetting that sentence.  And in like manner, though his
grandmother's allegation that his mother had been bent on captivating Sir
Kasimir in that single interview at Adlerstein, had always seemed to him
the most preposterous of all Kunigunde's forms of outrage, the
recollection would recur to him; and he could have found it in his heart
to wish that his mother had never heard of the old lady's designs as to
the oubliette.  He did most sincerely wish Master Gottfried had never let
Wildschloss know of the mode in which his life had been saved.  Yet,
while it would have seemed to him profane to breathe even to Friedel the
true secret of his repugnance to this meddlesome kinsman, it was
absolutely impossible to avoid his most distasteful authority and
patronage.

And the mother herself was gently, thankfully happy and unsuspicious,
basking in the tender home affection of which she had so long been
deprived, proud of her sons, and, though anxious as to Ebbo's decision,
with a quiet trust in his foundation of principle, and above all trusting
to prayer
ONE summer evening, when shooting at a bird on a pole was in full
exercise in the tilt-yard, the sports were interrupted by a message from
the Provost that a harbinger had brought tidings that the Imperial court
was within a day's journey.

All was preparation.  Fresh sand had to be strewn on the arena.  New
tapestry hangings were to deck the galleries, the houses and balconies to
be brave with drapery, the fountain in the market-place was to play Rhine
wine, all Ulm was astir to do honour to itself and to the Kaisar, and
Ebbo stood amid all the bustle, drawing lines in the sand with the stock
of his arblast, subject to all that oppressive self-magnification so
frequent in early youth, and which made it seem to him as if the Kaisar
and the King of the Romans were coming to Ulm with the mere purpose of
destroying his independence, and as if the eyes of all Germany were
watching for his humiliation
suddenly exclaimed Friedel
said Ebbo
returned Sir Kasimir
interrupted Ebbo
added Friedel
said Ebbo
asked Wildschloss
said Friedel
muttered Ebbo
burst out Friedel
shouted Ebbo
cried Wildschloss, with despair on his face unseen by
the boys, for Friedel had hidden his eyes, and Ebbo was straining his
with the intense gaze of horror.  He had carried his glance downwards,
following the 380 feet fall that must be the lot of the adventurer.  Then
looking up again he shouted
cried Wildschloss, grasping Ebbo's arm
said Wildschloss
added Friedel, after a breathless space
said Wildschloss
said Ebbo
said Wildschloss
Their coming was well timed, for a small door at the foot of the tower
was just opening to give exit to a very tall knight, in one of those
short Spanish cloaks the collar of which could be raised so as to conceal
the face.  He looked to the right and left, and had one hand raised to
put up the collar when he recognized Sir Kasimir, and, holding out both
hands, exclaimed
gravely returned Sir Kasimir
asked Wildschloss
laughed his highness
said the knight
said Maximilian, as
Friedmund stepped back, putting forward Eberhard, whose bright, lively
smile of interest and admiration had been the cause of his cousin's
mistake.  They would have doffed their caps and bent the knee, but were
hastily checked by Maximilian
Then, familiarly taking Sir Kasimir's arm, he
walked on, saying
said the king, turning sharp round on the twins
enthusiastically exclaimed Ebbo
said Maximilian, smiling
exclaimed Ebbo; then, thinking he
had spoken foolishly, he coloured
good-humouredly asked the king
said Friedel, modestly
added Ebbo, perceiving his auditor's
interest
taking off his cap
so as to show a feather rather the worse for wear, and sheltered behind a
fresher one
said Friedel
said the king
he graciously added, and Ebbo gave a ready bow of
acquiescence
said the king, as after their dismissal he walked on with Sir
Kasimir
said
Wildschloss
In the meantime Ebbo and Friedel were returning home in that sort of
passion of enthusiasm that ingenuous boyhood feels when first brought
into contact with greatness or brilliant qualities.

And brilliance was the striking point in Maximilian.  The Last of the
Knights, in spite of his many defects, was, by personal qualities, and
the hereditary influence of long-descended rank, verily a king of men in
aspect and demeanour, even when most careless and simple.  He was at this
time a year or two past thirty, unusually tall, and with a form at once
majestic and full of vigour and activity; a noble, fair, though sunburnt
countenance; eyes of dark gray, almost black; long fair hair, a keen
aquiline nose, a lip only beginning to lengthen to the characteristic
Austrian feature, an expression always lofty, sometimes dreamy, and yet
at the same time full of acuteness and humour.  His abilities were of the
highest order, his purposes, especially at this period of his life, most
noble and becoming in the first prince of Christendom; and, if his life
were a failure, and his reputation unworthy of his endowments, the cause
seems to have been in great measure the bewilderment and confusion that
unusual gifts sometimes cause to their possessor, whose sight their
conflicting illumination dazzles so as to impair his steadiness of aim,
while their contending gleams light him into various directions, so that
one object is deserted for another ere its completion.  Thus Maximilian
cuts a figure in history far inferior to that made by his grandson,
Charles V., whom he nevertheless excelled in every personal quality,
except the most needful of all, force of character; and, in like manner,
his remote descendant, the narrow-minded Ferdinand of Styria, gained his
ends, though the able and brilliant Joseph II. was to die broken-hearted,
calling his reign a failure and mistake.  However, such terms as these
could not be applied to Maximilian with regard to home affairs.  He has
had hard measure from those who have only regarded his vacillating
foreign policy, especially with respect to Italy--ever the temptation and
the bane of Austria; but even here much of his uncertain conduct was
owing to the unfulfilled promises of what he himself called his
and a sovereign can only justly be estimated by his domestic
policy.  The contrast of the empire before his time with the subsequent
Germany is that of chaos with order.  Since the death of Friedrich II.
the Imperial title had been a mockery, making the prince who chanced to
bear it a mere mark for the spite of his rivals; there was no centre of
justice, no appeal; everybody might make war on everybody, with the sole
preliminary of exchanging a challenge
was the acknowledged
law of the land; and, except in the free cities, and under such a happy
accident as a right-minded prince here and there, the state of Germany
seems to have been rather worse than that of Scotland from Bruce to the
union of the Crowns.  Under Maximilian, the Diet became an effective
council, fist-right was abolished, independent robber-lords put down,
civilization began to effect an entrance, the system of circles was
arranged, and the empire again became a leading power in Europe, instead
of a mere vortex of disorder and misrule.  Never would Charles V. have
held the position he occupied had he come after an ordinary man, instead
of after an able and sagacious reformer like that Maximilian who is
popularly regarded as a fantastic caricature of a knight-errant, marred
by avarice and weakness of purpose.

At the juncture of which we are writing, none of Maximilian's less worthy
qualities had appeared; he had not been rendered shifty and unscrupulous
by difficulties and disappointments in money matters, and had not found
it impossible to keep many of the promises he had given in all good
faith.  He stood forth as the hope of Germany, in salient contrast to the
feeble and avaricious father, who was felt to be the only obstacle in the
way of his noble designs of establishing peace and good discipline in the
empire, and conducting a general crusade against the Turks, whose
progress was the most threatening peril of Christendom.  His fame was, of
course, frequently discussed among the citizens, with whom he was very
popular, not only from his ease and freedom of manner, but because his
graceful tastes, his love of painting, sculpture, architecture, and the
mechanical turn which made him an improver of fire-arms and a patron of
painting and engraving, rendered their society more agreeable to him than
that of his dull, barbarous nobility.  Ebbo had heard so much of the
perfections of the King of the Romans as to be prepared to hate him; but
the boy, as we have seen, was of a generous, sensitive nature, peculiarly
prone to enthusiastic impressions of veneration; and Maximilian's
high-spirited manhood, personal fascination, and individual kindness had
so entirely taken him by surprise, that he talked of him all the evening
in a more fervid manner than did even Friedel, though both could scarcely
rest for their anticipations of seeing him on the morrow in the full
state of his entry.

Richly clad, and mounted on cream-coloured steeds, nearly as much alike
as themselves, the twins were a pleasant sight for a proud mother's eyes,
as they rode out to take their place in the procession that was to
welcome the royal guests.  Master Sorel, in ample gown, richly furred,
with medal and chain of office, likewise went forth as Guildmaster; and
Christina, with smiling lips and liquid eyes, recollected the days when
to see him in such array was her keenest pleasure, and the utmost
splendour her fancy could depict.

Arrayed, as her sons loved to see her, in black velvet, and with
pearl-bordered cap, Christina sat by her aunt in the tapestried balcony,
and between them stood or sat little Thekla von Adlerstein Wildschloss,
whose father had entrusted her to their care, to see the procession pass
by.  A rich Eastern carpet, of gorgeous colouring, covered the upper
balustrade, over which they leant, in somewhat close quarters with the
scarlet-bodiced dames of the opposite house, but with ample space for
sight up and down the rows of smiling expectants at each balcony, or
window, equally gay with hangings, while the bells of all the churches
clashed forth their gayest chimes, and fitful bursts of music were borne
upon the breeze.  Little Thekla danced in the narrow space for very glee,
and wondered why any one should live in a cloister when the world was so
wide and so fair.  And Dame Johanna tried to say something pious of
worldly temptations, and the cloister shelter; but Thekla interrupted
her, and, clinging to Christina, exclaimed
On they came--stout lanzknechts first, the city guard with steel helmets
unadorned, buff suits, and bearing either harquebuses, halberts, or those
handsome but terrible weapons, morning stars.  Then followed guild after
guild, each preceded by the banner bearing its homely emblem--the cauldron
of the smiths, the hose of the clothiers, the helmet of the armourers,
the bason of the barbers, the boot of the sutors; even the sausage of the
cooks, and the shoe of the shoeblacks, were re-presented, as by men who
gloried in the calling in which they did life's duty and task.

First in each of these bands marched the prentices, stout, broad,
flat-faced lads, from twenty to fourteen years of age, with hair like tow
hanging from under their blue caps, staves in their hands, and knives at
their girdles.  Behind them came the journeymen, in leathern jerkins and
steel caps, and armed with halberts or cross-bows; men of all ages, from
sixty to one or two and twenty, and many of the younger ones with foreign
countenances and garb betokening that they were strangers spending part
of their wandering years in studying the Ulm fashions of their craft.
Each trade showed a large array of these juniors; but the masters who
came behind were comparatively few, mostly elderly, long-gowned,
gold-chained personages, with a weight of solid dignity on their wise
brows--men who respected themselves, made others respect them, and kept
their city a peaceful, well-ordered haven, while storms raged in the
realm beyond--men too who had raised to the glory of their God a temple,
not indeed fulfilling the original design, but a noble effort, and grand
monument of burgher devotion.

Then came the ragged regiment of scholars, wild lads from every part of
Germany and Switzerland, some wan and pinched with hardship and
privation, others sturdy, selfish rogues, evidently well able to take
care of themselves.  There were many rude, tyrannical-looking lads among
the older lads; and, though here and there a studious, earnest face might
be remarked, the prospect of Germany's future priests and teachers was
not encouraging.  And what a searching ordeal was awaiting those careless
lads when the voice of one, as yet still a student, should ring through
Germany!

Contrasting with these ill-kempt pupils marched the grave professors and
teachers, in square ecclesiastic caps and long gowns, whose colours
marked their degrees and the Universities that had conferred them--some
thin, some portly, some jocund, others dreamy; some observing all the
humours around, others still intent on Aristotelian ethics; all men of
high fame, with doctor at the beginning of their names, and "or" or "us"
at the close of them.  After them rode the magistracy, a burgomaster from
each guild, and the Herr Provost himself--as great a potentate within his
own walls as the Doge of Venice or of Genoa, or perhaps greater, because
less jealously hampered.  In this dignified group was Uncle Gottfried, by
complacent nod and smile acknowledging his good wife and niece, who
indeed had received many a previous glance and bow from friends passing
beneath.  But Master Sorel was no new spectacle in a civic procession,
and the sight of him was only a pleasant fillip to the excitement of his
ladies.

Here was jingling of spurs and trampling of horses; heraldic achievements
showed upon the banners, round which rode the mail-clad retainers of
country nobles who had mustered to meet their lords.  Then, with still
more of clank and tramp, rode a bright-faced troop of lads, with
feathered caps and gay mantles.  Young Count Rudiger looked up with
courteous salutation; and just behind him, with smiling lips and upraised
faces, were the pair whose dark eyes, dark hair, and slender forms
rendered them conspicuous among the fair Teutonic youth.  Each cap was
taken off and waved, and each pair of lustrous eyes glanced up pleasure
and exultation at the sight of the lovely
And she?  The
pageant was well-nigh over to her, save for heartily agreeing with Aunt
Johanna that there was not a young noble of them all to compare with the
twin Barons of Adlerstein!  However, she knew she should be called to
account if she did not look well at
besides, Thekla
was shrieking with delight at the sight of her father, tall and splendid
on his mighty black charger, with a smile for his child, and for the lady
a bow so low and deferential that it was evidently remarked by those at
whose approach every lady in the balconies was rising, every head in the
street was bared.

A tall, thin, shrivelled, but exceedingly stately old man on a gray horse
was in the centre.  Clad in a purple velvet mantle, and bowing as he
went, he looked truly the Kaisar, to whom stately courtesy was second
nature.  On one side, in black and gold, with the jewel of the Golden
Fleece on his breast, rode Maximilian, responding gracefully to the
salutations of the people, but his keen gray eye roving in search of the
object of Sir Kasimir's salute, and lighting on Christina with such a
rapid, amused glance of discovery that, in her confusion, she missed what
excited Dame Johanna's rapturous admiration--the handsome boy on the
Emperor's other side, a fair, plump lad, the young sovereign of the Low
Countries, beautiful in feature and complexion, but lacking the fire and
the loftiness that characterized his father's countenance.  The train was
closed by the Reitern of the Emperor's guard--steel-clad mercenaries who
were looked on with no friendly eyes by the few gazers in the street who
had been left behind in the general rush to keep up with the attractive
part of the show.

Pageants of elaborate mythological character impeded the imperial
progress at every stage, and it was full two hours ere the two youths
returned, heartily weary of the lengthened ceremonial, and laughing at
having actually seen the King of the Romans enduring to be conducted from
shrine to shrine in the cathedral by a large proportion of its
dignitaries.  Ebbo was sure he had caught an archly disconsolate wink!

Ebbo had to dress for the banquet spread in the town-hall.  Space was
wanting for the concourse of guests, and Master Sorel had decided that
the younger Baron should not be included in the invitation.  Friedel
pardoned him more easily than did Ebbo, who not only resented any slight
to his double, but in his fits of shy pride needed the aid of his readier
and brighter other self.  But it might not be, and Sir Kasimir and Master
Gottfried alone accompanied him, hoping that he would not look as wild as
a hawk, and would do nothing to diminish the favourable impression he had
made on the King of the Romans.

Late, according to mediaeval hours, was the return, and Ebbo spoke in a
tone of elation
he said
exclaimed Friedel, a bright glow rushing to his cheek
said Ebbo
said Wildschloss
said Ebbo
said Friedel
said Ebbo, gloomily
said Wildschloss
said Ebbo
said Christina, anxious to chase the cloud
from his brow.

But it was a deep haul, for the avaricious Friedrich IV. made exorbitant
charges for the knighting his young nobles; and Ebbo soon saw that the
improvements at home must suffer for the honours that would have been so
much better won than bought
began
Wildschloss
interrupted Ebbo, lashed up to hot indignation
said Master Gottfried, gravely
The mother looked anxiously at Ebbo.  He bent his head with rising
colour, and said
added Friedel
cried his brother
said Master Sorel
said Friedel, gravely
said
Wildschloss
cried Ebbo, when he had latched the door of the room
he shared with his brother
exclaimed Friedel
said Ebbo
said Friedel, with
strange yearnings in his breast
he added, standing
in the window, and gazing pensively into the summer sky
Nurtured in mountain solitude, on romance transmitted through the pure
medium of his mother's mind, and his spirit untainted by contact with the
world, Friedmund von Adlerstein looked on chivalry with the temper of a
Percival or Galahad, and regarded it with a sacred awe.  Eberhard, though
treating it more as a matter of business, was like enough to his brother
to enter into the force of the vows they were about to make; and if the
young Barons of Adlerstein did not perform the night-watch over their
armour, yet they kept a vigil that impressed their own minds as deeply,
and in early morn they went to confession and mass ere the gay parts of
the city were astir
said Master Sorel, as he saw the brothers' grave, earnest
looks
said Christina
It was even so.  If the sense that he was the last veritable _free_ lord
of Adlerstein rushed over Ebbo, he was, on the other hand, overmastered
by the kingliness of Friedrich and Maximilian, and was aware that this
submission, while depriving him of little or no actual power, brought him
into relations with the civilized world, and opened to him paths of true
honour.  So the ceremonies were gone through, his oath of allegiance was
made, investiture was granted to him by the delivery of a sword, and both
he and Friedel were dubbed knights.  Then they shared another banquet,
where, as away from the Junkern and among elder men, Ebbo was happier
than the day before.  Some of the knights seemed to him as rude and
ignorant as the Schneiderlein, but no one talked to him nor observed his
manners, and he could listen to conversation on war and policy such as
interested him far more than the subjects affected by youths a little
older than himself.  Their lonely life and training had rendered the
minds of the brothers as much in advance of their fellows as they were
behind them in knowledge of the world.

The crass obtuseness of most of the nobility made it a relief to return
to the usual habits of the Sorel household when the court had left Ulm.
Friedmund, anxious to prove that his new honours were not to alter his
home demeanour, was drawing on a block of wood from a tinted pen-and-ink
sketch; Ebbo was deeply engaged with a newly-acquired copy of Virgil; and
their mother was embroidering some draperies for the long-neglected
castle chapel,--all sitting, as Master Gottfried loved to have them, in
his studio, whence he had a few moments before been called away, when, as
the door slowly opened, a voice was heard that made both lads start and
rise
And
Maximilian entered in a simple riding-dress, attended by Master
Gottfried, and by Sir Kasimir of Adlerstein Wildschloss.

Christina would fain have slipped out unperceived, but the king was
already removing his cap from his fair curling locks, and bending his
head as he said
said Christina, bending low
added Maximilian, smiling
he added, in
that tongue
readily answered Ebbo, in
Latin
laughed the king
said Gottfried, himself
almost regretting the lad's avocation
quoth Maximilian
as Friedel coloured deeper at
the sense that Ebbo was ashamed of him
For Maximilian had a passion for composition, and chiefly for
autobiography, and his head was full of that curious performance, _Der
Weisse Konig_, which occupied many of the leisure moments of his life,
being dictated to his former writing-master, Marcus Sauerwein.  He had
already designed the portrayal of his father as the old white king, and
himself as the young white king, in a series of woodcuts illustrating the
narrative which culminated in the one romance of his life, his brief
happy marriage with Mary of Burgundy; and he continued eagerly to talk to
Master Gottfried about the mystery of graving, and the various scenes in
which he wished to depict himself learning languages from native
speakers--Czech from a peasant with a basket of eggs, English from the
exiles at the Burgundian court, who had also taught him the use of the
longbow, building from architects and masons, painting from artists, and,
more imaginatively, astrology from a wonderful flaming sphere in the sky,
and the black art from a witch inspired by a long-tailed demon perched on
her shoulder.  No doubt "the young white king" made an exceedingly
prominent figure in the discourse, but it was so quaint and so brilliant
that it did not need the charm of royal condescension to entrance the
young knights, who stood silent auditors.  Ebbo at least was convinced
that no species of knowledge or skill was viewed by his kaisarly kingship
as beneath his dignity; but still he feared Friedel's being seized upon
to be as prime illustrator to the royal autobiography--a lot to which,
with all his devotion to Maximilian, he could hardly have consigned his
brother, in the certainty that the jeers of the ruder nobles would pursue
the craftsman baron.

However, for the present, Maximilian was keen enough to see that the
boy's mechanical skill was not as yet equal to his genius; so he only
encouraged him to practise, adding that he heard there was a rare lad,
one Durer, at Nuremburg, whose productions were already wonderful
he asked
said Kasimir
said Maximilian, examining it
The brothers kissed his hand, and he descended the steps from the hall
door.  Ere he had gone far, he turned round upon Sir Kasimir with a merry
smile
asked Wildschloss
said the king
EBBO trusted that his kinsman of Wildschloss was safe gone with the
Court, and his temper smoothed and his spirits rose in proportion while
preparations for a return to Adlerstein were being completed--preparations
by which the burgher lady might hope to render the castle far more
habitable, not to say baronial, than it had ever been.

The lady herself felt thankful that her stay at Ulm had turned out well
beyond all anticipations in the excellent understanding between her uncle
and her sons, and still more in Ebbo's full submission and personal
loyalty towards the imperial family.  The die was cast, and the first
step had been taken towards rendering the Adlerstein family the peaceful,
honourable nobles she had always longed to see them.

She was one afternoon assisting her aunt in some of the duties of her
wirthschaft, when Master Gottfried entered the apartment with an air of
such extreme complacency that both turned round amazed; the one
exclaiming
the
other
was the reply
cried Hausfrau Johanna with delight
said Master Gottfried
exclaimed Johanna
Poor Christina had sat all this time with drooping head and clasped
hands, a tear stealing down as the formal terms of the treaty sent her
spirit back to the urgent, pleading, imperious voice that had said
and as she glanced at the ring
that had lain on that broad palm, she felt as if her sixteen cheerful
years had been an injury to her husband in his nameless bloody grave.
But protection was so needful in those rude ages, and second marriages so
frequent, that reluctance was counted as weakness.  She knew her uncle
and aunt would never believe that aught but compulsion had bound her to
the rude outlaw, and her habit of submission was so strong that, only
when her aunt was actually rising to go and consult her gossip, she found
breath to falter
said Christina, raising her eyes
said the old burgomaster with
displeasure
she implored
exclaimed Master Gottfried
put in the aunt
continued Sorel
murmured Christina, almost to herself, but her
aunt caught the word
exclaimed Christina, with crimson cheek and uplifted head
returned Gottfried in a conciliatory tone
exclaimed Johanna
said Christina, who had rallied a
little
implored Christina
She made her way to her own chamber, there to weep and flutter.  Marriage
was a matter of such high contract between families that the parties
themselves had usually no voice in the matter, and only the widowed had
any chance of a personal choice; nor was this always accorded in the case
of females, who remained at the disposal of their relatives.  Good
substantial wedded affection was not lacking, but romantic love was
thought an unnecessary preliminary, and found a vent in extravagant
adoration, not always in reputable quarters.  Obedience first to the
father, then to the husband, was the first requisite; love might shift
for itself; and the fair widow of Adlerstein, telling her beads in sheer
perplexity, knew not whether her strong repugnance to this marriage and
warm sympathy with her son Ebbo were not an act of rebellion.  Yet each
moment did her husband rise before her mind more vividly, with his rugged
looks, his warm, tender heart, his dawnings of comprehension, his
generous forbearance and reverential love--the love of her youth--to be
equalled by no other.  The accomplished courtier and polished man of the
world might be his superior, but she loathed the superiority, since it
was to her husband.  Might not his one chosen dove keep heart-whole for
him to the last?  She recollected that coarsest, cruellest reproach of
all that her mother-in-law had been wont to fling at her,--that she, the
recent widow, the new-made mother of Eberhard's babes, in her grief, her
terror, and her weakness had sought to captivate this suitor by her
blandishments.  The taunt seemed justified, and her cheeks burned with
absolute shame
and she
started as if at Eberhard's foot-step; then smiled, recollecting that
Ebbo had his father's tread.  But her husband had been too much in awe of
her to enter with that hasty agitated step and exclamation
said Ebbo, dashing his cap on the ground
said Friedel
said Ebbo
asked Friedel, blushing to the ears, for
the boy was shy as a maiden
he
added, throwing himself on his knees beside her, his arm round her waist,
his cheek on her lap, and his eyes raised to hers.

She bent down to kiss him
Ebbo checked his hasty march to put his hand on her chair and kiss her
brow
said Friedel
she answered
growled Ebbo
continued Christina
said Christina
Ebbo was wrought on to promise not to attack the burgomaster on the
subject, but he was moody and silent, and Master Gottfried let him alone,
considering his gloom as another proof of his need of fatherly authority,
and as a peace-lover forbearing to provoke his fiery spirit.

But when Sir Kasimir's visit was imminent, and Christina had refused to
make the change in her dress by which a young widow was considered to lay
herself open to another courtship, Master Gottfried called the twins
apart
he said
said Ebbo
Master Gottfried smiled
he answered
said Master Gottfried
rejoined the calmer Friedel
said Master Gottfried
rejoined Ebbo
Friedel's unselfishness might have been startled, but Ebbo boldly
answered
said Friedel, thoughtfully
said Ebbo, bluntly
good-humouredly answered Gottfried
said Ebbo
asked Master Gottfried, moved more than by all
that had gone before
said Ebbo
said his uncle, delighted
Friedel looked as if he could bear it, and Eberhard said
sighed Master Gottfried
The Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss, unprepared for the opposition that
awaited him, was riding down the street equipped point device, and with a
goodly train of followers, in brilliant suits.  Private wooing did not
enter into the honest ideas of the burghers, and the suitor was ushered
into the full family assembly, where Christina rose and came forward a
few steps to meet him, curtseying as low as he bowed, as he said
murmured Ebbo to his brother, as the knight and lady seated
themselves in full view
Wildschloss did not talk like a young wooer; such days were over for
both; but he spoke as a grave and honourable man, deeply penetrated with
true esteem and affection.  He said that at their first meeting he had
been struck with her sweetness and discretion, and would soon after have
endeavoured to release her from her durance, but that he was bound by the
contract already made with the Trautbachs, who were dangerous neighbours
to Wildschloss.  He had delayed his distasteful marriage as long as
possible, and it had caused him nothing but trouble and strife; his
children would not live, and Thekla, the only survivor, was, as his sole
heiress, a mark for the cupidity of her uncle, the Count of Trautbach,
and his almost savage son Lassla; while the right to the Wildschloss
barony would become so doubtful between her and Ebbo, as heir of the male
line, that strife and bloodshed would be well-nigh inevitable.  These
causes made it almost imperative that he should re-marry, and his own
strong preference and regard for little Thekla directed his wishes
towards the Freiherrinn von Adlerstein.  He backed his suit with courtly
compliments, as well as with representations of his child's need of a
mother's training, and the twins' equal want of fatherly guidance,
dilating on the benefits he could confer on them.

Christina felt his kindness, and had full trust in his intentions.  "No"
was a difficult syllable to her, but she had that within her which could
not accept him; and she firmly told him that she was too much bound to
both her Eberhards.  But there was no daunting him, nor preventing her
uncle and aunt from encouraging him.  He professed that he would wait,
and give her time to consider; and though she reiterated that
consideration would not change her mind, Master Gottfried came forward to
thank him, and express his confidence of bringing her to reason
said Ebbo, with flashing eyes, and low but resentful
voice
He held himself upright as a dart, but was infinitely annoyed by the
little mocking bow and smile that he received in return, as Sir Kasimir,
with his long mantle, swept out of the apartment, attended by Master
Gottfried
said the boy, standing in the middle of the floor as
his uncle returned
quietly replied Master Gottfried
said Ebbo
And at
her nod of assent the house-father looked deeply grieved, the
house-mother began to clamour about ingratitude
answered
Ebbo, fiercely
said his mother, rising
said her uncle
said Christina
said Master Gottfried
said Friedel, hastily
said Ebbo, sternly
half groaned Master Gottfried
he added, half relenting as he looked at the
gallant, earnest face, full of defiance indeed, but with a certain
wistful appealing glance at
softening the liquid
lustrous dark eye
said Ebbo, scarce appeased
said Ebbo
He said it as if he had been the Emperor reconciling himself to all the
Hanse towns in one.  Master Gottfried could scarce refrain from shrugging
his shoulders, and Hausfrau Johanna was exceedingly angry with the
petulant pride and insolence of the young noble; but, in effect, all were
too much relieved to avoid an absolute quarrel with the fiery lad to take
exception at minor matters.  The old burgher was forbearing; Christina,
who knew how much her son must have swallowed to bring him to this
concession for love of her, thought him a hero worthy of all sacrifices;
and peace-making Friedel, by his aunt's side, soon softened even her, by
some of the persuasive arguments that old dames love from gracious,
graceful, great-nephews.

And when, by and by, Master Gottfried went out to call on Sir Kasimir,
and explain how he had thought it best to yield to the hot-tempered lad,
and let the family learn how to be thankful for the goods they had
rejected, he found affairs in a state that made him doubly anxious that
the young barons should be safe on their mountain without knowing of
them.  The Trautbach family had heard of Wildschloss's designs, and they
had set abroad such injurious reports respecting the Lady of Adlerstein,
that Sir Kasimir was in the act of inditing a cartel to be sent by Count
Kaulwitz, to demand an explanation--not merely as the lady's suitor, but
as the only Adlerstein of full age.  Now, if Ebbo had heard of the
rumour, he would certainly have given the lie direct, and taken the whole
defence on himself; and it may be feared that, just as his cause might
have been, Master Gottfried's faith did not stretch to believing that it
would make his sixteen-year-old arm equal to the brutal might of Lassla
of Trautbach.  So he heartily thanked the Baron of Wildschloss, agreed
with him that the young knights were not as yet equal to the maintenance
of the cause, and went home again to watch carefully that no report
reached either of his nephews.  Nor did he breathe freely till he had
seen the little party ride safe off in the early morning, in much more
lordly guise than when they had entered the city.

As to Wildschloss and his nephew of Trautbach, in spite of their
relationship they had a sharp combat on the borders of their own estates,
in which both were severely wounded; but Sir Kasimir, with the
misericorde in his grasp, forced Lassla to retract whatever he had said
in dispraise of the Lady of Adlerstein.  Wily old Gottfried took care
that the tidings should be sent in a form that might at once move
Christina with pity and gratitude towards her champion, and convince her
sons that the adversary was too much hurt for them to attempt a fresh
challenge
THE reconciliation made Ebbo retract his hasty resolution of
relinquishing all the benefits resulting from his connection with the
Sorel family, and his mother's fortune made it possible to carry out many
changes that rendered the castle and its inmates far more prosperous in
appearance than had ever been the case before.  Christina had once again
the appliances of a _wirthschaft_, such as she felt to be the suitable
and becoming appurtenance of a right-minded Frau, gentle or simple, and
she felt so much the happier and more respectable.

A chaplain had also been secured.  The youths had insisted on his being
capable of assisting their studies, and, a good man had been found who
was fearfully learned, having studied at all possible universities, but
then failing as a teacher, because he was so dreamy and absent as to be
incapable of keeping the unruly students in order.  Jobst Schon was his
proper name, but he was translated into Jodocus Pulcher.  The chapel was
duly adorned, the hall and other chambers were fitted up with some degree
of comfort; the castle court was cleansed, the cattle sheds removed to
the rear, and the serfs were presented with seed, and offered payment in
coin if they would give their labour in fencing and clearing the
cornfield and vineyard which the barons were bent on forming on the sunny
slope of the ravine.  Poverty was over, thanks to the marriage portion,
and yet Ebbo looked less happy than in the days when there was but a bare
subsistence; and he seemed to miss the full tide of city life more than
did his brother, who, though he had enjoyed Ulm more heartily at the
time, seemed to have returned to all his mountain delights with greater
zest than ever.  At his favourite tarn, he revelled in the vast stillness
with the greater awe for having heard the hum of men, and his minstrel
dreams had derived fresh vigour from contact with the active world.  But,
as usual, he was his brother's chief stay in the vexations of a reformer.
The serfs had much rather their lord had turned out a freebooter than an
improver.  Why should they sow new seeds, when the old had sufficed their
fathers?  Work, beyond the regulated days when they scratched up the soil
of his old enclosure, was abhorrent to them.  As to his offered coin,
they needed nothing it would buy, and had rather bask in the sun or sleep
in the smoke.  A vineyard had never been heard of on Adlerstein mountain:
it was clean contrary to his forefathers' habits; and all came of the bad
drop of restless burgher blood, that could not let honest folk rest.

Ebbo stormed, not merely with words, but blows, became ashamed of his
violence, tried to atone for it by gifts and kind words, and in return
was sulkily told that he would bring more good to the village by rolling
the fiery wheel straight down hill at the wake, than by all his
new-fangled ways.  Had not Koppel and a few younger men been more open to
influence, his agricultural schemes could hardly have begun; but
Friedel's persuasions were not absolutely without success, and every rood
that was dug was achieved by his patience and perseverance.

Next came home the Graf von Schlangenwald.  He had of late inhabited his
castle in Styria, but in a fierce quarrel with some of his neighbours he
had lost his eldest son, and the pacification enforced by the King of the
Romans had so galled and infuriated him that he had deserted that part of
the country and returned to Swabia more fierce and bitter than ever.
Thenceforth began a petty border warfare such as had existed when
Christina first knew Adlerstein, but had of late died out.  The shepherd
lad came home weeping with wrath.  Three mounted Schlangenwaldern had
driven off his four best sheep, and beaten himself with their halberds,
though he was safe on Adlerstein ground.  Then a light thrown by a
Schlangenwald reiter consumed all Jobst's pile of wood.  The swine did
not come home, and were found with spears sticking in them; the great
broad-horned bull that Ebbo had brought from the pastures of Ulm vanished
from the Alp below the Gemsbock's Pass, and was known to be salted for
winter use at Schlangenwald.

Still Christina tried to persuade her sons that this might be only the
retainers' violence, and induced Ebbo to write a letter, complaining of
the outrages, but not blaming the Count, only begging that his followers
might be better restrained.  The letter was conveyed by a lay brother--no
other messenger being safe.  Ebbo had protested from the first that it
would be of no use, but he waited anxiously for the answer.

Thus it stood, when conveyed to him by a tenant of the Ruprecht
cloister
c. &amp;c. &amp;c.

And a long list of names, all connected with Schlangenwald, followed; and
a large seal, bearing the snake of Schlangenwald, was appended thereto
burst out Ebbo
exclaimed Friedel
said Friedel.

It was the only measure in their power, though Ebbo winced at it; but his
oaths were recent, and his conscience would not allow him to transgress
them by doing himself justice.  Besides, neither party could take the
castle of the other, and the only reprisals in his power would have been
on the defenceless peasants of Schlangenwald.  He must therefore lay the
whole matter before the Markgraf, who was the head of the Swabian League,
and bound to redress his wrongs.  He made his arrangements without
faltering, selecting the escort who were to accompany him, and insisting
on leaving Friedel to guard his mother and the castle.  He would not for
the world have admitted the suggestion that the counsel and introduction
of Adlerstein Wildschloss would have been exceedingly useful to him.

Poor Christina!  It was a great deal too like that former departure, and
her heart was heavy within her!  Friedel was equally unhappy at letting
his brother go without him, but it was quite necessary that he and the
few armed men who remained should show themselves at all points open to
the enemy in the course of the day, lest the Freiherr's absence should be
remarked.  He did his best to cheer his mother, by reminding her that
Ebbo was not likely to be taken at unawares as their father had been; and
he shared the prayers and chapel services, in which she poured out her
anxiety.

The blue banner came safe up the Pass again, but Wurtemburg had been
formally civil to the young Freiherr; but he had laughed at the fend
letter as a mere old-fashioned habit of Schangenwald's that it was better
not to notice, and he evidently regarded the stealing of a bull or the
misusing of a serf as far too petty a matter for his attention.  It was
as if a judge had been called by a crying child to settle a nursery
quarrel.  He told Ebbo that, being a free Baron of the empire, he must
keep his bounds respected; he was free to take and hang any spoiler he
could catch, but his bulls were his own affair: the League was not for
such gear.

And a knight who had ridden out of Stuttgard with Ebbo had told him that
it was no wonder that this had been his reception, for not only was
Schlangenwald an old intimate of the Markgraf, but Swabia was claimed as
a fief of Wurtemburg, so that Ebbo's direct homage to the Emperor,
without the interposition of the Markgraf, had made him no object of
favour
asked Ebbo
said
the knight
said Ebbo, haughtily.  And, sure that he should
receive the same advice, he decided against turning aside to consult his
uncle at Ulm, and returned home in a mood that rejoiced Heinz and Hatto
with hopes of the old days, while it filled his mother with dreary dismay
and apprehension
said Ebbo
The "next time" was when the first winter cold was setting in.  A party
of reitern came to harry an outlying field, where Ulrich had raised a
scanty crop of rye.  Tidings reached the castle in such good time that
the two brothers, with Heinz, the two Ulm grooms, Koppel, and a troop of
serfs, fell on the marauders before they had effected much damage, and
while some remained to trample out the fire, the rest pursued the enemy
even to the village of Schlangenwald
cried Heinz, hot with victory
But a host of half-naked beings rushed out shrieking about sick children,
bed-ridden grandmothers, and crippled fathers, and falling on their
knees, with their hands stretched out to the young barons.  Ebbo turned
away his head with hot tears in his eyes
said Friedel
and Friedel sprang to withhold
Koppel, who had lighted a bundle of dried fern ready to thrust into the
thatch
said Ebbo, with the same impulse
The serfs flung themselves before him in transports of gratitude, but he
turned hastily away and strode up the mountain, his cheek glowing as he
remembered, too late, that his defiance would be scoffed at, as a boy's
vaunt.  By and by he arrived at the hamlet, where he found a prisoner, a
scowling, abject fellow, already well beaten, and now held by two serfs
said old Ulrich
said Ebbo, about to descend the
pass, as if hastening from the execution of a wolf taken in a gin
asked Friedel.

The peasants looked as if this were one of Sir Friedel's unaccountable
fancies.  Ebbo paused, frowned, and muttered, but seeing a move as if to
drag the wretch towards the stunted bush overhanging an abyss, he
shouted
The serfs were much disgusted
remonstrated Heinz
added Koppel
said Ebbo, turning sharply
growled Koppel
grumbled Ulrich
Like mutterings ensued, the purport of which was caught by Friedel, and
made him say to Ebbo, who would again have escaped the disagreeableness
of the scene
Ebbo yielded, and began to pace the scanty area of the flat rock where
the need-fire was wont to blaze.  After a time he exclaimed
said Friedel, but with labouring breath that showed how terrible
was the prospect to his imaginative soul not inured to death-scenes like
those of his fellows.

Just then a mocking laugh broke forth
cried Ebbo, looking keenly
down
cried Ebbo, leaping from the rock
in time to see the disgusting draught held to the lips of the captive,
whose hands were twisted back and bound with cruel tightness; for the
German boor, once roused from his lazy good-nature, was doubly savage
from stolidity
cried Ebbo, striking right and left with the back of his
sword, among the serfs, and then cutting the thong that was eating into
the prisoner's flesh, while Friedel caught up a wooden bowl, filled it
with pure water, and offered it to the captive, who drank deeply
said Ebbo
A low curse against things in general was the only answer
continued Ebbo, in hopes of extracting some
excuse for pardon; but the prisoner only hung his head as one stupefied,
brutally indifferent and hardened against the mere trouble of answering.
Not another word could be extracted, and Ebbo's position was very
uncomfortable, keeping guard over his condemned felon, with the sulky
peasants herding round, in fear of being balked of their prey; and the
reluctance growing on him every moment to taking life in cold blood.
Right of life and death was a heavy burden to a youth under seventeen,
unless he had been thoughtless and reckless, and from this Ebbo had been
prevented by his peculiar life.  The lion cub had never tasted blood.

The situation was prolonged beyond expectation.

Many a time had the brothers paced their platform of rock, the criminal
had fallen into a dose, and women and boys were murmuring that they must
call home their kine and goats, and it was a shame to debar them of the
sight of the hanging, long before Hans came back between crying and
stammering, to say that Father Jodocus had fallen into so deep a study
over his book, that he only muttered
then went into another
musing fit, whence no one could rouse him to do more than say
said Friedel
was the answer
stirring
him with his foot
said the man
said Ebbo
growled the fellow.

A murmur, followed by a wrathful shout, rose among the villagers
thundered Ebbo, with flashing eyes
The prisoner was prompt to gather himself up and rush like a hunted
animal to the path, at the entrance of which stood both twins, with drawn
swords, to defend the escape.  Of course no one ventured to follow; and
surly discontented murmurs were the sole result as the peasants
dispersed.  Ebbo, sheathing his sword, and putting his arm into his
brother's, said
said Friedel, smiling
said Ebbo
And even his mother's satisfaction did not greatly comfort Ebbo, for he
was of the age to feel more ashamed of a solecism than a crime.
Christina perceived that this was one of his most critical periods of
life, baited as he was by the enemy of his race, and feeling all the
disadvantages which heart and conscience gave him in dealing with a man
who had neither, at a time when public opinion was always with the most
masterful.  The necessity of arming his retainers and having fighting men
as a guard were additional temptations to hereditary habits of violence;
and that so proud and fiery a nature as his should never become involved
in them was almost beyond hope.  Even present danger seemed more around
than ever before.  The estate was almost in a state of siege, and
Christina never saw her sons quit the castle without thinking of their
father's fate, and passing into the chapel to entreat for their return
unscathed in body or soul.  The snow, which she had so often hailed as a
friend, was never more welcome than this winter; not merely as shutting
the enemy out, and her sons in, but as cutting off all danger of a visit
from her suitor, who would now come armed with his late sufferings in her
behalf; and, moreover, with all the urgent need of a wise and respected
head and protector for her sons.  Yet the more evident the expediency
became, the greater grew her distaste.

Still the lonely life weighed heavily on Ebbo.  Light-hearted Friedel was
ever busy and happy, were he chasing the grim winter game--the bear and
wolf--with his brother, fencing in the hall, learning Greek with the
chaplain, reading or singing to his mother, or carving graceful angel
forms to adorn the chapel.  Or he could at all times soar into a minstrel
dream of pure chivalrous semi-allegorical romance, sometimes told over
the glowing embers to his mother and brother.  All that came to Friedel
was joy, from battling with the bear on a frozen rock, to persuading rude
little Hans to come to the Frau Freiherrinn to learn his Paternoster.
But the elder twin might hunt, might fence, might smile or kindle at his
brother's lay, but ever with a restless gloom on him, a doubt of the
future which made him impatient of the present, and led to a sharpness
and hastiness of manner that broke forth in anger at slight offences
Friedel heard him
muttering even in sleep, and more than once listened to it as Ebbo leant
over the battlements--as he looked over the white world to the gray mist
above the city of Ulm
argued Friedel
answered Ebbo
said Friedel, glancing from the sparkling white slopes to the pure
blue above
said Ebbo, impatiently
The snow melted, the torrent became a flood, then contracted itself, but
was still a broad stream, when one spring afternoon Ebbo showed his
brother some wains making for the ford, adding
He blew a blast on his horn, and added
and Friedel pointed to the thicket to the westward of the meadow
around the stream, where the beech trees were budding, but not yet
forming a full mass of verdure
cried Ebbo, and again raising the bugle to his lips, he
sent forth three notes well known as a call to arms.  Their echoes came
back from the rocks, followed instantly by lusty jodels, and the brothers
rushed into the hall to take down their light head-pieces and corslets,
answering in haste their mother's startled questions, by telling of the
endangered travellers, and the Schlangenwald ambush.  She looked white
and trembled, but said no word to hinder them; only as she clasped
Friedel's corslet, she entreated them to take fuller armour
said Ebbo
quoth Heinz
growled Koppel; but the words
were lost in Ebbo's loud commands to the men, as Friedel and Hatto handed
down the weapons to them.

The convoy had by this time halted, evidently to try the ford.  A
horseman crossed, and found it practicable, for a waggon proceeded to
make the attempt
said Ebbo, who was standing on the narrow ledge
between the castle and the precipitous path leading to the meadow
The two young knights, so goodly in their bright steel, knelt for their
mother's blessing, and then sprang like chamois down the ivy-twined
steep, followed by their men, and were lost to sight among the bushes and
rocks.  Yet even while her frame quivered with fear, her heart swelled at
the thought what a gulf there was between these days and those when she
had hidden her face in despair, while Ermentrude watched the Debateable
Ford.

She watched now in suspense, indeed, but with exultation instead of
shame, as two waggons safely crossed; but the third stuck fast, and
presently turned over in the stream, impelled sideways by the efforts of
the struggling horses.  Then, amid endeavours to disentangle the animals
and succour the driver, the travellers were attacked by a party of armed
men, who dashed out of the beechwood, and fell on the main body of the
waggons, which were waiting on the bit of bare shingly soil that lay
between the new and old channels.  A wild melee was all that Christina
could see--weapons raised, horses starting, men rushing from the river,
while the clang and the shout rose even to the castle.

Hark!  Out rings the clear call
There they
speed over the meadow, the two slender forms with glancing helms!  O
overrun not the followers, rush not into needless danger!  There is
Koppel almost up with them with his big axe--Heinz's broad shoulders near.
Heaven strike with them!  Visit not their forefathers' sin on those pure
spirits.  Some are flying.  Some one has fallen!  O heavens! on which
side?  Ah! it is into the Schlangenwald woods that the fugitives direct
their flight.  Three--four--the whole troop pursued!  Go not too far!  Run
not into needless risk!  Your work is done, and gallantly.  Well done,
young knights of Adlerstein!  Which of you is it that stands pointing out
safe standing-ground for the men that are raising the waggon?  Which of
you is it who stands in converse with a burgher form?  Thanks and
blessings! the lads are safe, and full knightly hath been their first
emprise.

A quarter of an hour later, a gay step mounted the ascent, and Friedel's
bright face laughed from his helmet
So away went the light-hearted boy, and by and by Christina saw the red
watch-fire as she gazed from her turret window.  She would have been
pleased to see how, marshalled by a merchant who had crossed the desert
from Egypt to Palestine, the waggons were ranged in a circle, and the
watches told off, while the food and drink were carefully portioned out.

Freiherr Ebbo, on his own ground, as champion and host, was far more at
ease than in the city, and became very friendly with the merchants and
architect as they sat round the bright fire, conversing, or at times
challenging the mountain echoes by songs to the sound of Friedel's lute.
When the stars grew bright, most lay down to sleep in the waggons, while
others watched, pacing up and down till Karl's waggon should be over the
mountain, and the vigil was relieved.

No disturbance took place, and at sunrise a hasty meal was partaken of,
and the work of crossing the river was set in hand
said Moritz, the architect
asked Ebbo
The brothers caught at the idea, and the merchants agreed that such a
bridge would be an inestimable boon to all traffickers between Constance,
Ulm, and Augsburg, and would attract many travellers who were scared away
by the evil fame of the Debateable Ford.  Master Moritz looked at the
stone of the mountain, pronounced it excellent material, and already
sketched the span of the arches with a view to winter torrents.  As to
the site, the best was on the firm ground above the ford; but here only
one side was Adlerstein, while on the other Ebbo claimed both banks, and
it was probable that an equally sound foundation could be obtained, only
with more cost and delay.

After this survey, the travellers took leave of the barons, promising to
write when their fellow-citizens should have been sounded as to the
bridge; and Ebbo remained in high spirits, with such brilliant purposes
that he had quite forgotten his gloomy forebodings
he said
Letters came from Ulm, saying that the guilds of mercers and wine
merchants were delighted with the project, and invited the Baron of
Adlerstein to a council at the Rathhaus.  Master Sorel begged the mother
to come with her sons to be his guest; but fearing the neighbourhood of
Sir Kasimir, she remained at home, with Heinz for her seneschal while her
sons rode to the city.  There Ebbo found that his late exploit and his
future plan had made him a person of much greater consideration than on
his last visit, and he demeaned himself with far more ease and affability
in consequence.  He had affairs on his hands too, and felt more than one
year older.

The two guilds agreed to build the bridge, and share the toll with the
Baron in return for the ground and materials; but they preferred the plan
that placed one pier on the Schlangenwald bank, and proposed to write to
the Count an offer to include him in the scheme, awarding him a share of
the profits in proportion to his contribution.  However vexed at the turn
affairs had taken, Ebbo could offer no valid objection, and was obliged
to affix his signature to the letter in company with the guildmasters.

It was despatched by the city pursuivants--

    The only men who safe might ride;
    Their errands on the border side;

and a meeting was appointed in the Rathhaus for the day of their expected
return.  The higher burghers sat on their carved chairs in the grand old
hall, the lesser magnates on benches, and Ebbo, in an elbowed seat far
too spacious for his slender proportions, met a glance from Friedel that
told him his merry brother was thinking of the frog and the ox.  The
pursuivants entered--hardy, shrewd-looking men, with the city arms decking
them wherever there was room for them
they said
demanded Moritz Schleiermacher
On being
pressed, however, it was repeated
asked Ebbo
replied the messenger
demanded Ebbo, with the paling cheek and
low voice that made his passion often seem like patience
said Master Gottfried
said the pursuivant
said Master Gottfried, while his
nephews started with amaze
replied Ebbo
asked the able Rathsherr Ulrich
said Ebbo
The whole assembly agreed that the Count could only mean to make the
absence of direct evidence about a murder committed eighteen years ago
tell in sowing distrust between the allies.  The suggestion was not worth
a thought, and it was plain that no site would be available except the
Debateable Strand.  To this, however, Ebbo's title was assailable, both
on account of his minority, as well as his father's unproved death, and
of the disputed claim to the ground.  The Rathsherr, Master Gottfried,
and others, therefore recommended deferring the work till the Baron
should be of age, when, on again tendering his allegiance, he might
obtain a distinct recognition of his marches.  But this policy did not
consort with the quick spirit of Moritz Schleiermacher, nor with the
convenience of the mercers and wine-merchants, who were constant
sufferers by the want of a bridge, and afraid of waiting four years, in
which a lad like the Baron might return to the nominal instincts of his
class, or the Braunwasser might take back the land it had given; whilst
Ebbo himself was urgent, with all the defiant fire of youth, to begin
building at once in spite of all gainsayers
said Master Sorel, gravely
said
Ebbo, with a glance of fire
sighed Master Gottfried
returned the Rathsherr
So the young knights mounted, and had ridden about half the way in
silence, when Ebbo exclaimed
and as his brother started
said Friedel, turning on him an eye that had
not only something of the brightness but of the penetration of a sunbeam
said Ebbo, gloomily
said Friedel
said Friedel
said Ebbo, hotly
said Friedel, slightly smiling
hastily returned his brother
said Ebbo
exclaimed Friedel
repeated Ebbo
returned Friedel
said Friedel, thoughtfully
said Ebbo
said Friedel
Nevertheless Ebbo was moody all the way home, but when there he devoted
himself in his most eager and winning way to his mother, telling her of
Master Gottfried's woodcuts, and Hausfrau Johanna's rheumatism, and of
all the news of the country, in especial that the Kaisar was at Lintz,
very ill with a gangrene in his leg, said to have been caused by his
habit of always kicking doors open, and that his doctors thought of
amputation, a horrible idea in the fifteenth century.  The young baron
was evidently bent on proving that no one could make his mother so happy
as he could; and he was not far wrong there.

Friedel, however, could not rest till he had followed Heinz to the
stable, and speaking over the back of the old white mare, the only other
survivor of the massacre, had asked him once more for the particulars, a
tale he was never loth to tell; but when Friedel further demanded whether
he was certain of having seen the death of his younger lord, he replied,
as if hurt
said
Heinz
said Friedel, low and mysteriously
said Friedel
roughly answered the Schneiderlein
Friedel, with his wonted good-nature, set himself to pacify the warrior
with assurances of his trust; yet while Ebbo plunged more eagerly into
plans for the bridge-building, Friedel drew more and more into his old
world of musings; and many a summer afternoon was spent by him at the
Ptarmigan's Mere, in deep communings with himself, as one revolving a
purpose.

Christina could not but observe, with a strange sense of foreboding,
that, while one son was more than ever in the lonely mountain heights,
the other was far more at the base.  Master Moritz Schleiermacher was a
constant guest at the castle, and Ebbo was much taken up with his
companionship.  He was a strong, shrewd man, still young, but with much
experience, and he knew how to adapt himself to intercourse with the
proud nobility, preserving an independent bearing, while avoiding all
that haughtiness could take umbrage at; and thus he was acquiring a
greater influence over Ebbo than was perceived by any save the watchful
mother, who began to fear lest her son was acquiring an infusion of
worldly wisdom and eagerness for gain that would indeed be a severance
between him and his brother.

If she had known the real difference that unconsciously kept her sons
apart, her heart would have ached yet more
THE stone was quarried high on the mountain, and a direct road was made
for bringing it down to the water-side.  The castle profited by the road
in accessibility, but its impregnability was so far lessened.  However,
as Ebbo said, it was to be a friendly harbour, instead of a robber crag,
and in case of need the communication could easily be destroyed.  The
blocks of stone were brought down, and wooden sheds were erected for the
workmen in the meadow.

In August, however, came tidings that, after two amputations of his
diseased limb, the Kaisar Friedrich III. had died--it was said from over
free use of melons in the fever consequent on the operation.  His death
was not likely to make much change in the government, which had of late
been left to his son.  At this time the King of the Romans (for the title
of Kaisar was conferred only by coronation by the Pope, and this
Maximilian never received) was at Innspruck collecting troops for the
deliverance of Styria and Carinthia from a horde of invading Turks.  The
Markgraf of Wurtemburg sent an intimation to all the Swabian League that
the new sovereign would be best pleased if their homage were paid to him
in his camp at the head of their armed retainers.

Here was the way of enterprise and honour open at last, and the young
barons of Adlerstein eagerly prepared for it, equipping their vassals and
sending to Ulm to take three or four men-at-arms into their pay, so as to
make up twenty lances as the contingent of Adlerstein.  It was decided
that Christina should spend the time of their absence at Ulm, whither her
sons would escort her on their way to the camp.  The last busy day was
over, and in the summer evening Christina was sitting on the castle steps
listening to Ebbo's eager talk of his plans of interesting his hero, the
King of the Romans, in his bridge, and obtaining full recognition of his
claim to the Debateable Strand, where the busy workmen could be seen far
below.

Presently Ebbo, as usual when left to himself, grew restless for want of
Friedel, and exclaiming
he set off in quest of him,
passing through the hamlet to look for him in the chapel on his way.

Not finding Friedel there, he was, however, some way up towards the tarn,
when he met his brother wearing the beamy yet awestruck look that he
often brought from the mountain height, yet with a steadfast expression
of resolute purpose on his face
said Ebbo
said Friedel, throwing his arm round his
brother's neck in their boyish fashion
said Ebbo
said Friedel
cried Ebbo
growled Ebbo
returned Friedel
said Friedel
cried Ebbo
said Friedel
Ebbo started, but resumed his former tone
said Friedel, enthusiastically
gloomily laughed Ebbo
cried Friedel
returned Ebbo, drawing him closer
said Friedel
Ebbo burst out laughing
he said
Friedel was as much mortified for the moment as his gentle nature could
be.  Then he resumed his sweet smile, saying
said Ebbo
shouted Ebbo, glad to see an object on which to vent his secret
annoyance
sullenly replied a half-clad boy
interposed Friedel
cried Ebbo
said Friedel
said the boy, coming nearer
cried Ebbo, but the boy seemed dumb
before him, and Friedel repeated the question ere he answered
Ebbo, in a transport of indignation and gratitude, thrust his hand into
his pouch, and threw the boy a handful of groschen, while Friedel gave
warm thanks, in the utmost haste, ere both brothers sprang with headlong
speed down the wild path, to take advantage of the timely intelligence.

The little council of war was speedily assembled, consisting of the
barons, their mother, Master Moritz Schleiermacher, Heinz, and Hatto.  To
bring up to the castle the workmen, their families, and the more valuable
implements, was at once decided; and Christina asked whether there would
be anything left worth defending, and whether the Schlangenwalden might
not expend their fury on the scaffold, which could be newly supplied from
the forest, the huts, which could be quickly restored, and the stones,
which could hardly be damaged.  The enemy must proceed to the camp in a
day or two, and the building would be less assailable by their return;
and, besides, it was scarcely lawful to enter on a private war when the
imperial banner was in the field
said the architect
said Ebbo
persevered the mother
said Schleiermacher
said Friedel
returned his
brother
Christina saw that remonstrance was vain.  The days of peril and violence
were coming back again; and all she could take comfort in was, that, if
not wholly right, her son was far from wholly wrong, and that with a free
heart she could pray for a blessing on him and on his arms
BY the early September sunrise the thicket beneath the pass was
sheltering the twenty well-appointed reiters of Adlerstein, each
standing, holding his horse by the bridle, ready to mount at the instant.
In their rear were the serfs and artisans, some with axes, scythes, or
ploughshares, a few with cross-bows, and Jobst and his sons with the long
blackened poles used for stirring their charcoal fires.  In advance were
Master Moritz and the two barons, the former in a stout plain steel
helmet, cuirass, and gauntlets, a sword, and those new-fashioned weapons,
pistols; the latter in full knightly armour, exactly alike, from the
gilt-spurred heel to the eagle-crested helm, and often moving restlessly
forward to watch for the enemy, though taking care not to be betrayed by
the glitter of their mail.  So long did they wait that there was even a
doubt whether it might not have been a false alarm; the boy was
vituperated, and it was proposed to despatch a spy to see whether
anything were doing at Schlangenwald.

At length a rustling and rushing were heard; then a clank of armour.
Ebbo vaulted into the saddle, and gave the word to mount; Schleiermacher,
who always fought on foot, stepped up to him
muttered Ebbo, forced, however,
to restrain himself, though with boiling blood, as the tramp of horses
shook the ground, and bright armour became visible on the further side of
the stream.

For the first time, the brothers beheld the foe of their line.  He was
seated on a clumsy black horse, and sheathed in full armour, and was
apparently a large heavy man, whose powerful proportions were becoming
unwieldy as he advanced in life.  The dragon on his crest and shield
would have made him known to the twins, even without the deadly curse
that passed the Schneiderlein's lips at the sight.  As the armed troop,
out-numbering the Adlersteiners by about a dozen, and followed by a
rabble with straw and pine brands, came forth on the meadow, the count
halted and appeared to be giving orders
began Ebbo
responded Moritz; and, chafing with impatient fury, the knight
waited while Schlangenwald rode towards the old channel of the
Braunwasser, and there, drawing his rein, and sitting like a statue in
his stirrups, he could hear him shout
and Ebbo's cream-coloured horse leapt forth, as the whole band
flashed into the sunshine from the greenwood covert
shouted Ebbo
replied the count
called Ebbo
said the count
said the count, taking his heavy lance from his
squire, closing his visor, and wheeling back his horse, so as to give
space for his career.

Ebbo did the like, while Friedel on one side, and Hierom von
Schlangenwald on the other, kept their men in array, awaiting the issue
of the strife between their leaders--the fire of seventeen against the
force of fifty-six.

They closed in full shock, with shivered lances and rearing, pawing
horses, but without damage to either.  Each drew his sword, and they were
pressing together, when Heinz, seeing a Schlangenwalder aiming with his
cross-bow, rode at him furiously, and the melee became general; shots
were fired, not only from cross-bows, but from arquebuses, and in the
throng Friedel lost sight of the main combat between his brother and the
count.

Suddenly however there was a crash, as of falling men and horses, with a
shout of victory strangely mingled with a cry of agony, and both sides
became aware that their leaders had fallen.  Each party rushed to its
fallen head.  Friedel beheld Ebbo under his struggling horse, and an
enemy dashing at his throat, and, flying to the rescue, he rode down the
assailant, striking him with his sword; and, with the instinct of driving
the foe as far as possible from his brother, he struck with a sort of
frenzy, shouting fiercely to his men, and leaping over the dry bed of the
river, rushing onward with an intoxication of ardour that would have
seemed foreign to his gentle nature, but for the impetuous desire to
protect his brother.  Their leaders down, the enemy had no one to rally
them, and, in spite of their superiority in number, gave way in confusion
before the furious onset of Adlerstein.  So soon, however, as Friedel
perceived that he had forced the enemy far back from the scene of
conflict, his anxiety for his brother returned, and, leaving the
retainers to continue the pursuit, he turned his horse.  There, on the
green meadow, lay on the one hand Ebbo's cream-coloured charger, with his
master under him, on the other the large figure of the count; and several
other prostrate forms likewise struggled on the sand and pebbles of the
strand, or on the turf
said the architect, who had turned with Friedel
cried Friedel, leaping from his horse, and
unclasping his brother's helmet
groaned a half-suffocated voice
One or two of the artisans were at hand, and with their help the dying
steed was disengaged from the rider, who could not restrain his moans,
though Friedel held him in his arms, and endeavoured to move him as
gently as possible.  It was then seen that the deep gash from the count's
sword in the chest was not the most serious injury, but that an arquebus
ball had pierced his thigh, before burying itself in the body of his
horse; and that the limb had been further crushed and wrenched by the
animal's struggles.  He was nearly unconscious, and gasped with anguish,
but, after Moritz had bathed his face and moistened his lips, as he lay
in his brother's arms, he looked up with clearer eyes, and said
Transferring Ebbo to the arms of Schleiermacher, Friedel obeyed, and
stepped towards the fallen foe.  The wrongs of Adlerstein were indeed
avenged, for the blood was welling fast from a deep thrust above the
collar-bone, and the failing, feeble hand was wandering uncertainly among
the clasps of the gorget
said Friedel, kneeling down, and in his pity for the dying
man omitting the summons to yield, he threw back the helmet, and beheld a
grizzled head and stern hard features, so embrowned by weather and
inflamed by intemperance, that even approaching death failed to blanch
them.  A scowl of malignant hate was in the eyes, and there was a thrill
of angry wonder as they fell on the lad's face
he muttered, unheard by
Friedel, who, intent on the thought that had recurred to him with greater
vividness than ever, was again filling Ebbo's helmet with water.  He
refreshed the dying man's face with it, held it to his lips, and said
replied Schlangenwald, fixing his look on the
eager countenance of the youth, while his hand, with a dying man's
nervous agitation, was fumbling at his belt
said the count, speaking very slowly, and still holding the
young knight's gaze with a sort of intent fascination, by the stony glare
of his light gray eyes
Therewith came a flash, a report; Friedel leaped back, staggered, fell;
Ebbo started to a sitting posture, with horrified eyes, and a loud
shriek, calling on his brother; Moritz sprang to his feet, shouting
said the count
and with a grim smile, he straightened his limbs,
and closed his eyes as a dead man, ere the indignant artisans fell on him
in savage vengeance.

All this had passed like a flash of lightning, and Friedel had almost at
the instant of his fall flung himself towards his brother, and raising
himself on one hand, with the other clasped Ebbo's, saying
and he was bending to take Ebbo's head again on his knee,
when a gush of dark blood, from his left side, caused Moritz to exclaim
cried Ebbo, supporting himself on his elbow,
so as to see his brother, who rather dreamily put his hand to his side,
and, looking at the fresh blood that immediately dyed it, said
said Moritz, apart to one of the workmen, with whom he
held counsel how to carry back to the castle the two young knights, who
remained on the bank, Ebbo partly extended on the ground, partly
supported on the knee and arm of Friedel, who sat with his head drooping
over him, their looks fixed on one another, as if conscious of nothing
else on earth
said Moritz, presently
Ebbo essayed, but was too faint, and Friedel, rousing himself from the
stupor, took the horn from him, and made the mountain echoes ring again,
but at the expense of a great effusion of blood.

By this time, however, Heinz was riding back, and a moment his exultation
changed to rage and despair, when he saw the condition of his young
lords.  Master Schleiermacher proposed to lay them on some of the planks
prepared for the building, and carry them up the new road
said Friedel
said Ebbo
he added, with a groan of
anguish.

Friedel made the sign of the cross over him
he said, as he bent to assist in laying his brother on the
boards, where a mantle had been spread; then kissed his brow, saying
Ebbo was lifted on the shoulders of his bearers, and Friedel strove to
rise, with the aid of Heinz, but sank back, unable to use his limbs; and
Schleiermacher was the more concerned
he said
he entreated.  And when with much difficulty he had been
lifted to the back of his cream-colour, who stood as gently and patiently
as if he understood the exigency of the moment, he sat upright, and waved
his hand as he passed the litter, while Ebbo, on his side, signed to him
to speed on and prepare their mother.  Long, however, before the castle
was reached, dizzy confusion and leaden helplessness, when no longer
stimulated by his brother's presence, so grew on him that it was with
much ado that Heinz could keep him in his saddle; but, when he saw his
mother in the castle gateway, he again collected his forces, bade Heinz
withdraw his supporting arm, and, straightening himself, waved a greeting
to her, as he called cheerily
was all Christina could say, for his effort at gaiety
formed a ghastly contrast with the gray, livid hue that overspread his
fair young face, his bloody armour, and damp disordered hair, and even
his stiff unearthly smile
he added, as she came so near that he could put his
arm round her neck
as his face lighted up
cried the bewildered mother
said Friedel, raising her face to him
with his hand, and adding, as he met a startled look
The last words were uttered
almost unconsciously, and he had nearly fallen, as the excitement faded;
but, as they were lifting him down, he bent once more and kissed the
glossy neck of his horse
The mother had no time for grief.  Alas!  She might have full time for
that by and by!  The one wish of the twins was to be together, and
presently both were laid on the great bed in the upper chamber, Ebbo in a
swoon from the pain of the transport, and Friedel lying so as to meet the
first look of recovery.  And, after Ebbo's eyes had re-opened, they
watched one another in silence for a short space, till Ebbo said
said Friedel
said Ebbo, holding his hand
said Friedel
cried Ebbo
repeated Friedel
and
he smiled again.

Like one in a dream Christina returned his smile, because she saw he
wished it, just as the moment before she had been trying to staunch his
wound.

It was plain that the injuries, except Ebbo's sword-cut, were far beyond
her skill, and she could only endeavour to check the bleeding till better
aid could be obtained from Ulm.  Thither Moritz Schleiermacher had
already sent, and he assured her that he was far from despairing of the
elder baron, but she derived little hope from his words, for gunshot
wounds were then so ill understood as generally to prove fatal.

Moreover, there was an undefined impression that the two lives must end
in the same hour, even as they had begun.  Indeed, Ebbo was suffering so
terribly, and was so much spent with pain and loss of blood, that he
seemed sinking much faster than Friedel, whose wound bled less freely,
and who only seemed benumbed and torpid, except when he roused himself to
speak, or was distressed by the writhings and moans which, however, for
his sake, Ebbo restrained as much as he could.

To be together seemed an all-sufficient consolation, and, when the
chaplain came sorrowfully to give them the last rites of the Church, Ebbo
implored him to pray that he might not be left behind long in purgatory
he said, clasping his brother's hand
said Friedel, partially roused by the sound of his name,
and the involuntary pressure of his hand
and he relapsed into a doze, while Ebbo murmured
over a broken, brief confession--exhausting by its vehemence of
self-accusation for his proud spirit, his wilful neglect of his lost
father, his hot contempt of prudent counsel.

Then, when the priest came round to Friedel's side, and the boy was
wakened to make his shrift, the words were contrite and humble, but calm
and full of trust.  They were like two of their own mountain streams, the
waters almost equally undefiled by external stain--yet one struggling,
agitated, whirling giddily round; the other still, transparent, and the
light of heaven smiling in its clearness.

The farewell greetings of the Church on earth breathed soft and sweet in
their loftiness, and Friedel, though lying motionless, and with closed
eyes, never failed in the murmured response, whether fully conscious or
not, while his brother only attended by fits and starts, and was
evidently often in too much pain to know what was passing.

Help was nearer than had been hoped.  The summons despatched the night
before had been responded to by the vintners and mercers; their train
bands had set forth, and their captain, a cautious man, never rode into
the way of blows without his surgeon at hand.  And so it came to pass
that, before the sun was low on that long and grievous day, Doctor
Johannes Butteman was led into the upper chamber, where the mother looked
up to him with a kind of hopeless gratitude on her face, which was nearly
as white as those of her sons.  The doctor soon saw that Friedel was past
human aid; but, when he declared that there was fair hope for the other
youth, Friedel, whose torpor had been dispelled by the examination,
looked up with his beaming smile, saying
The doctor then declared that he could not deal with the Baron's wound
unless he were the sole occupant of the bed, and this sentence brought
the first cloud of grief or dread to Friedel's brow, but only for a
moment.  He looked at his brother, who had again fainted at the first
touch of his wounded limb, and said
With much effort he signed the cross
again on his brother's brow, and kissed it long and fervently.  Then, as
all stood round, reluctant to effect this severance, or disturb one on
whom death was visibly fast approaching, he struggled up on his elbow,
and held out the other hand, saying
he further whispered, whilst almost
giving himself to Heinz and Moritz to be carried to his own bed in the
turret chamber.

There, even as they laid him down, began what seemed to be the mortal
agony, and, though he was scarcely sensible, his mother felt that her
prime call was to him, while his brother was in other hands.  Perhaps it
was well for her.  Surgical practice was rough, and wounds made by
fire-arms were thought to have imbibed a poison that made treatment be
supposed efficacious in proportion to the pain inflicted.  When Ebbo was
recalled by the torture to see no white reflection of his own face on the
pillow beside him, and to feel in vain for the grasp of the cold damp
hand, a delirious frenzy seized him, and his struggles were frustrating
the doctor's attempts, when a low soft sweet song stole through the open
door
he murmured, and held his breath to listen.  All through the
declining day did the gentle sound continue; now of grand chants or hymns
caught from the cathedral choir, now of songs of chivalry or saintly
legend so often sung over the evening fire; the one flowing into the
other in the wandering of failing powers, but never failing in the tender
sweetness that had distinguished Friedel through life.  And, whenever
that voice was heard, let them do to him what they would, Ebbo was still
absorbed in intense listening so as not to lose a note, and lulled almost
out of sense of suffering by that swan-like music.  If his attendants
made such noise as to break in on it, or if it ceased for a moment, the
anguish returned, but was charmed away by the weakest, faintest
resumption of the song.  Probably Friedel knew not, with any earthly
sense, what he was doing, but to the very last he was serving his twin
brother as none other could have aided him in his need.

The September sun had set, twilight was coming on, the doctor had worked
his stern will, and Ebbo, quivering in every fibre, lay spent on his
pillow, when his mother glided in, and took her seat near him, though
where she hoped he would not notice her presence.  But he raised his
eyelids, and said
she answered
And the low dove-like tone and tender calm face continued upon
Ebbo the spell that the chant had left.  He dozed as though still lulled
by its echo
THE star and the spark in the stubble!  Often did the presage of her
dream occur to Christina, and assist in sustaining her hopes during the
days that Ebbo's life hung in the balance, and he himself had hardly
consciousness to realize either his brother's death or his own state,
save as much as was shown by the words
Friedmund did wait, in his coffin before the altar in the castle chapel,
covered with a pall of blue velvet, and great white cross, mournfully
sent by Hausfrau Johanna; his sword, shield, helmet, and spurs laid on
it, and wax tapers burning at the head and feet.  And, when Christina
could leave the one son on his couch of suffering, it was to kneel beside
the other son on his narrow bed of rest, and recall, like a breath of
solace, the heavenly loveliness and peace that rested on his features
when she had taken her last long look at them.

Moritz Schleiermacher assisted at Sir Friedmund's first solemn requiem,
and then made a journey to Ulm, whence he returned to find the Baron's
danger so much abated that he ventured on begging for an interview with
the lady, in which he explained his purpose of repairing at once to the
imperial camp, taking with him a letter from the guilds concerned in the
bridge, and using his personal influence with Maximilian to obtain not
only pardon for the combat, but authoritative sanction to the erection.
Dankwart of Schlangenwald, the Teutonic knight, and only heir of old
Wolfgang, was supposed to be with the Emperor, and it might be possible
to come to terms with him, since his breeding in the Prussian
commanderies had kept him aloof from the feuds of his father and brother.
This mournful fight had to a certain extent equalized the injuries on
either side, since the man whom Friedel had cut down was Hierom, one of
the few remaining scions of Schlangenwald, and there was thus no
dishonour in trying to close the deadly feud, and coming to an amicable
arrangement about the Debateable Strand, the cause of so much bloodshed.
What was now wanted was Freiherr Eberhard's signature to the letter to
the Emperor, and his authority for making terms with the new count; and
haste was needed, lest the Markgraf of Wurtemburg should represent the
affray in the light of an outrage against a member of the League.

Christina saw the necessity, and undertook if possible to obtain her
son's signature, but, at the first mention of Master Moritz and the
bridge, Ebbo turned away his head, groaned, and begged to hear no more of
either.  He thought of his bold declaration that the bridge must be
built, even at the cost of blood!  Little did he then guess of whose
blood!  And in his bitterness of spirit he felt a jealousy of that
influence of Schleiermacher, which had of late come between him and his
brother.  He hated the very name, he said, and hid his face with a
shudder.  He hoped the torrent would sweep away every fragment of the
bridge
and he gazed on her with something like interest in
his eyes
sighed Ebbo
And Christina was thankful to see his look of gratification, sad though
it was.  She sat down near his bed, and began to write a letter in their
joint names to Graf Dankwart von Schlangenwald, proposing that thus,
after the even balance of the wrongs of the two houses, their mutual
hostility might be laid to rest for ever by the consecration of the cause
of their long contention.  It was a stiff and formal letter, full of the
set pious formularies of the age, scarcely revealing the deep
heart-feeling within; but it was to the purpose, and Ebbo, after hearing
it read, heartily approved, and consented to sign both it and those that
Schleiermacher had brought.  Christina held the scroll, and placed the
pen in the fingers that had lately so easily wielded the heavy sword, but
now felt it a far greater effort to guide the slender quill.

Moritz Schleiermacher went his way in search of the King of the Romans,
far off in Carinthia.  A full reply could not be expected till the
campaign was over, and all that was known for some time was through a
messenger sent back to Ulm by Schleiermacher with the intelligence that
Maximilian would examine into the matter after his return, and that Count
Dankwart would reply when he should come to perform his father's
obsequies after the army was dispersed.  There was also a letter of kind
though courtly condolence from Kasimir of Wildschloss, much grieving for
gallant young Sir Friedmund, proffering all the advocacy he could give
the cause of Adlerstein, and covertly proffering the protection that she
and her remaining son might now be more disposed to accept.  Christina
suppressed this letter, knowing it would only pain and irritate Ebbo, and
that she had her answer ready.  Indeed, in her grief for one son, and her
anxiety for the other, perhaps it was this letter that first made her
fully realize the drift of those earnest words of Friedel's respecting
his father.

Meantime the mother and son were alone together, with much of suffering
and of sorrow, yet with a certain tender comfort in the being all in all
to one another, with none to intermeddle with their mutual love and
grief.  It was to Christina as if something of Friedel's sweetness had
passed to his brother in his patient helplessness, and that, while thus
fully engrossed with him, she had both her sons in one.  Nay, in spite of
all the pain, grief, and weariness, these were times when both dreaded
any change, and the full recovery, when not only would the loss of
Friedel be every moment freshly brought home to his brother, but when
Ebbo would go in quest of his father.

For on this the young Baron had fixed his mind as a sacred duty, from the
moment he had seen that life was to be his lot.  He looked on his neglect
of indications of the possibility of his father's life in the light of a
sin that had led to all his disasters, and not only regarded the intended
search as a token of repentance, but as a charge bequeathed to him by his
less selfish brother.  He seldom spoke of his intention, but his mother
was perfectly aware of it, and never thought of it without such an agony
of foreboding dread as eclipsed all the hope that lay beyond.  She could
only turn away her mind from the thought, and be thankful for what was
still her own from day to day
asked Christina one October afternoon, as Ebbo lay
on his bed, languidly turning the pages of a noble folio of the Legends
of the Saints that Master Gottfried had sent for his amusement.  It was
such a book as fixed the ardour a few years later of the wounded
Navarrese knight, Inigo de Loyola, but Ebbo handled it as if each page
were lead
said Ebbo
and he
gave a long sigh
she said
said
Ebbo
said the lonely boy
While he thus spoke in the listless dejection of sorrow and weakness,
Hatto's aged step was on the stair
he said
said the lady
added Hatto
asked Ebbo
said Christina, rising
Yet, though shrinking from a stranger's face, she was not without hope
that the variety might wholesomely rouse her son from his depression, and
in effect Ebbo, when left with Hatto, minutely questioned him on the
appearance of the stranger, and watched, with much curiosity, for his
mother's return
she said, entering, after a long interval
cried Ebbo, almost fiercely
said Ebbo
repeated Eberhard
She leant over him and spoke low
She had the pleasure of seeing him laugh
said Christina
said Ebbo
By the time supper was ended, the only light in the upper room came from
the flickering flames of the fire of pine knots on the hearth.  It
glanced on the pale features and dark sad eyes of the young Baron, sad in
spite of the eager look of scrutiny that he turned on the figure that
entered at the door, and approached so quickly that the partial light
only served to show the gloss of long fair hair, the glint of a jewelled
belt, and the outline of a tall, well-knit, agile frame
he said
said the stranger, and
Ebbo started at his voice
said Ebbo
said Ebbo
Ebbo could not help exclaiming
said Theurdank
Ebbo's face was in full light, and his visitor marked his contracted brow
and trembling lip
he said
said Ebbo
said the knight
said Ebbo
said Theurdank, kindly grasping his hand
His kindliness and sympathy were more effectual with Ebbo than the desire
to represent his case favourably, for he was still too wretched to care
for policy; but he answered Theurdank's questions readily, and explained
how the idea of the bridge had originated in the vigil beside the broken
waggons
said Theurdank
said Ebbo, with spirit
burst out Theurdank
said Ebbo
muttered Theurdank, musing to himself
he
added
Ebbo proceeded with the narration, and concluded it just as the bell now
belonging to the chapel began to toll for compline, and Theurdank
prepared to obey its summons, first, however, asking if he should send
any one to the patient.  Ebbo thanked him, but said he needed no one till
his mother should come after prayers
and, giving him little choice, Theurdank supported him
with one arm while removing the pillows that propped him, then laid him
tenderly down, saying
Ebbo strove to follow mentally the services that were being performed in
the chapel, and whose "Amens" and louder notes pealed up to him, devoid
of the clear young tones that had sung their last here below, but swelled
by grand bass notes that as much distracted Ebbo's attention as the
memory of his guest's conversation; and he impatiently awaited his
mother's arrival.

At length, lamp in hand, she appeared with tears shining in her eyes, and
bending over him said
said Ebbo
Christina smiled, thankful that the work of pardon and reconciliation had
been thus softened by the personal qualities of the enemy, whose conduct
in the chapel had deeply moved her
she said
said Ebbo
whispered Christina
said Christina, remembering the danger that the
household might revenge Friedel's death if they knew the foe to be in
their power.  Knowing as she did that Ebbo's admiration was apt to be
enthusiastic, and might now be rendered the more fervent by fever and
solitude, she was still at a loss to understand his dazzled, fascinated
state.

When Heinz entered, bringing the castle key, which was always laid under
the Baron's pillow, Ebbo made a movement with his hand that surprised
them both, as if to send it elsewhere--then muttered
and asked
said his mother
said Heinz, somewhat
grimly
said Ebbo, wearily
said Heinz, when by a sign he had intimated to her his
desire of speaking with her unobserved by the Baron
muttered Heinz
implored Christina
And Christina dismissed the man-at-arms gruff and sullen, and herself
retired ill at ease between fears of, and for, the unwelcome guest whose
strange powers of fascination had rendered her, in his absence, doubly
distrustful
THE snow fell all night without ceasing, and was still falling on the
morrow, when the guest explained his desire of paying a short visit to
the young Baron, and then taking his departure.  Christina would gladly
have been quit of him, but she felt bound to remonstrate, for their
mountain was absolutely impassable during a fall of snow, above all when
accompanied by wind, since the drifts concealed fearful abysses, and the
shifting masses insured destruction to the unwary wayfarer; nay, natives
themselves had perished between the hamlet and the castle
she said
asked Theurdank, half smiling
he said, with a peculiar smile
Theurdank smiled again, saying
returned Theurdank
Christina could not be quite at ease with Theurdank in her son's room,
but she had no choice, and she knew that Heinz was watching on the turret
stair, out of hearing indeed, but as ready to spring as a cat who sees
her young ones in the hand of a child that she only half trusts.

Ebbo lay eagerly watching for his visitor, who greeted him with the same
almost paternal kindness he had evinced the night before, but consulted
him upon the way from the castle.  Ebbo confirmed his mother's opinion
that the path was impracticable so long as the snow fell, and the wind
tossed it in wild drifts
he said
said Eberhard with a long breath, after having listened with a
hunter's keen interest to this hair's-breadth escape
said Theurdank
murmured Ebbo, scarcely able to
utter the words as he thought of Friedel's delight in the pool, his
exploit at the eyrie, and the gay bargain made in the streets of Ulm,
that he should show the scaler of the Dom steeple the way to the eagle's
nest
said his guest gravely, coming to his side
Ebbo gazed up through his tears into the noble, mournful face that was
bent kindly over him
said Theurdank
returned Ebbo, from
the bottom of his heart
said the guest
Ebbo explained that he thought of making his way to Genoa to consult the
merchant Gian Battista dei Battiste, whose description of the captive
German noble had so strongly impressed Friedel.  Ebbo knew the difference
between Turks and Moors, but Friedel's impulse guided him, and he further
thought that at Genoa he should learn the way to deal with either variety
of infidel.  Theurdank thought this a prudent course, since the Genoese
had dealings both at Tripoli and Constantinople; and, moreover, the
transfer was not impossible, since the two different hordes of Moslems
trafficked among themselves when either had made an unusually successful
razzia
he broke out
said Ebbo
said Theurdank, kindly
said Ebbo
And he murmured over, in their melodious Italian flow, the lines on
Laura's death
he added aloud to himself
Such were the discourses of that morning, now on poetry and book lore;
now admiration of the carvings that decked the room; now talk on grand
architectural designs, or improvements in fire-arms, or the discussion of
hunting adventures.  There seemed nothing in art, life, or learning in
which the versatile mind of Theurdank was not at home, or that did not
end in some strange personal reminiscence of his own.  All was so kind,
so gracious, and brilliant, that at first the interview was full of
wondering delight to Ebbo, but latterly it became very fatiguing from the
strain of attention, above all towards a guest who evidently knew that he
was known, while not permitting such recognition to be avowed.  Ebbo
began to long for an interruption, but, though he could see by the
lightened sky that the weather had cleared up, it would have been
impossible to have suggested to any guest that the way might now probably
be open, and more especially to such a guest as this.  Considerate as his
visitor had been the night before, the pleasure of talk seemed to have
done away with the remembrance of his host's weakness, till Ebbo so
flagged that at last he was scarcely alive to more than the continued
sound of the voice, and all the pain that for a while had been in
abeyance seemed to have mastered him; but his guest, half reading his
books, half discoursing, seemed too much immersed in his own plans,
theories, and adventures, to mark the condition of his auditor.

Interruption came at last, however.  There was a sudden knock at the door
at noon, and with scant ceremony Heinz entered, followed by three other
of the men-at-arms, fully equipped
demanded Ebbo
said Heinz, advancing so as to place his large person
between Ebbo's bed and the strange hunter
exclaimed Ebbo, sitting up, and
speaking in the steady resolute voice that had so early rendered him
thoroughly their master, but much perplexed and dismayed, and entirely
unassisted by Theurdank, who stood looking on with almost a smile, as if
diverted by his predicament
said Heinz, putting his hand on his
shoulder
Even as Heinz spoke, Christina came panting into the room, and, hurrying
to her son's side, said
exclaimed Ebbo
said Heinz
thundered Ebbo
said Heinz
said Ebbo
The men looked one upon another.  Christina wrung her hands, uncertain
whether her son were not under some strange fatal deception
growled Koppel
said Ebbo, slowly
said Heinz
Drops stood on Ebbo's brow, and his breath laboured as he felt his senses
reeling, and his powers of defence for his guest failing him.  Even
should the stranger confess his name, the people of the castle might not
believe him; and here he stood like one indifferent, evidently measuring
how far his young host would go in his cause
said Ebbo, rallying his
forces
Here, and with a great effort
that terribly wrenched his wounded leg, he reached past Heinz, and
grasped his guest's hand, pulling him as near as he could
he said
A bugle-horn was wound outside.  The men stood daunted--Christina in
extreme terror for her son, who lay gasping, breathless, but still
clutching the stranger's hand, and with eyes of fire glaring on the
mutinous warriors.  Another bugle-blast!  Heinz was almost in the act of
grappling with the silent foe, and Koppel cried as he raised his halbert
but paused
said the strange guest
said Heinz, sternly
said the guest, slowly,
looking with strangely amused eyes on the confused lanzknechts, who were
trying to devour their rage
Christina dropped on her knee; the men-at-arms tumbled backwards; Ebbo
pressed the hand he held to his lips, and fainted away.  The bugle
sounded for the third time
SLOWLY and painfully did Ebbo recover from his swoon, feeling as if the
means of revival were rending him away from his brother.  He was so
completely spent that he was satisfied with a mere assurance that nothing
was amiss, and presently dropped into a profound slumber, whence he awoke
to find it still broad daylight, and his mother sitting by the side of
his bed, all looking so much as it had done for the last six weeks, that
his first inquiry was if all that had happened had been but a strange
dream.  His mother would scarcely answer till she had satisfied herself
that his eye was clear, his voice steady, his hand cool, and that, as she
said
cried Ebbo, eagerly
said Ebbo, anxiously
said the mother, quite as persuaded of her own rightful sway
in her son's sick chamber as ever Kunigunde had been of her dominion over
the castle
exclaimed Ebbo,
bitterly
said Christina
said Ebbo
And, after having fed and refreshed her patient, the gentle potentate of
his chamber consented to intimate her consent to admit the invader.  But
not till after delay enough to fret the impatient nerves of illness did
Maximilian appear, handing her in, and saying, in the cheery voice that
was one of his chief fascinations
said Ebbo
said the good-natured prince
said Ebbo
and he spoke gravely
said Ebbo
said Maximilian
said Ebbo
he added, taking Ebbo's hand
This was truly the only chance of impressing on the wild vassals of the
two houses an obligation that perhaps might override their ancient
hatred; and the Baron and his mother gladly submitted to the arrangement.
Maximilian withdrew to give directions for summoning the persons required
and Christina was soon obliged to leave her son, while she provided for
her influx of guests.

Ebbo was alone till nearly the end of the supper below stairs.  He had
been dozing, when a cautious tread came up the turret steps, and he
started, and called out
said a well-known voice
said Ebbo, holding out his hand
said Wildschloss, gravely
said Ebbo
said Wildschloss gravely
added Wildschloss, with some
annoyance
suggested Ebbo
said Sir Kasimir, bending over him, and speaking in an
undertone
began Ebbo
said Wildschloss, with a little of the irony that
used to nettle Ebbo
Ebbo started, as well he might, but Sir Kasimir laid his hand on him with
a gesture that bade him listen ere he spoke
he said
said the confused, surprised Ebbo
said Wildschloss
said Ebbo, thoughtfully
added Ebbo
said Wildschloss
Ebbo looked disconcerted, and gasped, as if this were over-quick
work
he said
Those days had no delicacies as to the lady's side taking the initiative:
and, in effect, the wealth and power of Wildschloss so much exceeded
those of the elder branch that it would have been presumptuous on
Eberhard's part to have made the proposal.  It was more a treaty than an
affair of hearts, and Sir Kasimir had not even gone through the form of
inquiring if Ebbo were fancy-free.  It was true, indeed, that he was
still a boy, with no passion for any one but his mother; but had he even
formed a dream of a ladye love, it would scarcely have been deemed a
rational objection.  The days of romance were no days of romance in
marriage.

Yet Christina, wedded herself for pure love, felt this obstacle strongly.
The scheme was propounded to her over the hall fire by no less a person
than Maximilian himself, and he, whose perceptions were extremely keen
when he was not too much engrossed to use them, observed her reluctance
through all her timid deference, and probed her reasons so successfully
that she owned at last that, though it might sound like folly, she could
scarce endure to see her son so bind himself that the romance of his life
could hardly be innocent
was the answer, in a tone of deep feeling
and he bowed
his head between his hands.

Verily, all the Low Countries had not impeded the true-hearted affection
of Maximilian and Mary; and, though since her death his want of
self-restraint had marred his personal character and morals, and though
he was now on the point of concluding a most loveless political marriage,
yet still Mary was--as he shows her as the Beatrice of both his strange
autobiographical allegories--the guiding star of his fitful life; and in
heart his fidelity was so unbroken that, when after a long pause he again
looked up to Christina, he spoke as well understanding her feelings
said
Maximilian, rather wickedly
This was not easy to answer, coming from a prince who had no small
experience in premature bridals coming to nothing, and Christina felt
that the matter was taken out of her hands, and that she had no more to
do but to enjoy the warm-hearted Kaisar's praises of her son.

In fact, the general run of nobles were then so boorish and violent
compared with the citizens, that a nobleman who possessed intellect,
loyalty, and conscience was so valuable to the sovereign that Maximilian
was rejoiced to do all that either could bind him to his service or
increase his power.  The true history of this expedition on the Emperor's
part was this--that he had consulted Kasimir upon the question of the
Debateable Ford and the feud of Adlerstein and Schlangenwald, asking
further how his friend had sped in the wooing of the fair widow, to which
he remembered having given his consent at Ulm.

Wildschloss replied that, though backed up by her kindred at Ulm, he had
made no progress in consequence of the determined opposition of her two
sons, and he had therefore resolved to wait a while, and let her and the
young Baron feel their inability to extricate themselves from the
difficulties that were sure to beset them, without his authority,
influence, and experience--fully believing that some predicament might
arise that would bring the mother to terms, if not the sons.

This disaster did seem to have fallen out, and he had meant at once to
offer himself to the lady as her supporter and advocate, able to bring
about all her son could desire; though he owned that his hopes would have
been higher if the survivor had been the gentle, friendly Friedmund,
rather than the hot and imperious Eberhard, who he knew must be brought
very low ere his objections would be withdrawn.

The touch of romance had quite fascinated Maximilian.  He would see the
lady and her son.  He would make all things easy by the personal
influence that he so well knew how to exert, backed by his imperial
authority; and both should see cause to be thankful to purchase consent
to the bridge-building, and pardon for the fray, by the marriage between
the widow and Sir Kasimir.

But the Last of the Knights was a gentleman, and the meek dignity of his
hostess had hindered him from pressing on her any distasteful subject
until her son's explanation of the uncertainty of her husband's death had
precluded all mention of this intention.  Besides, Maximilian was himself
greatly charmed by Ebbo's own qualities--partly perhaps as an intelligent
auditor, but also by his good sense, high spirit, and, above all, by the
ready and delicate tact that had both penetrated and respected the
disguise.  Moreover, Maximilian, though a faulty, was a devout man, and
could appreciate the youth's unswerving truth, under circumstances that
did, in effect, imperil him more really than his guest.  In this mood,
Maximilian felt disposed to be rid to the very utmost of poor Sir
Kasimir's unlucky attachment to a wedded lady; and receiving letters
suggestive of the Eastern mission, instantly decided that it would only
be doing as he would be done by instantly to order the disappointed
suitor off to the utmost parts of the earth, where he would much have
liked to go himself, save for the unlucky clog of all the realm of
Germany.  That Sir Kasimir had any tie to home he had for the moment
entirely forgotten; and, had he remembered it, the knight was so
eminently fitted to fulfil his purpose, that it could hardly have been
regarded.  But, when Wildschloss himself devised his little heiress's
union with the head of the direct line, it was a most acceptable proposal
to the Emperor, who set himself to forward it at once, out of policy, and
as compensation to all parties.

And so Christina's gentle remonstrance was passed by.  Yet, with all her
sense of the venture, it was thankworthy to look back on the trembling
anxiety with which she had watched her boy's childhood, and all his
temptations and perils, and compare her fears with his present position:
his alliance courted, his wisdom honoured, the child of the proud,
contemned outlaw received as the favourite of the Emperor, and the valued
ally of her own honoured burgher world.  Yet he was still a mere lad.
How would it be for the future?

Would he be unspoiled?  Yes, even as she already viewed one of her twins
as the star on high--nay, when kneeling in the chapel, her dazzling tears
made stars of the glint of the light reflected in his bright helmet--might
she not trust that the other would yet run his course to and fro, as the
spark in the stubble
NO one could bear to waken the young Baron till the sun had risen high
enough to fall on his face and unclose his eyes.

"Mother" (ever his first word
said Ebbo.

And so Christina made her son ready for the day's solemnities, arraying
him in a fine holland shirt with exquisite broidery of her own on the
collar and sleeves, and carefully disposing his long glossy, dark brown
hair so as to fall on his shoulders as he lay propped up by cushions.
She would have thrown his crimson mantle round him, but he repelled it
indignantly
said Ebbo
It was over early for pain and sorrow to have taught that lesson, thought
the mother, as with tender tears she gave place to the priest, who was to
begin the solemnities of the day by shriving the young Baron.  It was
Father Norbert, who had in this very chamber baptized the brothers, while
their grandmother was plotting the destruction of their godfather, even
while he gave Friedmund his name of peace,--Father Norbert, who had from
the very first encouraged the drooping, heart-stricken, solitary
Christina not to be overcome of evil, but to overcome evil with good.

A temporary altar was erected between the windows, and hung with the silk
and embroidery belonging to that in the chapel: a crucifix was placed on
it, with the shrine of the stone of Nicaea, one or two other relics
brought on St. Ruprecht's cloister, and a beautiful mother-of-pearl and
gold pyx also from the abbey, containing the host.  These were arranged
by the chaplain, Father Norbert, and three of his brethren from the
abbey.  And then the Father Abbot, a kindly, dignified old man, who had
long been on friendly terms with the young Baron, entered; and after a
few kind though serious words to him, assumed a gorgeous cope stiff with
gold embroidery, and, standing by the altar, awaited the arrival of the
other assistants at the ceremony.

The slender, youthful-looking, pensive lady of the castle, in her wonted
mourning dress, was courteously handed to her son's bedside by the
Emperor.  He was in his plain buff leathern hunting garb, unornamented,
save by the rich clasp of his sword-belt and his gold chain, and his head
was only covered by the long silken locks of fair hair that hung round
his shoulders; but, now that his large keen dark blue eyes were gravely
restrained, and his eager face composed, his countenance was so majestic,
his bearing so lofty, that not all his crowns could have better marked
his dignity.

Behind him came a sunburnt, hardy man, wearing the white mantle and black
fleur-de-lis-pointed cross of the Teutonic Order.  A thrill passed
through Ebbo's veins as he beheld the man who to him represented the
murderer of his brother and both his grandfathers, the cruel oppressor of
his father, and the perpetrator of many a more remote, but equally
unforgotten, injury.  And in like manner Sir Dankwart beheld the actual
slayer of his father, and the heir of a long score of deadly retribution.
No wonder then that, while the Emperor spoke a few words of salutation
and inquiry, gracious though not familiar, the two foes scanned one
another with a shiver of mutual repulsing, and a sense that they would
fain have fought it out as in the good old times.

However, Ebbo only beheld a somewhat dull, heavy, honest-looking visage
of about thirty years old, good-nature written in all its flat German
features, and a sort of puzzled wonder in the wide light eyes that stared
fixedly at him, no doubt in amazement that the mighty huge-limbed
Wolfgang could have been actually slain by the delicately-framed youth,
now more colourless than ever in consequence of the morning's fast.
Schleiermacher was also present, and the chief followers on either hand
had come into the lower part of the room--Hatto, Heinz, and Koppel,
looking far from contented; some of the Emperor's suite; and a few
attendants of Schlangenwald, like himself connected with the Teutonic
Order.

The Emperor spoke
said Schlangenwald; and
said Ebbo
replied Maximilian
said both knights
added Moritz
Schleiermacher
continued the Emperor
said the Teutonic knight.  But to Ebbo it
was a shock that the pure, gentle Friedmund should thus be classed with
his treacherous assassin; and he had almost declared that it would be
sacrilege, when he received from the Emperor a look of stern, surprised
command, which reminded him that concession must not be all on one side,
and that he could not do Friedel a greater wrong than to make him a cause
of strife.  So, though they half choked him, he contrived to utter the
words
said Schlangenwald, producing from his pouch a collection of
hostile literature, beginning from a crumpled strip of yellow parchment
and ending with a coarse paper missive in the clerkly hand of
burgher-bred Hugh Sorel, and bearing the crooked signatures of the last
two Eberhards of Adlerstein--all with great seals of the eagle shield
appended to them.  A similar collection--which, with one or two other
family defiances, and the letters of investiture recently obtained at
Ulm, formed the whole archives of Adlerstein--had been prepared within
Ebbo's reach; and each of the two, taking up a dagger, made extensive
gashes in these documents, and then--with no mercy to the future
antiquaries, who would have gloated over them--the whole were hurled into
the flames on the hearth, where the odour they emitted, if not grateful
to the physical sense, should have been highly agreeable to the moral
said Maximilian
Such solemn reconciliations were frequent, but, alas were too often a
mockery.  Here, however, both parties were men who felt the awe of the
promise made before the Pardon-winner of all mankind.  Ebbo, bred up by
his mother in the true life of the Church, and comparatively apart from
practical superstitions, felt the import to the depths of his inmost
soul, with a force heightened by his bodily state of nervous
impressibility; and his wan, wasted features and dark shining eyes had a
strange spiritual beam
as he followed the
words of universal forgiveness and lofty praise that he had heard last in
his anguished trance, when his brother lay dying beside him, and leaving
him behind.  He knew now that it was for this.

His deep repressed ardour and excitement were no small contrast to the
sober, matter-of-fact demeanour of the Teutonic knight, who comported
himself with the mechanical decorum of an ecclesiastic, but quite as one
who meant to keep his word.  Maximilian served the mass in his royal
character as sub-deacon.  He was fond of so doing, either from humility,
or love of incongruity, or both.  No one, however, communicated except
the clergy and the parties concerned--Dankwart first, as being monk as
well as knight, then Eberhard and his mother; and then followed,
interposed into the rite, the oath of pardon, friendship, and brotherhood
administered by the abbot, and followed by the solemn kiss of peace.
There was now no recoil; Eberhard raised himself to meet the lips of his
foe, and his heart went with the embrace.  Nay, his inward ear dwelt on
Friedmund's song mingling with the concluding chants of praise.

The service ended, it was part of the pledge of amity that the reconciled
enemies should break their fast together, and a collation of white bread
and wine was provided for the purpose.  The Emperor tried to promote free
and friendly talk between the two adversaries, but not with great
success; for Dankwart, though honest and sincere, seemed extremely dull.
He appeared to have few ideas beyond his Prussian commandery and its
routine discipline, and to be lost in a castle where all was at his sole
will and disposal, and he caught eagerly at all proposals made to him as
if they were new lights.  As, for instance, that some impartial
arbitrator should be demanded from the Swabian League to define the
boundary; and that next Rogation-tide the two knights should ride or
climb it in company, while meantime the serfs should be strictly charged
not to trespass, and any transgressor should be immediately escorted to
his own lord
quoth Sir Dankwart, in a most serious tone
cried Maximilian
cried Ebbo
replied the Kaisar
said
Ebbo
smiled
Maximilian, to whom the danger seemed to be such a stimulus that he began
to propose the bear-hunt immediately, as an interlude while waiting for
the bride.

However, at that moment, half-a-dozen horsemen were seen coming up from
the ford, by the nearer path, and a forerunner arrived with the tidings
that the Baron of Adlerstein Wildschloss was close behind with the little
Baroness Thekla.

Half the moonlight night had Sir Kasimir and his escort ridden; and,
after a brief sleep at the nearest inn outside Ulm, he had entered in
early morning, demanded admittance at the convent, made short work with
the Abbess Ludmilla's arguments, claimed his daughter, and placing her on
a cushion before him on his saddle, had borne her away, telling her of
freedom, of the kind lady, and the young knight who had dazzled her
childish fancy.

Christina went down to receive her.  There was no time to lose, for the
huntsman Kaisar was bent on the slaughter of his bear before dark, and,
if he were to be witness of the wedding, it must be immediate.  He was in
a state of much impatience, which he beguiled by teasing his friend
Wildschloss by reminding him how often he himself had been betrothed, and
had managed to slip his neck out of the noose
he said, tossing
his bear-spear in the air, and catching it again
Thus nothing could be done to prepare the little maiden but to divest her
of her mufflings, and comb out her flaxen hair, crowning it with a wreath
which Christina had already woven from the myrtle of her own girlhood,
scarcely waiting to answer the bewildered queries and entreaties save by
caresses and admonitions to her to be very good.

Poor little thing!  She was tired, frightened, and confused; and, when
she had been brought upstairs, she answered the half smiling, half shy
greeting of her bridegroom with a shudder of alarm, and the exclamation
said Ebbo, for she wore a
little conventual dress
and, as she hid her face and clung to his mother, he added in a
more cheerful, coaxing tone
Before she could be answered, the impatient Emperor returned, and brought
with him the abbot, who proceeded to find the place in his book, and to
ask the bridegroom for the rings.  Ebbo looked at Sir Kasimir, who owned
that he should have brought them from Ulm, but that he had forgotten
said Ebbo, with a glow of amusement and
confusion dawning on his cheek, such as reassured the little maid that
she beheld one of the two beautiful young knights
Christina looked at the ring she had first seen lying on her own
Eberhard's palm, and felt as if to let it be used would sever the renewed
hope she scarcely yet durst entertain; and at the same moment Maximilian
glanced at his own fingers, and muttered
For
it was the very diamond which Mary of Burgundy had sent to assure him of
her faith, and summon him to her aid after her father's death.  Sir
Kasimir had not retained the pledge of his own ill-omened wedlock; but,
in the midst of the dilemma, the Emperor, producing his dagger, began to
detach some of the massive gold links of the chain that supported his
hunting-horn
said he
Slender-boned and thin as was Ebbo's hand, it was a very tight fit, but
the purpose was served.  The service commenced; and fortunately, thanks
to Thekla's conventual education, she was awed into silence and decorum
by the sound of Latin and the sight of an abbot.  It was a strange
marriage, if only in the contrast between the pale, expressive face and
sad, dark eyes of the prostrate youth, and the frightened, bewildered
little girl, standing upon a stool to reach up to him, with her blue eyes
stretched with wonder, and her cheeks flushed and pouting with unshed
tears, her rosy plump hand enclosed in the long white wasted one that was
thus for ever united to it by the broken fragments of Kaisar Max's chain.

The rite over, two attestations of the marriage of Eberhard, Freiherr von
Adlerstein, and Thekla, Freiherrinn von Adlerstein Wildschloss and
Felsenbach, were drawn up and signed by the abbot, the Emperor, Count
Dankwart, and the father and mother of the two contracting parties; one
to be committed to the care of the abbot, the other to be preserved by
the house of Adlerstein.

Then the Emperor, as the concluding grace of the ceremonial, bent to kiss
the bride; but, tired, terrified, and cross, Thekla, as if quite relieved
to have some object for her resentment, returned his attempt with a
vehement buffet, struck with all the force of her small arm, crying out
said the good-natured Emperor, laughing
heartily
he added, stooping over Ebbo, and
kissing his brow
And the next that was heard from the Kaisar was the arrival of a parcel
of Italian books for the Freiherr Eberhard, and for the little
Freiherrinn a large bundle, which proved to contain a softly-dressed
bearskin, with the head on, the eyes being made of rubies, a gold muzzle
and chain on the nose, and the claws tipped with gold.  The Emperor had
made a point that it should be conveyed to the castle, snow or no snow,
for a yule gift
THE clear sunshine of early summer was becoming low on the hillsides.
Sparkling and dimpling, the clear amber-coloured stream of the
Braunwasser rippled along its stony bed, winding in and out among the
rocks so humbly that it seemed to be mocked by the wide span of the arch
that crossed it in all the might of massive bulwarks, and dignified
masonry of huge stones.

Some way above, a clearing of the wood below the mountain showed huts,
and labourers apparently constructing a mill so as to take advantage of
the leap of the water from the height above; and, on the left bank, an
enclosure was traced out, within which were rising the walls of a small
church, while the noise of the mallet and chisel echoed back from the
mountain side, and masons, white with stone-dust, swarmed around.

Across the bridge came a pilgrim, marked out as such by hat, wallet, and
long staff, on which he leant heavily, stumbling along as if both halting
and footsore, and bending as one bowed down by past toil and present
fatigue.  Pausing in the centre, he gazed round with a strange
disconcerted air--at the castle on the terraced hillside, looking down
with bright eyes of glass glittering in the sunshine, and lighting up
even that grim old pile; at the banner hanging so lazily that the
tinctures and bearings were hidden in the folds; then at the crags, rosy
purple in evening glow, rising in broad step above step up to the Red
Eyrie, bathed in sunset majesty of dark crimson; and above it the sweep
of the descending eagle, discernible for a moment in the pearly light of
the sky.  The pilgrim's eye lighted up as he watched it; but then,
looking down at bridge, and church, and trodden wheel-tracked path, he
frowned with perplexity, and each painful step grew heavier and more
uncertain.

Near the opposite side of the enclosure there waited a tall,
rugged-looking, elderly man with two horses--one an aged mare, mane, tail,
and all of the snowiest silvery white; the other a little shaggy dark
mountain pony, with a pad-saddle.  And close to the bank of the stream
might be seen its owner, a little girl of some seven years, whose tight
round lace cap had slipped back, as well as her blue silk hood, and
exposed a profusion of loose flaxen hair, and a plump, innocent face,
intent upon some private little bit of building of her own with some
pebbles from the brook, and some mortar filched from the operations
above, to the great detriment of her soft pinky fingers.

The pilgrim looked at her unperceived, and for a moment was about to
address her; but then, with a strange air of repulsion, dragged himself
on to the porch of the rising church, where, seated on a block of stone,
he could look into the interior.  All was unfinished, but the portion
which had made the most progress was a chantry-chapel opposite to the
porch, and containing what were evidently designed to be two monuments.
One was merely blocked out, but it showed the outline of a warrior,
bearing a shield on which a coiled serpent was rudely sketched in red
chalk.  The other, in a much more forward state, was actually under the
hands of the sculptor, and represented a slender youth, almost a boy,
though in the full armour of a knight, his hands clasped on his breast
over a lute, an eagle on his shield, an eagle-crest on his helmet, and,
under the arcade supporting the altar-tomb, shields alternately of eagles
and doves.

But the strangest thing was that this young knight seemed to be sitting
for his own effigy.  The very same face, under the very same helmet, only
with the varied, warm hues of life, instead of in cold white marble, was
to be seen on the shoulders of a young man in a gray cloth dress, with a
black scarf passing from shoulder to waist, crossed by a sword-belt.  The
hair was hidden by the helmet, whose raised visor showed keen, finely-cut
features, and a pair of dark brown eyes, of somewhat grave and sad
expression
he presently said
The pilgrim passed his hand over his face, as though to dissipate a
bewildering dream; and just then the little girl, all flushed and
dabbled, flew rushing up from the stream, but came to a sudden standstill
at sight of the stranger, who at length addressed her
he
said
said the child.

The pilgrim started, as with a pang of recollection
he further asked
she said, proudly
again she answered; and then, gathering courage
And then,
springing past him, she flew up to the knight, crying
said the young man, with an
elder-brotherly endeavour to right the little cap that had slidden under
the chin, and to push back the unmanageable wealth of hair under it, ere
he rose; and he came forward and spoke with kind courtesy, as he observed
the wanderer's worn air and feeble step
The pilgrim made an obeisance, but, instead of answering, demanded
hastily
still eagerly pursued the pilgrim; and
receiving a sign in the affirmative
and the pilgrim surveyed him with undisguised astonishment; then,
without another word, took up his staff and limped out of the building,
but not on the road to Schlangenwald.  It was nearly a quarter of an hour
afterwards that he was overtaken by the young knight and the little lady
on their horses, just where the new road to the castle parted from the
old way by the Eagle's Ladder.  The knight reined up as he saw the poor
man's slow, painful steps, and said
said the young
knight, springing off his horse
To go afoot for the sake of giving a lift to a holy wayfarer was one of
the most esteemed acts of piety of the Middle Age, so that no one durst
object to it, and the palmer did no more than utter a suppressed murmur
of acknowledgment as he seated himself on horseback, the young knight
walking by his rein
he exclaimed, almost with
dismay
added the knight
was the answer, in an
odd, muffled tone
was the exclamation
gruffly
he cried, looking eagerly up to the pilgrim; but the man kept his
broad-leaved hat slouched over his face, and only muttered
the last word so low that Ebbo was not sure that he caught
it, and the next moment the old warrior exclaimed exultingly
said Ebbo, never able to
speak of the encounter without a weight at his heart, but drawn on by the
earnestness of the old foe of Schlangenwald
cried the pilgrim, in rapture
said Ebbo, drawing the weapon, and
giving it to the old man, who held it for a few moments, weighed it
affectionately, and with a long low sigh restored it, saying
said Ebbo
said Ebbo, again trying to see his guest's face
growled the stranger, bitterly
said
Ebbo
said Ebbo, with half a smile and half a blush
By this time they had reached the castle court, now a well-kept,
lordly-looking enclosure, where the pilgrim looked about him as one
bewildered.  He was so infirm that Ebbo carefully helped him up the stone
stairs to the hall, where he already saw his mother prepared for the
hospitable reception of the palmer.  Leaving him at the entrance, Ebbo
crossed the hall to say to her in a low voice
exclaimed Christina,
grieved to see her son's halting step
said Ebbo, seating himself as he spoke on a
settle near the hall fire; but the next moment a strange wild low shriek
from his mother made him start up and spring to her side.  She stood with
hands clasped, and wondering eyes.  The pilgrim--his hat on the ground,
his white head and rugged face displayed--was gazing as though devouring
her with his eyes, murmuring
thundered the young Baron
exclaimed Christina
she wildly cried
said Ebbo, keeping his arm round her, though she
struggled against him, for he felt some doubts as he looked back at his
walk with the stranger, and remembered Heinz's want of recognition
was the cry of poor Christina, almost beside herself
said the stranger, slowly
said Ebbo, abashed
and, as his mother broke
from him, he fell upon his knee; but he only heard his father's cry
and, looking up, saw her, with
her face hidden in the white beard, quivering with a rapture such as he
had never seen in her before.  It seemed long to him ere she looked up
again in her husband's face to sob on
And the pilgrim turned to hear Ebbo's
Almost bashfully the pilgrim laid his hand on the dark head, and murmured
something; then said
holding
out his hand
said Heinz
said Sir Eberhard, whose tones, rather than
his looks, carried perfect conviction of his identity.  It was the old
homely accent, and gruff good-humoured voice, but with something subdued
and broken in the tone.  His features had grown like his father's, but he
looked much older than ever the hale old mountaineer had done, or than
his real age; so worn and lined was his face, his skin tanned, his
eyelids and temples puckered by burning sun, his hair and beard white as
the inane of his old mare, the proud Adlerstein port entirely gone.  He
stooped even more without his staff than with it; and, when he yielded
himself with a sigh of repose to his wife's tendance, she found that he
had not merely the ordinary hurts of travelling, but that there were old
festering scars on his ankles
he said, as she looked up at
him, with startled, pitying eyes
As he almost timidly smoothed the braid of
dark hair on her brow
said Christina
she
said, timidly
he answered, earnestly
Ebbo was hovering round, supplying all that was needed for his father's
comfort; but his parents were so completely absorbed in one another that
he was scarcely noticed, and, what perhaps pained him more, there was no
word about Friedel.  He felt this almost an injustice to the brother who
had been foremost in embracing the idea of the unknown father, and
scarcely understood how his parents shrank from any sorrowful thought
that might break in on their new-found joy, nor that he himself was so
strange and new a being in his father's eyes, that to imagine him doubled
was hardly possible to the tardy, dulled capacity, which as yet seemed
unable to feel anything but that here was home, and Christina.

When the chapel bell rang, and the pair rose to offer their thanksgiving,
Ebbo dutifully offered his support, but was absolutely unseen, so fondly
was Sir Eberhard leaning on his wife; and her bright exulting smile and
shake of the head gave an absolute pang to the son who had hitherto been
all in all to her.

He followed, and, as they passed Friedmund's coffin, he thought his
mother pointed to it, but even of this he was uncertain.  The pair knelt
side by side with hands locked together, while notes of praise rose from
all voices; and meantime Ebbo, close to that coffin, strove to share the
joy, and to lift up a heart that _would_ sink in the midst of
self-reproach for undutifulness, and would dislike the thought of the
rude untaught man, holding aloof from him, likely to view him with
distrust and jealousy, and to undo all he had achieved, and further
absorbing the mother, the mother who was to him all the world, and for
whose sake he had given his best years to the child-wife, as yet nothing
to him.

It was reversing the natural order of things that, after reigning from
infancy, he should have to give up at eighteen to one of the last
generation; and some such thought rankled in his mind when the whole
household trooped joyfully out of the chapel to prepare a banquet for
their old new lord, and their young old lord was left alone.

Alone with the coffin where the armour lay upon the white cross, Ebbo
threw himself on his knees, and laid his head upon it, murmuring
said a little voice.

His first movement was impatient.  Thekla was apt to pursue him wherever
he did not want her; but here he had least expected her, for she had a
great fear of that coffin, and could hardly be brought to the chapel at
prayer times, when she generally occupied herself with fancies that the
empty helmet glared at her.  But now Ebbo saw her standing as near as she
durst, with a sweet wistfulness in her eyes, such as he had never seen
there before
he said
she said, clasping her
hands
Page 269
he said, bitterly
cried Thekla; and, as he looked up between amusement
and melancholy, he met such a loving eager little face, that he could not
help holding out his arms, and letting her cling to him
she
said
said he; and, child as she
was, there was strange solace to his heart in the eyes that, once vacant
and wondering, had now gained a look of love and intelligence
she said, shuddering a little, as he rose and
laid his hand on Friedel's sword
said Ebbo, unbuckling
that which he had so long worn
he added
He guided Thekla's happy little fingers to the fastening of the belt, and
then, laying his hand on hers, said gravely
And feeling no longer solitary when his hand was in the clasp of hers, he
returned to the hall, where his father was installed in the baronial
chair, in which Ebbo had been at home from babyhood.  His mother's
exclamation showed that her son had been wanting to her; and she looked
fuller than ever of bliss when Ebbo gravely stood before his father, and
presented him with the good old sword that he had sent to his unborn son
said he
All that evening, and long after, his hand from time to time sought the
hilt of his sword, as if that touch above all proved to him that he was
again a free noble in his own castle.

The story he told was thus.  The swoon in which Heinz had left him had
probably saved his life by checking the gush of blood, and he had known
no more till he found himself in a rough cart among the corpses.  At
Schlangenwald's castle he had been found still breathing, and had been
flung into a dungeon, where he lay unattended, for how long he never
knew, since all the early part of the time was lost in the clouds of
fever.  On coarse fare and scanty drink, in that dark vault, he had
struggled by sheer obstinacy of vitality into recovery.  In the very
height of midsummer alone did the sun peep through the grating of his
cell, and he had newly hailed this cheerful visitor when he was roughly
summoned, placed on horseback with eyes and hands bound, and only allowed
sight again to find himself among a herd of his fellow Germans in the
Turkish camp.  They were the prisoners of the terrible Turkish raid of
1475, when Georg von Schenk and fourteen other noblemen of Austria and
Styria were all taken in one unhappy fight, and dragged away into
captivity, with hundreds of lower rank.

To Sir Eberhard the change had been greatly for the better.  The Turk had
treated him much better than the Christian; and walking in the open air,
chained to a German comrade, was far pleasanter than pining in his lonely
dungeon.  At Adrianople, an offer had been made to each of the captives,
if they would become Moslems, of entering the Ottoman service as Spahis;
but with one voice they had refused, and had then been draughted into
different divisions.  The fifteen nobles, who had been offered for
ransom, were taken to Constantinople, to await its arrival, and they had
promised Sir Eberhard to publish his fate on their return to their homes;
and, though he knew the family resources too well to have many hopes, he
was rather hurt to find that their promise had been unfulfilled
said Ebbo
almost gasped Sir Eberhard in amaze
said Ebbo
said his father, narrating how he with a
large troop of captives had been driven down to the coast; where they
were transferred to a Moorish slave-dealer, who shipped them off for
Tunis.  Here, after their first taste of the miseries of a sea life, the
alternative of Islam or slavery was again put before them
said Sir Eberhard
He had then
been allotted to a corsair, and had thenceforth been chained to the bench
of rowers, between the two decks, where, in stifling heat and stench, in
storm or calm, healthy or diseased, the wretched oarsmen were compelled
to play the part of machinery in propelling the vessel, in order to
capture Christian ships--making exertions to which only the perpetual lash
of the galley-master could have urged their exhausted frames; often not
desisting for twenty or thirty hours, and rowing still while sustenance
was put into their mouths by their drivers.  Many a man drew has last
breath with his last stroke, and was at the first leisure moment hurled
into the waves.  It was the description that had so deeply moved Friedel
long ago, and Christina wept over it, as she looked at the bowed form
once so proud and free, and thought of the unhealed scars.  But there,
her husband added, he had been chained next to a holy friar of German
blood, like himself a captive of the great Styrian raid; and, while some
blasphemed in their misery, or wildly chid their patron saints, this good
man strove to show that all was to work out good; he had a pious saying
for all that befell, and adored the will of God in thus purifying him
and he
took out a rosary of strung bladders of seaweed
It was plain that Sir Eberhard had learnt more Christianity in the hold
of his Moorish pirate ship than ever in the Holy Roman Empire, and a
weight was lifted off his son's mind by finding that he had vowed never
to return to a life of violence, even though fancying a life of penance
in a hermitage the only alternative.

Ebbo asked if the Genoese merchant, Ser Gian Battista dei Battiste, had
indeed been one of his fellow-captives
and on the repetition
Christina smiled
said the traveller, holding up his hands in deprecation
said Christina, softly.

And Ebbo briefly narrated the adventure, when it evidently appeared that
his having led at least one foray gave his father for the first time a
fellow-feeling for him, and a sense that he was one of the true old
stock; but, when he heard of the release, he growled
said Ebbo, in his old defiant tone
said the
elder knight, looking round rather piteously; and Ebbo, with a sudden
movement, exclaimed
said Sir Eberhard, gazing with a strange
puzzled look at the delicate but spirited features of this strange
perplexing son
And as he compared the slender, shapely hand of such finely-textured skin
with the breadth of his own horny giant's paw, he tossed it from him,
shaking his head with a gesture as if he had no commands for such
feminine-looking fingers to execute, and mortifying Ebbo not a little
said Christina, apologetically
said Sir Eberhard, hastily
He was led back to his narration, and it appeared that, after some years
spent at the oar, certain bleedings from the lungs, the remains of his
wound, had become so much more severe as to render him useless for naval
purposes; and, as he escaped actually dying during a voyage, he was
allowed to lie by on coming into port till he had in some degree
recovered, and then had been set to labour at the fortifications, chained
to another prisoner, and toiling between the burning sand and burning
sun, but treated with less horrible severity than the necessities of the
sea had occasioned on board ship, and experiencing the benefit of
intercourse with the better class of captives, whom their miserable fate
had thrown into the hands of the Moors.

It was a favourite almsdeed among the Provencals, Spaniards, and Italians
to send money for the redemption of prisoners to the Moors, and there was
a regular agency for ransoms through the Jews; but German captives were
such an exception that no one thought of them, and many a time had the
summons come for such and such a slave by name, or for five poor
Sicilians, twenty Genoese, a dozen Marseillais, or the like, but still no
word for the Swabian; till he had made up his mind that he should either
leave his bones in the hot mud of the harbour, or be only set free by
some gallant descent either of the brave King of Portugal, or of the
Knights of Rhodes, of whom the captives were ever dreaming and
whispering.

At length his own slave name was shouted; he was called up by the captain
of his gang, and, while expecting some fresh punishment, or, maybe, to
find himself sold into some domestic form of slavery, he was set before a
Jewish agent, who, after examining him on his name, country, and station,
and comparing his answers with a paper of instructions, informed him that
he was ransomed, caused his fetters to be struck off, and shipped him off
at once for Genoa, with orders to the captain to consign him to the
merchant Signor del Battiste.  By him Sir Eberhard had been received with
the warmest hospitality, and treated as befitted his original station,
but Battista disclaimed the merit of having ransomed him.  He had but
acted, he said, as the agent of an Austrian gentleman, from whom he had
received orders to inquire after the Swabian baron who had been his
fellow-captive, and, if he were still living, to pay his ransom, and
bring him home
eagerly asked Ebbo and his mother at once
cried Ebbo
said Sir Eberhard
said Christina
said Ebbo
said his father
say Ebbo, after a moment's recollection, colouring as he spoke
said Christina
said the old man
added the wife
This, it appeared, was far from being his deliverer's fault.  Money had
been supplied, and Sir Eberhard had travelled as far as Aosta with a
party of Italian merchants; but no sooner had he parted with them than he
was completely astray.  His whole experience of life had been as a robber
baron or as a slave, and he knew not how to take care of himself as a
peaceful traveller; he suffered fresh extortions at every stage, and
after a few days was plundered by his guides, beaten, and left devoid of
all means of continuing the journey to which he could hardly hope for a
cheerful end.  He did not expect to find his mother living,--far less that
his unowned wife could have survived the perils in which he had involved
her; and he believed that his ancestral home would, if not a ruin, be
held by his foes, or at best by the rival branch of the family, whose
welcome of the outlawed heir would probably be to a dungeon, if not a
halter.  Yet the only magnet on earth for the lonely wanderer was his
native mountain, where from some old peasant he might learn how his fair
young bride had perished, and perhaps the sins of his youth might be
expiated by continual prayer in the hermitage chapel where his sister lay
buried, and whence he could see the crags for which his eye and heart had
craved so long with the home-sickness of a mountaineer.

And now, when his own Christina had welcomed him with all the overflow of
her loving heart, unchanged save that hers had become a tenderer yet more
dignified loveliness; when his gallant son, in all the bloom of young
manhood, received him with dutiful submission; when the castle, in a
state of defence, prosperity, and comfort of which he had never dreamt,
was again his own;--still the old man was bewildered, and sometimes
oppressed almost to distress.  He had, as it were, fallen asleep in one
age of the world, and wakened in another, and it seemed as if he really
wished to defer his wakening, or else that repose was an absolute novelty
to him; for he sat dozing in his chair in the sun the whole of the next
day, and scarcely spoke.

Ebbo, who felt it a necessity to come to an understanding of the terms on
which they were to stand, tried to refer matters to him, and to explain
the past, but he was met sometimes by a shake of the head, sometimes by a
nod--not of assent, but of sleep; and his mother advised him not to harass
the wearied traveller, but to leave him to himself at least for that day,
and let him take his own time for exertion, letting things meantime go on
as usual.  Ebbo obeyed, but with a load at his heart, as he felt that all
he was doing was but provisional, and that it would be his duty to resign
all that he had planned, and partly executed, to this incompetent,
ignorant rule.  He could certainly, when not serving the Emperor, go and
act for himself at Thekla's dower castle of Felsenbach, and his mother
might save things from going to utter ruin at Adlerstein; but no
reflection or self-reproach could make it otherwise than a bitter pill to
any Telemachus to have to resign to one so unlike Ulysses in all but the
length of his wanderings,--one, also, who seemed only half to like, and
not at all to comprehend, his Telemachus.

Meantime Ebbo attended to such matters as were sure to come each day
before the Herr Freiherr.  Now it was a question whether the stone for
the mill should be quarried where it would undermine a bit of grass land,
or further on, where the road was rougher; now Berend's swine had got
into Barthel's rye, and Barthel had severely hurt one of them--the Herr
Freiherr's interference could alone prevent a hopeless quarrel; now a
waggon with ironwork for the mill claimed exemption from toll as being
for the Baron: and he must send down the toll, to obviate injustice
towards Schlangenwald and Ulm.  Old Ulrich's grandson, who had run away
for a lanzknecht, had sent a letter home (written by a comrade), the
Baron must read and answer it.  Steinmark's son wanted to be a poor
student: the Herr Freiherr must write him a letter of recommendation.
Mother Grethel's ewe had fallen into a cleft; her son came to borrow a
rope, and ask aid, and the Baron must superintend the hoisting the poor
beast up again.  Hans had found the track of a wolf, and knew the hole
where a litter of cubs abode; the Freiherr, his wolf-hound, and his spear
were wanted for their destruction.  Dietrich could not tell how to manage
his new arquebus: the Baron must teach him to take aim.  Then there was a
letter from Ulm to invite the Baron to consult on the tax demanded by the
Emperor for his Italian war, and how far it should concern the profits of
the bridge; and another letter from the Markgraf of Wurtemburg, as chief
of the Swabian League, requesting the Lord of Adlerstein to be on the
look-out for a band of robbers, who were reported to be in neighbouring
hills, after being hunted out of some of their other lurking-places.

That very night, or rather nearly at the dawn of a summer morning, there
was a yelling below the castle, and a flashing of torches, and tidings
rang through it that a boor on the outskirts of the mountain had had his
ricks fired and his cattle driven by the robbers, and his young daughters
carried off.  Old Sir Eberhard hobbled down to the hall in time to see
weapons flashing as they were dealt out, to hear a clear decided voice
giving orders, to listen to the tramp of horse, and watch more reitern
pass out under the gateway than ever the castle had counted in his
father's time.  Then he went back to his bed, and when he came down in
the morning, found all the womankind of the castle roasting and boiling.
And, at noon, little Thekla came rushing down from the watch-tower with
news that all were coming home up the Eagle's Steps, and she was sure
_her_ baron had sent her, and waved to her.  Soon after, _her_ baron in
his glittering steel rode his cream-coloured charger (once Friedel's)
into the castle court, followed by his exultant merrymen.  They had
overtaken the thieves in good time, made them captives, and recovered the
spoil unhurt; and Heinz and Koppel made the castle ring with the deed of
their young lord, who had forced the huge leader of the band to the
earth, and kept him down by main strength till they could come to bind
him
slowly asked Sir Eberhard, who had been stirred into
excitement
said Ebbo
said Heinz, looking from his old master to his
young one
asked the old knight
said Ebbo
Sir Eberhard retired to his chair as if all had gone past his
understanding, and thence he looked on while his son and wife hospitably
regaled, and then dismissed, their auxiliaries in the rescue.

Afterwards Christina told her son that she thought his father was rested,
and would be better able to attend to him, and Ebbo, with a painful
swelling in his heart, approached him deferentially, with a request that
he would say what was his pleasure with regard to the Emperor, to whom
acknowledgments must in the first place be made for his release, and next
would arise the whole question of homage and investiture
said Sir Eberhard, rousing himself
cried the ardent Ebbo
said Sir Eberhard
added Ebbo
THE year 1531 has begun, and Schloss Adlerstein remains in its strength
on the mountain side, but with a look of cultivation on its environs such
as would have amazed Kunigunde.  Vines run up trellises against the
rocks; pot-herbs and flowers nestle in the nooks; outbuildings cluster
round it; and even the grim old keep has a range of buildings connected
with it, as if the household had entirely outgrown the capacities of the
square tower.

Yet the old hall is still the chief place of assembly, and now that it
has been wainscoted, with a screen of carved wood to shut off the
draughty passages, and a stove of bright tiles to increase the warmth, it
is far more cheerful.  Moreover, a window has been opened showing the
rich green meadow below, with the bridge over the Braunwasser, and the
little church, with a spire of pierced lace-work, and white cottages
peeping out of the retreating forest.

That is the window which the Lady Baroness loves.  See her there, the
lovely old lady of seventy-five--yes, lovelier than ever, for her sweet
brown eyes have the same pensive, clear beauty, enhanced by the snowy
whiteness of her hair, of which a soft braid shows over the pure pale
brow beneath the white band, and sweeping black veil, that she has worn
by right for twenty years.  But the slight form is active and brisk, and
there are ready smiles and looks of interest for the pretty fair-haired
maidens, three in number, who run in and out from their household
avocations to appeal to the
mischievously to tell of
the direful yawns proceeding from brothers Ebbo and Gottfried over their
studies with their tutor, or to gaze from the window and wonder if the
father, with the two brothers, Friedel Max and Kasimir, will return from
Ulm in time for the
Ah! there they are.  Quick-eyed Vittoria has seen the cavalcade first,
and dances off to tell Ermentrude and Stine time enough to prepare their
last batch of fritters for the new-comers; Ebbo and Gotz rush headlong
down the hillside; and the Lady Baroness lays down her distaff, and gazes
with eyes of satisfied content at the small party of horsemen climbing up
the footpath.  Then, when they have wound out of sight round a rock, she
moves out towards the hall-door, with a light, quick step, for never yet
has she resigned her great enjoyment, that of greeting her son on the
steps of the porch--those steps where she once met such fearful news, but
where that memory has been effaced by many a cheerful welcome.

There, then, she stands, amid the bright throng of grandchildren, while
the Baron and his sons spring from their horses and come up to her.  The
Baron doffs his Spanish hat, bends the knee, kisses her hand, and
receives her kiss on his brow, with the fervour of a life-devotion,
before he turns to accept the salutation of his daughters, and then takes
her hand, with pretty affectionate ceremony, to hand her back to her
seat.  A few words pass between them
he says
And then the mid-day meal is served for the whole household, as of old,
with the salt-cellar in the middle, but with a far larger company above
it than when first we saw it.  The seven young folks preserve a decorous
silence, save when Fraulein Ermentrude's cookeries are good-naturedly
complimented by her father, or when Baron Friedmund Maximilianus breaks
out with some wonderful fact about new armour seen at Ulm.  He is a
handsome, fair, flaxen-haired young man--like the old Adlersteins, say the
elder people--and full of honest gaiety and good nature, the special pride
of his sisters; and no sooner is the meal over, than, with a formal
entreaty for dismissal, all the seven, and all the dogs, move off
together, to that favourite gathering-place round the stove, where all
their merry tongues are let loose together.

To them, the Herr Vater and the Frau Grossmutter seem nearly of the same
age, and of the same generation; and verily the eighteen years between
the mother and son have dwindled into a very small difference even in
appearance, and a lesser one in feeling.  She is a youthful, beautiful
old lady; he a grave, spare, worn, elderly man, in his full strength, but
with many a trace of care and thought, and far more of silver than of
brown in his thin hair and pointed beard, and with a melancholy
thoughtfulness in his clear brown eyes--all well corresponding with the
gravity of the dress in which he has been meeting the burghers of Ulm; a
black velvet suit--only relieved by his small white lace ruff, and the
ribbon and jewel of the Golden Fleece, the only other approach to
ornament that he wears being that ring long ago twisted off the Emperor
Maximilian's chain.  But now, as he has bowed off the chaplain to his
study, and excused himself from aiding his two gentlemen-squires in
consuming their krug of beer, and hands his mother to her favourite nook
in the sunny window, taking his seat by her side, his features assume an
expression of repose and relaxation as if here indeed were his true home.
He has chosen his seat in full view of a picture that hangs on the
wainscoted wall, near his mother--a picture whose pure ethereal tinting,
of colour limpid as the rainbow, yet rich as the most glowing
flower-beds; and its soft lovely _pose_, and rounded outlines, prove it
to be no produce even of one of the great German artists of the time, but
to have been wrought, under an Italian sky, by such a hand as left us the
marvellous smile of Mona Lisa.  It represents two figures, one
unmistakably himself when in the prime of life, his brow and cheeks
unfurrowed, and his hair still thick, shining brown, but with the same
grave earnestness of the dark eye that came with the early sense of
responsibility, and with the first sorrow of his youth.  The other
figure, one on which the painter evidently loved to dwell, is of a lady,
so young that she might almost pass for his daughter, except for the
peculiar, tender sweetness that could only become the wife and mother.
Fair she is as snow, with scarce a deepening of the rose on cheek, or
even lip, fragile and transparent as a spiritual form, and with a light
in the blue eyes, and a grace in the soft fugitive smile, that scarce
seems to belong to earth; a beauty not exactly of feature, but rather the
pathetic loveliness of calm fading away--as if she were already melting
into the clear blue sky with the horizon of golden light, that the
wondrous power of art has made to harmonize with, but not efface, her
blue dress, golden hair, white coif, and fair skin.  It is as if she
belonged to that sky, and only tarried as unable to detach herself from
the clasp of the strong hand round and in which both her hands are
twined; and though the light in her face may be from heaven, yet the
whole countenance is fixed in one absorbed, almost worshipping gaze of
her husband, with a wistful simplicity and innocence on devotion, like
the absorption of a loving animal, to whom its master's presence is bliss
and sunshine.  It is a picture to make light in a dark place, and that
sweet face receives a loving glance, nay, an absolutely reverent bend of
the knightly head, as the Baron seats himself
she asks, reading his features anxiously
Travellers in Wurtemburg may perhaps turn aside from glorious old Ulm,
and the memories of the battlefields around it, to the romantic country
round the Swabian mountains, through which descend the tributaries of the
Danube.  Here they may think themselves fortunate if they come upon a
green valley, with a bright mountain torrent dashing through it, fresh
from the lofty mountain, with terraced sides that rise sheer above.  An
old bridge, a mill, and a neat German village lie clustered in the
valley; a seignorial mansion peeps out of the forest glades; and a lovely
church, of rather late Gothic, but beautifully designed, attracts the eye
so soon as it can be persuaded to quit the romantic outline of the ruined
baronial castle high up on one of the mountain ledges.  Report declares
that there are tombs in the church well worth inspection.  You seek out
an old venerable blue-coated peasant who has charge of the church
The church is very beautiful in its details, the carved work of the east
end and pulpit especially so, but nothing is so attractive as the altar
tomb in the chantry chapel.  It is a double one, holding not, as usual,
the recumbent effigies of a husband and wife, but of two knights in
armour
Father and son they appear to be, killed at the same time in some fatal
battle, for the white marble face of one is round with youth, no hair on
lip nor chin, and with a lovely peaceful solemnity, almost cheerfulness,
in the expression.  The other, a bearded man, has the glory of old age in
his worn features, beautiful and restful, but it is as if one had gone to
sleep in the light of dawn, the other in the last glow of sunset.  Their
armour and their crests are alike, but the young one bears the eagle
shield alone, while the elder has the same bearing repeated upon an
escutcheon of pretence; the young man's hands are clasped over a harp,
those of the other over a Bible, and the elder wears the insignia of the
order of the Golden Fleece.  They are surely father and son, a maiden
knight and tried warrior who fell together
the guide shakes his head
You turn with a smile to the inscription, sure that those windows, those
porches, that armour, never were of crusading date, and ready to refute
the old peasant.  You spell out the upright Gothic letters around the
cornice of the tomb, and you read, in mediaeval Latin
Then turn to the other side and read
Yes, the guide is right.  They are brothers, with well-nigh a lifetime
between their deaths.  Is that the meaning of that strange _Demum_?

Few of the other tombs are worth attention, each lapsing further into the
bad taste of later ages; yet there is one still deserving admiration,
placed close to the head of that of the two Barons.  It is the effigy of
a lady, aged and serene, with a delicately-carved face beneath her stiff
head-gear.  Surely this monument was erected somewhat later, for the
inscription is in German.  Stiff, contracted, hard to read, but this is
the rendering of it
THE END
</text>
