<text>
On a bright autumn day, as long ago as the year 943, there was a great
bustle in the Castle of Bayeux in Normandy.

The hall was large and low, the roof arched, and supported on thick short
columns, almost like the crypt of a Cathedral; the walls were thick, and
the windows, which had no glass, were very small, set in such a depth of
wall that there was a wide deep window seat, upon which the rain might
beat, without reaching the interior of the room.  And even if it had come
in, there was nothing for it to hurt, for the walls were of rough stone,
and the floor of tiles.  There was a fire at each end of this great dark
apartment, but there were no chimneys over the ample hearths, and the
smoke curled about in thick white folds in the vaulted roof, adding to
the wreaths of soot, which made the hall look still darker.

The fire at the lower end was by far the largest and hottest.  Great
black cauldrons hung over it, and servants, both men and women, with red
faces, bare and grimed arms, and long iron hooks, or pots and pans, were
busied around it.  At the other end, which was raised about three steps
above the floor of the hall, other servants were engaged.  Two young
maidens were strewing fresh rushes on the floor; some men were setting up
a long table of rough boards, supported on trestles, and then ranging
upon it silver cups, drinking horns, and wooden trenchers.

Benches were placed to receive most of the guests, but in the middle, at
the place of honour, was a high chair with very thick crossing legs, and
the arms curiously carved with lions' faces and claws; a clumsy wooden
footstool was set in front, and the silver drinking-cup on the table was
of far more beautiful workmanship than the others, richly chased with
vine leaves and grapes, and figures of little boys with goats' legs.  If
that cup could have told its story, it would have been a strange one, for
it had been made long since, in the old Roman times, and been carried off
from Italy by some Northman pirate.

From one of these scenes of activity to the other, there moved a stately
old lady: her long thick light hair, hardly touched with grey, was bound
round her head, under a tall white cap, with a band passing under her
chin: she wore a long sweeping dark robe, with wide hanging sleeves, and
thick gold ear-rings and necklace, which had possibly come from the same
quarter as the cup.  She directed the servants, inspected both the
cookery and arrangements of the table, held council with an old steward,
now and then looked rather anxiously from the window, as if expecting
some one, and began to say something about fears that these loitering
youths would not bring home the venison in time for Duke William's
supper.

Presently, she looked up rejoiced, for a few notes of a bugle-horn were
sounded; there was a clattering of feet, and in a few moments there
bounded into the hall, a boy of about eight years old, his cheeks and
large blue eyes bright with air and exercise, and his long light-brown
hair streaming behind him, as he ran forward flourishing a bow in his
hand, and crying out
And
Richard was beginning to act over again the whole scene of the deer-hunt,
but Fru, that is to say, Lady Astrida, was too busy to listen, and broke
in with
Richard with Dame Estrida&rsqb;

A stout forester was at this instant seen bringing in the venison, and
Dame Astrida hastened to meet it, and gave directions, little Richard
following her all the way, and talking as eagerly as if she was attending
to him, showing how he shot, how Osmond shot, how the deer bounded, and
how it fell, and then counting the branches of its antlers, always ending
with
In the meantime two men entered the hall, one about fifty, the other, one
or two-and-twenty, both in hunting dresses of plain leather, crossed by
broad embroidered belts, supporting a knife, and a bugle-horn.  The elder
was broad-shouldered, sun-burnt, ruddy, and rather stern-looking; the
younger, who was also the taller, was slightly made, and very active,
with a bright keen grey eye, and merry smile.  These were Dame Astrida's
son, Sir Eric de Centeville, and her grandson, Osmond; and to their care
Duke William of Normandy had committed his only child, Richard, to be
fostered, or brought up. {1}

It was always the custom among the Northmen, that young princes should
thus be put under the care of some trusty vassal, instead of being
brought up at home, and one reason why the Centevilles had been chosen by
Duke William was, that both Sir Eric and his mother spoke only the old
Norwegian tongue, which he wished young Richard to understand well,
whereas, in other parts of the Duchy, the Normans had forgotten their own
tongue, and had taken up what was then called the Langued'oui, a language
between German and Latin, which was the beginning of French.

On this day, Duke William himself was expected at Bayeux, to pay a visit
to his son before setting out on a journey to settle the disputes between
the Counts of Flanders and Montreuil, and this was the reason of Fru
Astrida's great preparations.  No sooner had she seen the haunch placed
upon a spit, which a little boy was to turn before the fire, than she
turned to dress something else, namely, the young Prince Richard himself,
whom she led off to one of the upper rooms, and there he had full time to
talk, while she, great lady though she was, herself combed smooth his
long flowing curls, and fastened his short scarlet cloth tunic, which
just reached to his knee, leaving his neck, arms, and legs bare.  He
begged hard to be allowed to wear a short, beautifully ornamented dagger
at his belt, but this Fru Astrida would not allow
said she
answered Richard
said Dame Astrida
said Richard, but half understanding her
he darted to the
window
Away ran the happy child, and never rested till he stood at the bottom of
the long, steep, stone stair, leading to the embattled porch.  Thither
came the Baron de Centeville, and his son, to receive their Prince.
Richard looked up at Osmond, saying
and then
sprang up and shouted for joy, as under the arched gateway there came a
tall black horse, bearing the stately form of the Duke of Normandy.  His
purple robe was fastened round him by a rich belt, sustaining the mighty
weapon, from which he was called
his legs
and feet were cased in linked steel chain-work, his gilded spurs were on
his heels, and his short brown hair was covered by his ducal cap of
purple, turned up with fur, and a feather fastened in by a jewelled
clasp.  His brow was grave and thoughtful, and there was something both
of dignity and sorrow in his face, at the first moment of looking at it,
recalling the recollection that he had early lost his young wife, the
Duchess Emma, and that he was beset by many cares and toils; but the next
glance generally conveyed encouragement, so full of mildness were his
eyes, and so kind the expression of his lips.

And now, how bright a smile beamed upon the little Richard, who, for the
first time, paid him the duty of a pupil in chivalry, by holding the
stirrup while he sprung from his horse.  Next, Richard knelt to receive
his blessing, which was always the custom when children met their
parents.  The Duke laid his hand on his head, saying
and lifting him in his arms, held him to his breast,
and let him cling to his neck and kiss him again and again, before
setting him down, while Sir Eric came forward, bent his knee, kissed the
hand of his Prince, and welcomed him to his Castle.

It would take too long to tell all the friendly and courteous words that
were spoken, the greeting of the Duke and the noble old Lady Astrida, and
the reception of the Barons who had come in the train of their Lord.
Richard was bidden to greet them, but, though he held out his hand as
desired, he shrank a little to his father's side, gazing at them in dread
and shyness.

There was Count Bernard, of Harcourt, called the
2} with his
shaggy red hair and beard, to which a touch of grey had given a strange
unnatural tint, his eyes looking fierce and wild under his thick
eyebrows, one of them mis-shapen in consequence of a sword cut, which had
left a broad red and purple scar across both cheek and forehead.  There,
too, came tall Baron Rainulf, of Ferrieres, cased in a linked steel
hauberk, that rang as he walked, and the men-at-arms, with helmets and
shields, looking as if Sir Eric's armour that hung in the hail had come
to life and was walking about.

They sat down to Fru Astrida's banquet, the old Lady at the Duke's right
hand, and the Count of Harcourt on his left; Osmond carved for the Duke,
and Richard handed his cup and trencher.  All through the meal, the Duke
and his Lords talked earnestly of the expedition on which they were bound
to meet Count Arnulf of Flanders, on a little islet in the river Somme,
there to come to some agreement, by which Arnulf might make restitution
to Count Herluin of Montreuil, for certain wrongs which he had done him.

Some said that this would be the fittest time for requiring Arnulf to
yield up some towns on his borders, to which Normandy had long laid
claim, but the Duke shook his head, saying that he must seek no selfish
advantage, when called to judge between others.

Richard was rather tired of their grave talk, and thought the supper very
long; but at last it was over, the Grace was said, the boards which had
served for tables were removed, and as it was still light, some of the
guests went to see how their steeds had been bestowed, others to look at
Sir Eric's horses and hounds, and others collected together in groups.

The Duke had time to attend to his little boy, and Richard sat upon his
knee and talked, told about all his pleasures, how his arrow had hit the
deer to-day, how Sir Eric let him ride out to the chase on his little
pony, how Osmond would take him to bathe in the cool bright river, and
how he had watched the raven's nest in the top of the old tower.

Duke William listened, and smiled, and seemed as well pleased to hear as
the boy was to tell
said he at last
3
said Richard, in a low voice, playing with the clasp of his
father's belt, and looking down
said the Duke
said Duke William, smiling and Richard, rather
encouraged, went on more boldly
said the Duke
Richard looked up in his father's face, and then hung his
head, as if half-ashamed of questioning his will, but the Duke answered
him without displeasure
said Richard
said Richard, proudly
said Duke William
said Richard, raising his head and looking very
fierce
Richard's eye kindled, and his
words, as he spoke the old Norse language, flowed into the sort of wild
verse in which the Sagas or legendary songs were composed, and which,
perhaps, he was unconsciously repeating.

Duke William looked grave
said he
said Richard, looking up with
wondering dissatisfied eyes
Richard hesitated a little, and then said
said the Duke
said Richard, with rather a subdued tone, and resting his
head on his father's shoulder.  There was a silence for a little space,
during which he began to revive into playfulness, to stroke the Duke's
short curled beard, and play with his embroidered collar.

In so doing, his fingers caught hold of a silver chain, and pulling it
out with a jerk, he saw a silver key attached to it
he asked eagerly
replied Duke William, as he replaced the chain
and key within his robe
said his father, putting the little hand down
from its too busy investigations; and some of the Barons at that moment
returning into the hall, he had no more leisure to bestow on his little
son.

The next day, after morning service in the Chapel, and breakfast in the
hall, the Duke again set forward on his journey, giving Richard hopes he
might return in a fortnight's time, and obtaining from him a promise that
he would be very attentive to Father Lucas, and very obedient to Sir Eric
de Centeville
One evening Fru Astrida sat in her tall chair in the chimney corner, her
distaff, with its load of flax in her hand, while she twisted and drew
out the thread, and her spindle danced on the floor.  Opposite to her
sat, sleeping in his chair, Sir Eric de Centeville; Osmond was on a low
bench within the chimney corner, trimming and shaping with his knife some
feathers of the wild goose, which were to fly in a different fashion from
their former one, and serve, not to wing the flight of a harmless goose,
but of a sharp arrow.

The men of the household sat ranged on benches on one side of the hall,
the women on the other; a great red fire, together with an immense
flickering lamp which hung from the ceiling, supplied the light; the
windows were closed with wooden shutters, and the whole apartment had a
cheerful appearance.  Two or three large hounds were reposing in front of
the hearth, and among them sat little Richard of Normandy, now smoothing
down their broad silken ears; now tickling the large cushions of their
feet with the end of one of Osmond's feathers; now fairly pulling open
the eyes of one of the good-natured sleepy creatures, which only
stretched its legs, and remonstrated with a sort of low groan, rather
than a growl.  The boy's eyes were, all the time, intently fixed on Dame
Astrida, as if he would not lose one word of the story she was telling
him; how Earl Rollo, his grandfather, had sailed into the mouth of the
Seine, and how Archbishop Franco, of Rouen, had come to meet him and
brought him the keys of the town, and how not one Neustrian of Rouen had
met with harm from the brave Northmen.  Then she told him of his
grandfather's baptism, and how during the seven days that he wore his
white baptismal robes, he had made large gifts to all the chief churches
in his dukedom of Normandy
said Richard
said the old lady
Dame Astrida was interrupted.  A bugle note rang out at the castle gate;
the dogs started to their feet, and uttered a sudden deafening bark;
Osmond sprung up, exclaiming
and trying to silence the hounds;
and Richard running to Sir Eric, cried
said Sir Eric, slowly rising, as the blast of the horn was
repeated
he added, as
Richard was running after Osmond; and the little boy obeyed, and stood
still, though quivering all over with impatience
said Fru Astrida
said Richard
Sir Eric, always a man of few words, only shook his head, and at that
moment steps were heard on the stone stairs.  Again Richard was about to
spring forward, when Osmond returned, his face showing, at a glance, that
something was amiss; but all that he said was
and he stood aside to let them
pass.

Richard stood still in the midst of the hall, disappointed.  Without
greeting to Sir Eric, or to any within the hall, the Count of Harcourt
came forward to Richard, bent his knee before him, took his hand, and
said with a broken voice and heaving breast
then rising from his knees while
Rainulf de Ferrieres went through the same form, the old man covered his
face with his hands and wept aloud
said the Baron de Centeville; and being answered by a
mournful look and sigh from Ferrieres, he too bent before the boy, and
repeated the words
cried Richard, drawing back his hand in a sort of agony,
feeling as if he was in a frightful dream from which he could not awake
The oath of the vassals
said the old lady, putting her arm round him, and
drawing him close to her, whilst her tears flowed fast, and Richard
stood, reassured by her embrace, listening with eyes open wide, and deep
oppressed breathing, to what was passing between the four nobles, who
spoke earnestly among themselves, without much heed of him
repeated Sir Eric de Centeville, like one stunned and
stupefied
said Rainulf, slowly and sadly, and the silence was only
broken by the long-drawn sobs of old Count Bernard
broke forth Sir Eric, presently
gloomily replied Sir Rainulf
answered Ferrieres
cried the Baron de Centeville, grasping his good
sword
said Ferrieres
said Sir Eric
said Count Bernard
He threw himself on a bench and covered his face with his mantle, while
Rainulf de Ferrieres proceeded
interposed Bernard
continued Rainulf
proceeded the Norman, clenching his hands, and
speaking between his teeth
cried Richard, starting forward; for to
his childish fancy this dreadful history was more like one of Dame
Astrida's legends than a reality, and at the moment his thought was only
of the blackness of the treason
He broke off short, for he remembered how his father had forbidden his
denunciations of vengeance, but his words were eagerly caught up by the
Barons, who, as Duke William had said, were far from possessing any
temper of forgiveness, thought revenge a duty, and were only glad to see
a warlike spirit in their new Prince
exclaimed old Count Bernard, rising
Richard drew up his head, and his heart throbbed high as Sir Eric made
answer
said Bernard
said Richard, carried away by the applause excited by
those few words of his
answered Bernard
Richard drooped his head without replying, for this seemed to bring to
him the perception that his father was really gone, and that he should
never see him again.  He thought of all his projects for the day of his
return, how he had almost counted the hours, and had looked forward to
telling him that Father Lucas was well pleased with him!  And now he
should never nestle into his breast again, never hear his voice, never
see those kind eyes beam upon him.  Large tears gathered in his eyes, and
ashamed that they should be seen, he sat down on a footstool at Fru
Astrida's feet, leant his forehead on his hands, and thought over all
that his father had done and said the last time they were together.  He
fancied the return that had been promised, going over the meeting and the
greeting, till he had almost persuaded himself that this dreadful story
was but a dream.  But when he looked up, there were the Barons, with
their grave mournful faces, speaking of the corpse, which Duke Alan of
Brittany was escorting to Rouen, there to be buried beside the old Duke
Rollo, and the Duchess Emma, Richard's mother.  Then he lost himself in
wonder how that stiff bleeding body could be the same as the father whose
arm was so lately around him, and whether his father's spirit knew how he
was thinking of him; and in these dreamy thoughts, the young orphan Duke
of Normandy, forgotten by his vassals in their grave councils, fell
asleep, and scarce wakened enough to attend to his prayers, when Fru
Astrida at length remembered him, and led him away to bed.

When Richard awoke the next morning, he could hardly believe that all
that had passed in the evening was true, but soon he found that it was
but too real, and all was prepared for him to go to Rouen with the
vassals; indeed, it was for no other purpose than to fetch him that the
Count of Harcourt had come to Bayeux.  Fru Astrida was quite unhappy that
as she called him, should go alone with the warriors; but
Sir Eric laughed at her, and said that it would never do for the Duke of
Normandy to bring his nurse with him in his first entry into Rouen, and
she must be content to follow at some space behind under the escort of
Walter the huntsman.

So she took leave of Richard, charging both Sir Eric and Osmond to have
the utmost care of him, and shedding tears as if the parting was to be
for a much longer space; then he bade farewell to the servants of the
castle, received the blessing of Father Lucas, and mounting his pony,
rode off between Sir Eric and Count Bernard.  Richard was but a little
boy, and he did not think so much of his loss, as he rode along in the
free morning air, feeling himself a Prince at the head of his vassals,
his banner displayed before him, and the people coming out wherever he
passed to gaze on him, and call for blessings on his name.  Rainulf de
Ferrieres carried a large heavy purse filled with silver and gold, and
whenever they came to these gazing crowds, Richard was well pleased to
thrust his hands deep into it, and scatter handfuls of coins among the
gazers, especially where he saw little children.

They stopped to dine and rest in the middle of the day, at the castle of
a Baron, who, as soon as the meal was over, mounted his horse, and joined
them in their ride to Rouen.  So far it had not been very different from
Richard's last journey, when he went to keep Christmas there with his
father; but now they were beginning to come nearer the town, he knew the
broad river Seine again, and saw the square tower of the Cathedral, and
he remembered how at that very place his father had met him, and how he
had ridden by his side into the town, and had been led by his hand up to
the hall.

His heart was very heavy, as he recollected there was no one now to meet
and welcome him; scarcely any one to whom he could even tell his
thoughts, for those tall grave Barons had nothing to say to such a little
boy, and the very respect and formality with which they treated him, made
him shrink from them still more, especially from the grim-faced Bernard;
and Osmond, his own friend and playfellow, was obliged to ride far
behind, as inferior in rank.

They entered the town just as it was growing dark.  Count Bernard looked
back and arrayed the procession; Eric de Centeville bade Richard sit
upright and not look weary, and then all the Knights held back while the
little Duke rode alone a little in advance of them through the gateway.
There was a loud shout of
and crowds of
people were standing round to gaze upon his entry, so many that the bag
of coins was soon emptied by his largesses.  The whole city was like one
great castle, shut in by a wall and moat, and with Rollo's Tower rising
at one end like the keep of a castle, and it was thither that Richard was
turning his horse, when the Count of Harcourt said
7}

It was then considered a duty to be paid to the deceased, that their
relatives and friends should visit them as they lay in state, and
sprinkle them with drops of holy water, and Richard was now to pay this
token of respect.  He trembled a little, and yet it did not seem quite so
dreary, since he should once more look on his father's face, and he
accordingly rode towards the Cathedral.  It was then very unlike what it
is now; the walls were very thick, the windows small and almost buried in
heavy carved arches, the columns within were low, clumsy, and circular,
and it was usually so dark that the vaulting of the roof could scarcely
be seen.

Now, however, a whole flood of light poured forth from every window, and
when Richard came to the door, he saw not only the two tall thick candles
that always burnt on each side of the Altar, but in the Chancel stood a
double row ranged in a square, shedding a pure, quiet brilliancy
throughout the building, and chiefly on the silver and gold ornaments of
the Altar.  Outside these lights knelt a row of priests in dark garments,
their heads bowed over their clasped hands, and their chanted psalms
sounding sweet, and full of soothing music.  Within that guarded space
was a bier, and a form lay on it.

Richard trembled still more with awe, and would have paused, but he was
obliged to proceed.  He dipped his hand in the water of the font, crossed
his brow, and came slowly on, sprinkled the remaining drops on the
lifeless figure, and then stood still.  There was an oppression on his
breast as if he could neither breathe nor move.

There lay William of the Long Sword, like a good and true Christian
warrior, arrayed in his shining armour, his sword by his side, his shield
on his arm, and a cross between his hands, clasped upon his breast.  His
ducal mantle of crimson velvet, lined with ermine, was round his
shoulders, and, instead of a helmet, his coronet was on his head; but, in
contrast with this rich array, over the collar of the hauberk, was folded
the edge of a rough hair shirt, which the Duke had worn beneath his
robes, unknown to all, until his corpse was disrobed of his blood-stained
garments.  His face looked full of calm, solemn peace, as if he had
gently fallen asleep, and was only awaiting the great call to awaken.
There was not a single token of violence visible about him, save that one
side of his forehead bore a deep purple mark, where he had first been
struck by the blow of the oar which had deprived him of sense
said Count Bernard, first breaking the silence,
in a low, deep, stern voice.

Richard had heard little for many hours past save counsels against the
Flemings, and plans of bitter enmity against them; and the sight of his
murdered father, with that look and tone of the old Dane, fired his
spirit, and breaking from his trance of silent awe and grief, he
exclaimed
Then, encouraged by the applauding looks of the nobles, he proceeded,
feeling like one of the young champions of Fru Astrida's songs.  His
cheek was coloured, his eye lighted up, and he lifted his head, so that
the hair fell back from his forehead; he laid his hand on the hilt of his
father's sword, and spoke on in words, perhaps, suggested by some sage
The rest was left unspoken, for a hand was laid on his arm.  A priest,
who had hitherto been kneeling near the head of the corpse, had risen,
and stood tall and dark over him, and, looking up, he recognized the
pale, grave countenance of Martin, Abbot of Jumieges, his father's chief
friend and councillor
said he, sternly
Richard made no answer, but he covered his face with his hands, to hide
the tears which were fast streaming
exclaimed Bernard the Dane
said Abbot Martin
The Barons were silenced, whatever their thoughts might be, and Abbot
Martin turned to Richard, whose tears were still dropping fast through
his fingers, as the thought of those last words of his father returned
more clearly upon him.  The Abbot laid his hand on his head, and spoke
gently to him
said he
said Richard, as well as he could speak
said the priest, pointing to the large Cross over the Altar
Richard bowed his head in assent and reverence
continued the Abbot
said Richard, looking up
and again his voice
was cut off by tears
said Martin
Richard wept too bitterly to speak, and Bernard de Harcourt, taking his
hand, led him away from the Church
Duke William of the Long Sword was buried the next morning in high pomp
and state, with many a prayer and psalm chanted over his grave.

When this was over, little Richard, who had all the time stood or knelt
nearest the corpse, in one dull heavy dream of wonder and sorrow, was led
back to the palace, and there his long, heavy, black garments were taken
off, and he was dressed in his short scarlet tunic, his hair was
carefully arranged, and then he came down again into the hall, where
there was a great assembly of Barons, some in armour, some in long furred
gowns, who had all been attending his father's burial.  Richard, as he
was desired by Sir Eric de Centeville, took off his cap, and bowed low in
reply to the reverences with which they all greeted his entrance, and he
then slowly crossed the hall, and descended the steps from the door,
while they formed into a procession behind him, according to their
ranks -- the Duke of Brittany first, and then all the rest, down to the
poorest knight who held his manor immediately from the Duke of Normandy.

Thus, they proceeded, in slow and solemn order, till they came to the
church of our Lady.  The clergy were there already, ranged in ranks on
each side of the Choir; and the Bishops, in their mitres and rich robes,
each with his pastoral staff in his hand, were standing round the Altar.
As the little Duke entered, there arose from all the voices in the
Chancel the full, loud, clear chant of _Te Deum Laudamus_, echoing among
the dark vaults of the roof.  To that sound, Richard walked up the Choir,
to a large, heavy, crossed-legged, carved chair, raised on two steps,
just before the steps of the Altar began, and there he stood, Bernard de
Harcourt and Eric de Centeville on each side of him, and all his other
vassals in due order, in the Choir.

After the beautiful chant of the hymn was ended, the service for the Holy
Communion began.  When the time came for the offering, each noble gave
gold or silver; and, lastly, Rainulf of Ferrieres came up to the step of
the Altar with a cushion, on which was placed a circlet of gold, the
ducal coronet; and another Baron, following him closely, carried a long,
heavy sword, with a cross handle.  The Archbishop of Rouen received both
coronet and sword, and laid them on the Altar.  Then the service
proceeded.  At that time the rite of Confirmation was administered in
infancy, and Richard, who had been confirmed by his godfather, the
Archbishop of Rouen, immediately after his baptism, knelt in solemn awe
to receive the other Holy Sacrament from his hands, as soon as all the
clergy had communicated. {8}

When the administration was over, Richard was led forward to the step of
the Altar by Count Bernard, and Sir Eric, and the Archbishop, laying one
hand upon both his, as he held them clasped together, demanded of him, in
the name of God, and of the people of Normandy, whether he would be their
good and true ruler, guard them from their foes, maintain truth, punish
iniquity, and protect the Church
answered Richard's young, trembling voice
and he knelt, and kissed the book of the Holy Gospels, which the
Archbishop offered him.

It was a great and awful oath, and he dreaded to think that he had taken
it.  He still knelt, put both hands over his face, and whispered
The Archbishop waited till he rose, and then, turning him with his face
to the people, said
Two of the Bishops then hung round his shoulders a crimson velvet mantle,
furred with ermine, which, made as it was for a grown man, hung heavily
on the poor child's shoulders, and lay in heaps on the ground.  The
Archbishop then set the golden coronet on his long, flowing hair, where
it hung so loosely on the little head, that Sir Eric was obliged to put
his hand to it to hold it safe; and, lastly, the long, straight,
two-handed sword was brought and placed in his hand, with another solemn
bidding to use it ever in maintaining the right.  It should have been
girded to his side, but the great sword was so much taller than the
little Duke, that, as it stood upright by him, he was obliged to raise
his arm to put it round the handle.

He then had to return to his throne, which was not done without some
difficulty, encumbered as he was, but Osmond held up the train of his
mantle, Sir Eric kept the coronet on his head, and he himself held fast
and lovingly the sword, though the Count of Harcourt offered to carry it
for him.  He was lifted up to his throne, and then came the paying him
homage; Alan, Duke of Brittany, was the first to kneel before him, and
with his hand between those of the Duke, he swore to be his man, to obey
him, and pay him feudal service for his dukedom of Brittany.  In return,
Richard swore to be his good Lord, and to protect him from all his foes.
Then followed Bernard the Dane, and many another, each repeating the same
formulary, as their large rugged hands were clasped within those little
soft fingers.  Many a kind and loving eye was bent in compassion on the
orphan child; many a strong voice faltered with earnestness as it
pronounced the vow, and many a brave, stalwart heart heaved with grief
for the murdered father, and tears flowed down the war-worn cheeks which
had met the fiercest storms of the northern ocean, as they bent before
the young fatherless boy, whom they loved for the sake of his conquering
grandfather, and his brave and pious father.  Few Normans were there
whose hearts did not glow at the touch of those small hands, with a love
almost of a parent, for their young Duke.

The ceremony of receiving homage lasted long and Richard, though
interested and touched at first, grew very weary; the crown and mantle
were so heavy, the faces succeeded each other like figures in an endless
dream, and the constant repetition of the same words was very tedious.
He grew sleepy, he longed to jump up, to lean to the right or left, or to
speak something besides that regular form.  He gave one great yawn, but
it brought him such a frown from the stern face of Bernard, as quite to
wake him for a few minutes, and make him sit upright, and receive the
next vassal with as much attention as he had shown the first, but he
looked imploringly at Sir Eric, as if to ask if it ever would be over.
At last, far down among the Barons, came one at whose sight Richard
revived a little.  It was a boy only a few years older than himself,
perhaps about ten, with a pleasant brown face, black hair, and quick
black eyes which glanced, with a look between friendliness and respect,
up into the little Duke's gazing face.  Richard listened eagerly for his
name, and was refreshed at the sound of the boyish voice which
pronounced
When Alberic moved away, Richard followed him with his eye as far as he
could to his place in the Cathedral, and was taken by surprise when he
found the next Baron kneeling before him.

The ceremony of homage came to an end at last, and Richard would fain
have run all the way to the palace to shake off his weariness, but he was
obliged to head the procession again; and even when he reached the castle
hall his toils were not over, for there was a great state banquet spread
out, and he had to sit in the high chair where he remembered climbing on
his father's knee last Christmas-day, all the time that the Barons
feasted round, and held grave converse.  Richard's best comfort all this
time was in watching Osmond de Centeville and Alberic de Montemar, who,
with the other youths who were not yet knighted, were waiting on those
who sat at the table.  At last he grew so very weary, that he fell fast
asleep in the corner of his chair, and did not wake till he was startled
by the rough voice of Bernard de Harcourt, calling him to rouse up, and
bid the Duke of Brittany farewell
said Duke Alan, as Richard rose up, startled
said Richard, willingly giving his hand to be shaken by
his kind vassal, and watching him as Sir Eric attended him from the hall
muttered Bernard
said Rainulf de
Ferrieres
There was some consultation here in a low voice, and the next thing
Richard heard distinctly was, that one of the Nobles held up a silver
chain and key, {9} saying that they had been found on the Duke's neck,
and that he had kept them, thinking that they doubtless led to something
of importance
said Richard, eagerly
The Normans heard this with great interest, and it was resolved that
several of the most trusted persons, among whom were the Archbishop of
Rouen, Abbot Martin of Jumieges, and the Count of Harcourt, should go
immediately in search of this precious hoard.  Richard accompanied them
up the narrow rough stone stairs, to the large dark apartment, where his
father had slept.  Though a Prince's chamber, it had little furniture; a
low uncurtained bed, a Cross on a ledge near its head, a rude table, a
few chairs, and two large chests, were all it contained.  Harcourt tried
the lid of one of the chests: it opened, and proved to be full of wearing
apparel; he went to the other, which was smaller, much more carved, and
ornamented with very handsome iron-work.  It was locked, and putting in
the key, it fitted, the lock turned, and the chest was opened.  The
Normans pressed eagerly to see their Duke's greatest treasure.

It was a robe of serge, and a pair of sandals, such as were worn in the
Abbey of Jumieges
cried Bernard the Dane,
hastily
repeated Richard
said Abbot Martin.

Then the good Abbot told them the history, part of which was already
known to some of them.  About five or six years before, Duke William had
been hunting in the forest of Jumieges, when he had suddenly come on the
ruins of the Abbey, which had been wasted thirty or forty years
previously by the Sea-King, Hasting.  Two old monks, of the original
brotherhood, still survived, and came forth to greet the Duke, and offer
him their hospitality
said Bernard
William, then an eager, thoughtless young man, turned with disgust from
this wretched fare, and throwing the old men some gold, galloped on to
enjoy his hunting.  In the course of the sport, he was left alone, and
encountered a wild boar, which threw him down, trampled on him, and left
him stretched senseless on the ground, severely injured.  His companions
coming up, carried him, as the nearest place of shelter, to the ruins of
Jumieges, where the two old monks gladly received him in the remaining
portion of their house.  As soon as he recovered his senses, he earnestly
asked their pardon for his pride, and the scorn he had shown to the
poverty and patient suffering which he should have reverenced.

William had always been a man who chose the good and refused the evil,
but this accident, and the long illness that followed it, made him far
more thoughtful and serious than he had ever been before; he made
preparing for death and eternity his first object, and thought less of
his worldly affairs, his wars, and his ducal state.  He rebuilt the old
Abbey, endowed it richly, and sent for Martin himself from France, to
become the Abbot; he delighted in nothing so much as praying there,
conversing with the Abbot, and hearing him read holy books; and he felt
his temporal affairs, and the state and splendour of his rank, so great a
temptation, that he had one day come to the Abbot, and entreated to be
allowed to lay them aside, and become a brother of the order.  But Martin
had refused to receive his vows.  He had told him that he had no right to
neglect or forsake the duties of the station which God had appointed him;
that it would be a sin to leave the post which had been given him to
defend; and that the way marked out for him to serve God was by doing
justice among his people, and using his power to defend the right.  Not
till he had done his allotted work, and his son was old enough to take
his place as ruler of the Normans, might he cease from his active duties,
quit the turmoil of the world, and seek the repose of the cloister.  It
was in this hope of peaceful retirement, that William had delighted to
treasure up the humble garments that he hoped one day to wear in peace
and holiness
exclaimed Abbot Martin, bursting into tears, as
he finished his narration
Slowly, and with subdued feelings, the Norman Barons left the chamber;
Richard, whom they seemed to have almost forgotten, wandered to the
stairs, to find his way to the room where he had slept last night.  He
had not made many steps before he heard Osmond's voice say
he looked up, saw a white cap at a doorway a little above him, he
bounded up and flew into Dame Astrida's outstretched arms.

How glad he was to sit in her lap, and lay his wearied head on her bosom,
while, with a worn-out voice, he exclaimed
Richard of Normandy was very anxious to know more of the little boy whom
he had seen among his vassals
said Sir Eric
Richard had never had a playfellow of his own age, and his eagerness to
see Alberic de Montemar was great.  He watched from the window, and at
length beheld Osmond entering the court with a boy of ten years old by
his side, and an old grey-headed Squire, with a golden chain to mark him
as a Seneschal or Steward of the Castle, walking behind.

Richard ran to the door to meet them, holding out his hand eagerly.
Alberic uncovered his bright dark hair, bowed low and gracefully, but
stood as if he did not exactly know what to do next.  Richard grew shy at
the same moment, and the two boys stood looking at each other somewhat
awkwardly.  It was easy to see that they were of different races, so
unlike were the blue eyes, flaxen hair, and fair face of the young Duke,
to the black flashing eyes and olive cheek of his French vassal, who,
though two years older, was scarcely above him in height; and his slight
figure, well-proportioned, active and agile as it was, did not give the
same promise of strength as the round limbs and large-boned frame of
Richard, which even now seemed likely to rival the gigantic stature of
his grandfather, Earl Rollo, the Ganger.

For some minutes the little Duke and the young Baron stood surveying each
other without a word, and old Sir Eric did not improve matters by saying
said Fru Astrida, seeing how they both
coloured
Alberic blushed more deeply, bowed to the old northern lady, and answered
fast and low in French
Richard, glad to say something, interpreted Fru Astrida's speech, and
Alberic readily made courteous reply that his mother was well, and he
thanked the Dame de Centeville, a French title which sounded new to Fru
Astrida's ears.  Then came the embarrassment again, and Fru Astrida at
last said
Richard was not sorry to obey, so out they went into the court of Rollo's
tower, and in the open air the shyness went off.  Richard showed his own
pony, and Alberic asked if he could leap into the saddle without putting
his foot in the stirrup.  No, Richard could not; indeed, even Osmond had
never seen it done, for the feats of French chivalry had scarcely yet
spread into Normandy
said Richard
said Alberic
So the pony was led out.  Alberic laid one hand on its mane, and vaulted
on its back in a moment.  Both Osmond and Richard broke out loudly into
admiration
said Alberic
Richard begged to be shown how to perform the exploit, and Alberic
repeated it; then Richard wanted to try, but the pony's patience would
not endure any longer, and Alberic said he had learnt on a block of wood,
and practised on the great wolf-hound.  They wandered about a little
longer in the court, and then climbed up the spiral stone stairs to the
battlements at the top of the tower, where they looked at the house-tops
of Rouen close beneath, and the river Seine, broadening and glittering on
one side in its course to the sea, and on the other narrowing to a blue
ribbon, winding through the green expanse of fertile Normandy.  They
threw the pebbles and bits of mortar down that they might hear them fall,
and tried which could stand nearest to the edge of the battlement without
being giddy.  Richard was pleased to find that he could go the nearest,
and began to tell some of Fru Astrida's stories about the precipices of
Norway, among which when she was a young girl she used to climb about and
tend the cattle in the long light summer time.  When the two boys came
down again into the hall to dinner, they felt as if they had known each
other all their lives.  The dinner was laid out in full state, and
Richard had, as before, to sit in the great throne-like chair with the
old Count of Harcourt on one side, but, to his comfort, Fru Astrida was
on the other.

After the dinner, Alberic de Montemar rose to take his leave, as he was
to ride half way to his home that afternoon.  Count Bernard, who all
dinner time had been watching him intently from under his shaggy
eye-brows, at this moment turned to Richard, whom he hardly ever
addressed, and said to him
cried Richard, eagerly
cried Richard, jumping out of his chair of state, and
running up to him
Alberic looked down hesitating
said Alberic
said Bernard
This rough speech seemed to restore the little Baron's self-possession,
and he looked up bright and bold at the rugged face of the old Dane,
while he said
said the old Count, laying his great
hand on Alberic's head, and looking better pleased than Richard thought
his grim features could have appeared.  Then turning to Bertrand,
Alberic's Seneschal, he said
said Richard
answered Alberic bluntly, and with
all due civilities he and his Seneschal departed.

Four or five times a day did Richard ask Osmond and Fru Astrida if they
thought Alberic would return, and it was a great satisfaction to him to
find that every one agreed that it would be very foolish in the Dame de
Montemar to refuse so good an offer, only Fru Astrida could not quite
believe she would part with her son.  Still no Baron de Montemar arrived,
and the little Duke was beginning to think less about his hopes, when one
evening, as he was returning from a ride with Sir Eric and Osmond, he saw
four horsemen coming towards them, and a little boy in front
he exclaimed, and so it proved;
and while the Seneschal delivered his Lady's message to Sir Eric, Richard
rode up and greeted the welcome guest
said Alberic
Richard was extremely delighted, and thought he could never do enough to
make Rouen pleasant to Alberic, who after the first day or two cheered
up, missed his mother less, managed to talk something between French and
Norman to Sir Eric and Fru Astrida, and became a very animated companion
and friend.  In one respect Alberic was a better playfellow for the Duke
than Osmond de Centeville, for Osmond, playing as a grown up man, not for
his own amusement, but the child's, had left all the advantages of the
game to Richard, who was growing not a little inclined to domineer.  This
Alberic did not like, unless, as he said
and he played with so
little animation that Richard grew vexed
said Alberic
However, Alberic was quite as courteous and respectful to the Duke when
they were not at play, as the difference of their rank required; indeed,
he had learnt much more of grace and courtliness of demeanour from his
mother, a Provencal lady, than was yet to be found among the Normans.
The Chaplain of Montemar had begun to teach him to read and write, and he
liked learning much better than Richard, who would not have gone on with
Father Lucas's lessons at all, if Abbot Martin of Jumieges had not put
him in mind that it had been his father's especial desire.

What Richard most disliked was, however, the being obliged to sit in
council.  The Count of Harcourt did in truth govern the dukedom, but
nothing could be done without the Duke's consent, and once a week at
least, there was held in the great hall of Rollo's tower, what was called
a _Parlement_, or
where Count Bernard, the Archbishop, the
Baron de Centeville, the Abbot of Jumieges, and such other Bishops,
Nobles, or Abbots, as might chance to be at Rouen, consulted on the
affairs of Normandy; and there the little Duke always was forced to be
present, sitting up in his chair of state, and hearing rather than
listening to, questions about the repairing and guarding of Castles, the
asking of loans from the vassals, the appeals from the Barons of the
Exchequer, who were then Nobles sent through the duchy to administer
justice, and the discussions about the proceedings of his neighbours,
King Louis of France, Count Foulques of Anjou, and Count Herluin of
Montreuil, and how far the friendship of Hugh of Paris, and Alan of
Brittany might be trusted.

Very tired of all this did Richard grow, especially when he found that
the Normans had made up their minds not to attempt a war against the
wicked Count of Flanders.  He sighed most wearily, yawned again and
again, and moved restlessly about in his chair; but whenever Count
Bernard saw him doing so, he received so severe a look and sign that he
grew perfectly to dread the eye of the fierce old Dane.  Bernard never
spoke to him to praise him, or to enter into any of his pursuits; he only
treated him with the grave distant respect due to him as a Prince, or
else now and then spoke a few stern words to him of reproof for this
restlessness, or for some other childish folly.

Used as Richard was to be petted and made much of by the whole house of
Centeville, he resented this considerably in secret, disliked and feared
the old Count, and more than once told Alberic de Montemar, that as soon
as he was fourteen, when he would be declared of age, he should send
Count Bernard to take care of his own Castle of Harcourt, instead of
letting him sit gloomy and grim in the Castle hall in the evening,
spoiling all their sport.

Winter had set in, and Osmond used daily to take the little Duke and
Alberic to the nearest sheet of ice, for the Normans still prided
themselves on excelling in skating, though they had long since left the
frost-bound streams and lakes of Norway.

One day, as they were returning from the ice, they were surprised, even
before they entered the Castle court, by hearing the trampling of horses'
feet, and a sound of voices
said Osmond
said Richard, piteously
proceeded Osmond
Richard thought this no mischance at all, and just then, Alberic, who had
run on a little before, came back exclaiming
said Osmond, stopping short
Osmond rubbed his forehead and stood considering, while the two boys
looked at him anxiously.  In a few seconds, before he had come to any
conclusion, there came forth from the gate a Norman Squire, accompanied
by two strangers
said he to Richard, in French
exclaimed Osmond
proceeded the Norman, in his own tongue
said Richard, anxiously
said Osmond
Richard repeated over to himself the form of homage that he might be
perfect in it, and walked on into the court; Alberic, Osmond, and the
rest falling back as he entered.  The court was crowded with horses and
men, and it was only by calling out loudly
that
Osmond could get space enough made for them to pass.  In a few moments
Richard had mounted the steps and stood in the great hall.

In the chair of state, at the upper end of the room, sat a small spare
man, of about eight or nine-and-twenty, pale, and of a light complexion,
with a rich dress of blue and gold.  Sir Eric and several other persons
stood respectfully round him, and he was conversing with the Archbishop,
who, as well as Sir Eric, cast several anxious glances at the little Duke
as he advanced up the hall.  He came up to the King, put his knee to the
ground, and was just beginning
when he
found himself suddenly lifted from the ground in the King's arms, and
kissed on both cheeks.  Then setting him on his knee, the King exclaimed
Richard was rather overwhelmed, but he thought the King very kind,
especially when Louis began to admire his height and free-spirited
bearing, and to lament that his own sons, Lothaire and Carloman, were so
much smaller and more backward.  He caressed Richard again and again,
praised every word he said -- Fru Astrida was nothing to him; and Richard
began to say to himself how strange and unkind it was of Bernard de
Harcourt to like to find fault with him, when, on the contrary, he
deserved all this praise from the King himself.

              &lsqb;Louis of France and the Little Duke
Duke Richard of Normandy slept in the room which had been his father's;
Alberic de Montemar, as his page, slept at his feet, and Osmond de
Centeville had a bed on the floor, across the door, where he lay with his
sword close at hand, as his young Lord's guard and protector.

All had been asleep for some little time, when Osmond was startled by a
slight movement of the door, which could not be pushed open without
awakening him.  In an instant he had grasped his sword, while he pressed
his shoulder to the door to keep it closed; but it was his father's voice
that answered him with a few whispered words in the Norse tongue
He made way instantly, and old Sir Eric entered, treading
cautiously with bare feet, and sat down on the bed motioning him to do
the same, so that they might be able to speak lower
he
said
murmured Osmond
said Osmond
said Sir Eric, musingly
a bare little foot was heard on the floor, and Alberic de
Montemar stood before him
said Osmond, eagerly
said Sir Eric
said Alberic
said Sir Eric
whispered Alberic, as he began hastily to dress himself
Sir Eric smiled, saying
added Osmond
replied Sir Eric
said Alberic, coming forward.

The Baron de Centeville repeated his instructions, and then undertook to
guard the door, while his son saw Alberic set off on his expedition.
Osmond went with him softly down the stairs, then avoiding the hall,
which was filled with French, they crept silently to a narrow window,
guarded by iron bars, placed at such short intervals apart that only so
small and slim a form as Alberic's could have squeezed out between them.
The distance to the ground was not much more than twice his own height,
and the wall was so covered with ivy, that it was not a very dangerous
feat for an active boy, so that Alberic was soon safe on the ground, then
looking up to wave his cap, he ran on along the side of the moat, and was
soon lost to Osmond's sight in the darkness.

Osmond returned to the Duke's chamber, and relieved his father's guard,
while Richard slept soundly on, little guessing at the plots of his
enemies, or at the schemes of his faithful subjects for his protection.

Osmond thought this all the better, for he had small trust in Richard's
patience and self-command, and thought there was much more chance of
getting him unnoticed out of the Castle, if he did not know how much
depended on it, and how dangerous his situation was.

When Richard awoke, he was much surprised at missing Alberic, but Osmond
said he was gone into the town to Thibault the armourer, and this was a
message on which he was so likely to be employed that Richard's suspicion
was not excited.  All the time he was dressing he talked about the King,
and everything he meant to show him that day; then, when he was ready,
the first thing was as usual to go to attend morning mass
said Osmond, as Richard was about to
enter the great hall
Osmond turned, as he spoke, along the passage, walking fast, and not
sorry that Richard was lingering a little, as it was safer for him to be
first.  The postern was, as he expected, guarded by two tall steel-cased
figures, who immediately held their lances across the door-way, saying
said
Osmond
repeated one of the men-at-arms.  Osmond was
beginning to say that he was the son of the Seneschal of the Castle, when
Richard came hastily up
he
exclaimed in the imperious manner he had begun to take up since his
accession
The men-at-arms looked at each other, and guarded the door more closely.
Osmond saw it was hopeless, and only wanted to draw his young charge back
without being recognised, but Richard exclaimed loudly
was
Osmond's answer
said Richard, impatient at opposition, to which he was
little accustomed
The sentinels bowed, but all they said was
exclaimed Richard, passionately pressing against the crossed
staves of the weapons, to force his way between them, but he was caught
and held fast in the powerful gauntlet of one of the men-at-arms
cried he, struggling with all his might
Even as he spoke Osmond had disengaged him from the grasp of the
Frenchman, and putting his hand on his arm, said
cried the boy
Away he rushed to the stairs, Osmond hurrying after him, lest he should
throw himself into some fresh danger, or by his loud calls attract the
French, who might then easily make him prisoner.  However, on the very
first step of the stairs stood Sir Eric, who was too anxious for the
success of the attempt to escape, to be very far off.  Richard, too angry
to heed where he was going, dashed up against him without seeing him, and
as the old Baron took hold of him, began
said Sir Eric
However imperious with others, Richard from force of habit always obeyed
Sir Eric, and now allowed himself to be dragged hastily and silently by
him, Osmond following closely, up the stairs, up a second and a third
winding flight, still narrower, and with broken steps, to a small round,
thick-walled turret chamber, with an extremely small door, and loop-holes
of windows high up in the tower.  Here, to his great surprise, he found
Dame Astrida, kneeling and telling her beads, two or three of her
maidens, and about four of the Norman Squires and men-at-arms
said the Baron
said Sir Eric
said Richard
said Sir Eric
said Dame Astrida, holding out her arms
Richard came and leant against her
said he, sadly, after a silence; then looking at her in
wonder
said Fru Astrida, smiling
said Sir Eric
said Osmond
said Sir Eric
whispered Richard
Osmond and two of the Normans were, as he spoke, taking their stand on
the narrow spiral stair, where there was just room for one man on the
step.  Osmond was the lowest, the other two above him, and it would have
been very hard for an enemy to force his way past them.

Osmond could plainly hear the sounds of the steps and voices of the
French as they consulted together, and sought for the Duke.  A man at
length was heard clanking up these very stairs, till winding round, he
suddenly found himself close upon young de Centeville
he cried, starting back in amazement
answered Osmond, shortly
and his drawn sword expressed the same intention.

The Frenchman drew back, and presently a whispering below was heard, and
soon after a voice came up the stairs, saying
replied Osmond, and the head of another Frank
appeared
was the address
replied Osmond
At this moment a cry from without arose, so loud as almost to drown the
voices of the speakers on the turret stair, a cry welcome to the ears of
Osmond, repeated by a multitude of voices
It was well known as a Norman shout.  So just and so ready to redress all
grievances had the old Duke Rollo been, that his very name was an appeal
against injustice, and whenever wrong was done, the Norman outcry against
the injury was always
or as it had become shortened
And now Osmond knew that those whose affection had been won by the
uprightness of Rollo, were gathering to protect his helpless grandchild.

The cry was likewise heard by the little garrison in the turret chamber,
bringing hope and joy.  Richard thought himself already rescued, and
springing from Fru Astrida, danced about in ecstasy, only longing to see
the faithful Normans, whose voices he heard ringing out again and again,
in calls for their little Duke, and outcries against the Franks.  The
windows were, however, so high, that nothing could be seen from them but
the sky; and, like Richard, the old Baron de Centeville was almost beside
himself with anxiety to know what force was gathered together, and what
measures were being taken.  He opened the door, called to his son, and
asked if he could tell what was passing, but Osmond knew as little -- he
could see nothing but the black, cobwebbed, dusty steps winding above his
head, while the clamours outside, waxing fiercer and louder, drowned all
the sounds which might otherwise have come up to him from the French
within the Castle.  At last, however, Osmond called out to his father, in
Norse
replied Sir Eric
called back Osmond, after a moment
returned the Baron
Osmond gave the desired reply, which was carried to the King.  Meantime
the uproar outside grew louder than ever, and there were new sounds, a
horn was winded, and there was a shout of
the Norman
war-cry, joined with
cried Sir Eric, with a long breath, as if relieved of
half his anxieties
said Osmond, opening the door, and admitting a
stout, burly man, who seemed sorely out of breath with the ascent of the
steep, broken stair, and very little pleased to find himself in such a
situation.  The Baron de Centeville augured well from the speed with
which he had been sent, thinking it proved great perplexity and distress
on the part of Louis.  Without waiting to hear his hostage speak, he
pointed to a chest on which he had been sitting, and bade two of his
men-at-arms stand on each side of the Count, saying at the same time to
Fru Astrida
Richard moved forward.  Sir Eric held his hand.  Osmond kept close behind
him, and with as many of the men-at-arms as could be spared from guarding
Fru Astrida and her hostage, he descended the stairs, not by any means
sorry to go, for he was weary of being besieged in that turret chamber,
whence he could see nothing, and with those friendly cries in his ears,
he could not be afraid.

He was conducted to the large council-room which was above the hall.
There, the King was walking up and down anxiously, looking paler than his
wont, and no wonder, for the uproar sounded tremendous there -- and now and
then a stone dashed against the sides of the deep window.

Nearly at the same moment as Richard entered by one door, Count Bernard
de Harcourt came in from the other, and there was a slight lull in the
tumult
exclaimed the King
replied Bernard
said Louis, trembling, for the Normans were extremely dreaded
said Bernard
said Louis
At a sign from the Count de Harcourt, Sir Eric led Richard forward, and
put his hand into the King's.  Louis took him to the window, lifted him
upon the sill, and stood there with his arm round him, upon which the
shout
arose again.  Meantime, the
two Centevilles looked in wonder at the old Harcourt, who shook his head
and muttered in his own tongue
said Osmond
began the King, as the cries lulled a
little. {11
So saying, Louis tenderly embraced the little boy, and the Rouennais
below broke out into another cry, in which
was
joined with
said Eric, meanwhile, to Harcourt
Eric groaned and shook his head; but the Count de Harcourt's judgment was
of such weight with him, that he never dreamt of disputing it
said the King
There was some delay, during which the Norman Nobles had time for further
counsel together, and Richard looked wistfully at them, wondering what
was to happen to him, and wishing he could venture to ask for Alberic.

Several of the Clergy of the Cathedral presently appeared in procession,
bringing with them the book of the Gospels on which Richard had taken his
installation oath, with others of the sacred treasures of the Church,
preserved in gold cases.  The Priests were followed by a few of the
Norman Knights and Nobles, some of the burgesses of Rouen, and, to
Richard's great joy, by Alberic de Montemar himself.  The two boys stood
looking eagerly at each other, while preparation was made for the
ceremony of the King's oath.

The stone table in the middle of the room was cleared, and arranged so as
in some degree to resemble the Altar in the Cathedral; then the Count de
Harcourt, standing before it, and holding the King's hand, demanded of
him whether he would undertake to be the friend, protector, and good Lord
of Richard, Duke of Normandy, guarding him from all his enemies, and ever
seeking his welfare.  Louis, with his hand on the Gospels
returned Bernard the Dane, solemnly
Then followed the ceremony, which had been interrupted the night before,
of the homage and oath of allegiance which Richard owed to the King, and,
on the other hand, the King's formal reception of him as a vassal,
holding, under him, the two dukedoms of Normandy and Brittany
said the King, raising him in his arms and kissing him
Richard did not much like all this embracing; but he was sure the King
really meant him no ill, and he wondered at all the distrust the
Centevilles had shown
said the King
replied the old Dane,
cautiously
returned Louis, uneasily
said Bernard
said Louis
answered
Harcourt, bluntly
said Louis
said the Count, in his native tongue, when
Richard had crossed from the King's side, and stood beside him
said Richard
said the Dane, stooping down and speaking low
and he laid his hand on the old
Baron's shoulder
said Sir Eric
said the Count, in an undertone
said old Eric, sadly
said Bernard
muttered old Centeville
Bernard paid no further attention to him, but, coming forward, required
another oath from the King, that Richard should be as safe and free at
his court as at Rouen, and that on no pretence whatsoever should he be
taken from under the immediate care of his Esquire, Osmond Fitz Eric,
heir of Centeville.

After this, the King was impatient to depart, and all was preparation.
Bernard called Osmond aside to give full instructions on his conduct, and
the means of communicating with Normandy, and Richard was taking leave of
Fru Astrida, who had now descended from her turret, bringing her hostage
with her.  She wept much over her little Duke, praying that he might
safely be restored to Normandy, even though she might not live to see it;
she exhorted him not to forget the good and holy learning in which he had
been brought up, to rule his temper, and, above all, to say his prayers
constantly, never leaving out one, as the beads of his rosary reminded
him of their order.  As to her own grandson, anxiety for him seemed
almost lost in her fears for Richard, and the chief things she said to
him, when he came to take leave of her, were directions as to the care he
was to take of the child, telling him the honour he now received was one
which would make his name forever esteemed if he did but fulfil his
trust, the most precious that Norman had ever yet received
said Osmond
said Richard
answered Alberic, sturdily
said a Frenchman, coming
forward
Away from the tall narrow gateway of Rollo's Tower, with the cluster of
friendly, sorrowful faces looking forth from it, away from the booth-like
shops of Rouen, and the stout burghers shouting with all the power of
their lungs
away from the broad Seine -- away from home and friends,
rode the young Duke of Normandy, by the side of the palfrey of the King
of France.

The King took much notice of him, kept him by his side, talked to him,
admired the beautiful cattle grazing in security in the green pastures,
and, as he looked at the rich dark brown earth of the fields, the Castles
towering above the woods, the Convents looking like great farms, the many
villages round the rude Churches, and the numerous population who came
out to gaze at the party, and repeat the cry of
he told Richard, again and again, that his
was the most goodly duchy in France and Germany to boot.

When they crossed the Epte, the King would have Richard in the same boat
with him, and sitting close to Louis, and talking eagerly about falcons
and hounds, the little Duke passed the boundary of his own dukedom.

The country beyond was not like Normandy.  First they came to a great
forest, which seemed to have no path through it.  The King ordered that
one of the men, who had rowed them across, should be made to serve as
guide, and two of the men-at-arms took him between them, and forced him
to lead the way, while others, with their swords and battle-axes, cut
down and cleared away the tangled branches and briars that nearly choked
the path.  All the time, every one was sharply on the look-out for
robbers, and the weapons were all held ready for use at a moment's
notice.  On getting beyond the forest a Castle rose before them, and,
though it was not yet late in the day, they resolved to rest there, as a
marsh lay not far before them, which it would not have been safe to
traverse in the evening twilight.

The Baron of the Castle received them with great respect to the King, but
without paying much attention to the Duke of Normandy, and Richard did
not find the second place left for him at the board.  He coloured
violently, and looked first at the King, and then at Osmond, but Osmond
held up his finger in warning; he remembered how he had lost his temper
before, and what had come of it, and resolved to try to bear it better;
and just then the Baron's daughter, a gentle-looking maiden of fifteen or
sixteen, came and spoke to him, and entertained him so well, that he did
not think much more of his offended dignity.-- When they set off on their
journey again, the Baron and several of his followers came with them to
show the only safe way across the morass, and a very slippery,
treacherous, quaking road it was, where the horses' feet left pools of
water wherever they trod.  The King and the Baron rode together, and the
other French Nobles closed round them; Richard was left quite in the
background, and though the French men-at-arms took care not to lose sight
of him, no one offered him any assistance, excepting Osmond, who, giving
his own horse to Sybald, one of the two Norman grooms who accompanied
him, led Richard's horse by the bridle along the whole distance of the
marshy path, a business that could scarcely have been pleasant, as Osmond
wore his heavy hauberk, and his pointed, iron-guarded boots sunk deep at
every step into the bog.  He spoke little, but seemed to be taking good
heed of every stump of willow or stepping-stone that might serve as a
note of remembrance of the path.

At the other end of the morass began a long tract of dreary-looking,
heathy waste, without a sign of life.  The Baron took leave of the King,
only sending three men-at-arms, to show him the way to a monastery, which
was to be the next halting-place.  He sent three, because it was not safe
for one, even fully armed, to ride alone, for fear of the attacks of the
followers of a certain marauding Baron, who was at deadly feud with him,
and made all that border a most perilous region.  Richard might well
observe that he did not like the Vexin half as well as Normandy, and that
the people ought to learn Fru Astrida's story of the golden bracelets,
which, in his grandfather's time, had hung untouched for a year, in a
tree in a forest.

It was pretty much the same through the whole journey, waste lands,
marshes, and forests alternated.  The Castles stood on high mounds
frowning on the country round, and villages were clustered round them,
where the people either fled away, driving off their cattle with them at
the first sight of an armed band, or else, if they remained, proved to be
thin, wretched-looking creatures, with wasted limbs, aguish faces, and
often iron collars round their necks.  Wherever there was anything of
more prosperous appearance, such as a few cornfields, vineyards on the
slopes of the hills, fat cattle, and peasantry looking healthy and
secure, there was sure to be seen a range of long low stone buildings,
surmounted with crosses, with a short square Church tower rising in the
midst, and interspersed with gnarled hoary old apple-trees, or with
gardens of pot-herbs spreading before them to the meadows.  If, instead
of two or three men-at-arms from a Castle, or of some trembling serf
pressed into the service, and beaten, threatened, and watched to prevent
treachery, the King asked for a guide at a Convent, some lay brother
would take his staff; or else mount an ass, and proceed in perfect
confidence and security as to his return homewards, sure that his poverty
and his sacred character would alike protect him from any outrage from
the most lawless marauder of the neighbourhood.

Thus they travelled until they reached the royal Castle of Laon, where
the Fleur-de-Lys standard on the battlements announced the presence of
Gerberge, Queen of France, and her two sons.  The King rode first into
the court with his Nobles, and before Richard could follow him through
the narrow arched gateway, he had dismounted, entered the Castle, and was
out of sight.  Osmond held the Duke's stirrup, and followed him up the
steps which led to the Castle Hall.  It was full of people, but no one
made way, and Richard, holding his Squire's hand, looked up in his face,
inquiring and bewildered
said Osmond, seeing a broad portly old man, with grey
hair and a golden chain
Richard had no longer any cause to complain of neglect, for the Seneschal
instantly made him a very low bow, and calling
ushered him up to the dais
or raised part of the floor, where the King and Queen stood together
talking.  The Queen looked round, as Richard was announced, and he saw
her face, which was sallow, and with a sharp sour expression that did not
please him, and he backed and looked reluctant, while Osmond, with a
warning hand pressed on his shoulder, was trying to remind him that he
ought to go forward, kneel on one knee, and kiss her hand
said the King
said the Queen
Louis answered something in a low voice, and, in the meantime, Osmond
tried in a whisper to induce his young Lord to go forward and perform his
obeisance
said Richard
Luckily he spoke his own language; but his look and air expressed a good
deal of what he said, and Gerberge looked all the more unattractive
said the King
he added, sternly.

Richard bowed, partly because Osmond forced down his shoulder; but he
thought of old Rollo and Charles the Simple, and his proud heart resolved
that he would never kiss the hand of that sour-looking Queen.  It was a
determination made in pride and defiance, and he suffered for it
afterwards; but no more passed now, for the Queen only saw in his
behaviour that of an unmannerly young Northman: and though she disliked
and despised him, she did not care enough about his courtesy to insist on
its being paid.  She sat down, and so did the King, and they went on
talking; the King probably telling her his adventures at Rouen, while
Richard stood on the step of the dais, swelling with sullen pride.

Nearly a quarter of an hour had passed in this manner when the servants
came to set the table for supper, and Richard, in spite of his indignant
looks, was forced to stand aside.  He wondered that all this time he had
not seen the two Princes, thinking how strange he should have thought it,
to let his own dear father be in the house so long without coming to
welcome him.  At last, just as the supper had been served up, a side door
opened, and the Seneschal called
and in walked two boys, one about
the same age as Richard, the other rather less than a year younger.  They
were both thin, pale, sharp-featured children, and Richard drew himself
up to his full height, with great satisfaction at being so much taller
than Lothaire.

They came up ceremoniously to their father and kissed his hand, while he
kissed their foreheads, and then said to them
said Carloman, turning to stare at Richard
with a look of curiosity, while Richard in his turn felt considerably
affronted that a boy so much less than himself should call him little
said the Queen
Carloman stepped forward, shyly holding out his hand to the stranger, but
his brother pushed him rudely aside
Richard was too much amazed at being spoken to in this imperious way to
make any answer.  He was completely taken by surprise, and only opened
his great blue eyes to their utmost extent
continued Lothaire
said Richard, at once breaking silence
in a loud voice
said Osmond
again interfered the King, in an angry tone
whispered Osmond
returned
Richard, gazing with eyes full of defiance at Lothaire, who, returning an
angry look, had nevertheless shrunk back to his mother.  She meanwhile
was saying
said Louis
he added in a
lower tone
At supper, Richard sat next little Carloman, who peeped at him every now
and then from under his eyelashes, as if he was afraid of him; and
presently, when there was a good deal of talking going on, so that his
voice could not be heard, half whispered, in a very grave tone
answered Richard, with equal gravity
There was another silence, and then Carloman, with the same solemnity,
asked
Another silence; then, as Osmond waited on Richard, Carloman returned to
the charge
and Carloman sunk his voice
said Richard
again asked Richard
said Richard, in a superior manner.
Carloman asked how it was done; and Richard gave an animated description
of the snowballing, a fortnight ago, at Rouen, when Osmond and some of
the other young men built a snow fortress, and defended it against
Richard, Alberic, and the other Squires.  Carloman listened with delight,
and declared that next time it snowed, they would have a snow castle; and
thus, by the time supper was over, the two little boys were very good
friends.

Bedtime came not long after supper.  Richard's was a smaller room than he
had been used to at Rouen; but it amazed him exceedingly when he first
went into it: he stood gazing in wonder, because, as he said
said Osmond
Luxurious as the young Norman thought the King, the glazing of Laon was
not permanent.  It consisted of casements, which could be put up or
removed at pleasure; for, as the court possessed only one set of glass
windows, they were taken down, and carried from place to place, as often
as Louis removed from Rheims to Soissons, Laon, or any other of his royal
castles; so that Osmond did not find much difficulty in displacing them,
and letting in the sharp, cold, wintry breeze.  The next thing he did was
to give his young Lord a lecture on his want of courtesy, telling him
that
replied Richard
exclaimed Richard
said Osmond
continued Richard, unheeding
said Osmond
So Richard told the beads of his rosary -- black polished wood, with amber
at certain spaces -- he repeated a prayer with every bead, and Osmond did
the same; then the little Duke put himself into a narrow crib of richly
carved walnut; while Osmond, having stuck his dagger so as to form an
additional bolt to secure the door, and examined the hangings that no
secret entrance might be concealed behind them, gathered a heap of rushes
together, and lay down on them, wrapped in his mantle, across the
doorway.  The Duke was soon asleep; but the Squire lay long awake, musing
on the possible dangers that surrounded his charge, and on the best way
of guarding against them
Osmond de Centeville was soon convinced that no immediate peril
threatened his young Duke at the Court of Laon.  Louis seemed to intend
to fulfil his oaths to the Normans by allowing the child to be the
companion of his own sons, and to be treated in every respect as became
his rank.  Richard had his proper place at table, and all due attendance;
he learnt, rode, and played with the Princes, and there was nothing to
complain of, excepting the coldness and inattention with which the King
and Queen treated him, by no means fulfilling the promise of being as
parents to their orphan ward.  Gerberge, who had from the first dreaded
his superior strength and his roughness with her puny boys, and who had
been by no means won by his manners at their first meeting, was
especially distant and severe with him, hardly ever speaking to him
except with some rebuke, which, it must be confessed, Richard often
deserved.

As to the boys, his constant companions, Richard was on very friendly
terms with Carlo-man, a gentle, timid, weakly child.  Richard looked down
upon him; but he was kind, as a generous-tempered boy could not fail to
be, to one younger and weaker than himself.  He was so much kinder than
Lothaire, that Carloman was fast growing very fond of him, and looked up
to his strength and courage as something noble and marvellous.

It was very different with Lothaire, the person from whom, above all
others, Richard would have most expected to meet with affection, as his
father's god-son, a relationship which in those times was thought almost
as near as kindred by blood.  Lothaire had been brought up by an
indulgent mother, and by courtiers who never ceased flattering him, as
the heir to the crown, and he had learnt to think that to give way to his
naturally imperious and violent disposition was the way to prove his
power and assert his rank.  He had always had his own way, and nothing
had ever been done to check his faults; somewhat weakly health had made
him fretful and timid; and a latent consciousness of this fearfulness
made him all the more cruel, sometimes because he was frightened,
sometimes because he fancied it manly.

He treated his little brother in a way which in these times boys would
call bullying; and, as no one ever dared to oppose the King's eldest son,
it was pretty much the same with every one else, except now and then some
dumb creature, and then all Lothaire's cruelty was shown.  When his horse
kicked, and ended by throwing him, he stood by, and caused it to be
beaten till the poor creature's back streamed with blood; when his dog
bit his hand in trying to seize the meat with which he was teazing it, he
insisted on having it killed, and it was worse still when a falcon pecked
one of his fingers.  It really hurt him a good deal, and, in a furious
rage, he caused two nails to be heated red hot in the fire, intending to
have them thrust into the poor bird's eyes
exclaimed Richard, expecting to be obeyed as
he was at home; but Lothaire only laughed scornfully, saying
repeated Richard
cried
Lothaire, red with passion
said Richard
to the servant who
was bringing the red-hot irons in a pair of tongs
exclaimed Lothaire
said Osmond, interrupting Richard's order, before
it was issued
exclaimed Richard, breaking from him, and rushing on the man who
carried the hot irons.  The French servants were not very willing to
exert their strength against the Duke of Normandy, and Richard's onset,
taking the man by surprise, made him drop the tongs.  Lothaire, both
afraid and enraged, caught them up as a weapon of defence, and, hardly
knowing what he did, struck full at Richard's face with the hot iron.
Happily it missed his eye, and the heat had a little abated; but, as it
touched his cheek, it burnt him sufficiently to cause considerable pain.
With a cry of passion, he flew at Lothaire, shook him with all his might,
and ended by throwing him at his length on the pavement.  But this was
the last of Richard's exploits, for he was at the same moment captured by
his Squire, and borne off, struggling and kicking as if Osmond had been
his greatest foe; but the young Norman's arms were like iron round him;
and he gave over his resistance sooner, because at that moment a whirring
flapping sound was heard, and the poor hawk rose high, higher, over their
heads in ever lessening circles, far away from her enemies.  The servant
who held her, had relaxed his grasp in the consternation caused by
Lothaire's fall, and she was mounting up and up, spying, it might be, her
way to her native rocks in Iceland, with the yellow eyes which Richard
had saved
cried Richard, joyfully, ceasing his struggles
said Richard, though
he could hardly keep his lips in order, and was obliged to wink very hard
with his eyes to keep the tears out, now that he had leisure to feel the
smarting; but it would have been far beneath a Northman to complain, and
he stood bearing it gallantly, and pinching his fingers tightly together,
while Osmond knelt down to examine the hurt
said he,
talking to himself
said Richard
replied
Richard, in a somewhat quivering voice
said Richard, and to the fountain in the court they
went; but Osmond had only just begun to splash the cheek with the
half-frozen water, with a sort of rough kindness, afraid at once of
teaching the Duke to be effeminate, and of not being as tender to him as
Dame Astrida would have wished, when a messenger came in haste from the
King, commanding the presence of the Duke of Normandy and his Squire.

Lothaire was standing between his father and mother on their throne-like
seat, leaning against the Queen, who had her arm round him; his face was
red and glazed with tears, and he still shook with subsiding sobs.  It
was evident he was just recovering from a passionate crying fit
began the King, as Richard entered
fearlessly
answered Richard
said Richard,
with a Northman's stern contempt for pain, disdaining to mention his own
burnt cheek, which indeed the King might have seen plainly enough
repeated the King
False accusation
cried Richard
Osmond here hastily interfered, and desired permission to tell the whole
story.  The hawk was a valuable bird, and Louis's face darkened when he
heard what Lothaire had purposed, for the Prince had, in telling his own
story, made it appear that Richard had been the aggressor by insisting on
letting the falcon fly.  Osmond finished by pointing to the mark on
Richard's cheek, so evidently a burn, as to be proof that hot iron had
played a part in the matter.  The King looked at one of his own Squires
and asked his account, and he with some hesitation could not but reply
that it was as the young Sieur de Centeville had said.  Thereupon Louis
angrily reproved his own people for having assisted the Prince in trying
to injure the hawk, called for the chief falconer, rated him for not
better attending to his birds, and went forth with him to see if the hawk
could yet be recaptured, leaving the two boys neither punished nor
pardoned
said Gerberge, coldly, to Richard
She led her son away to her own apartments, and the French
Squires began to grumble to each other complaints of the impossibility of
pleasing their Lords, since, if they contradicted Prince Lothaire, he was
so spiteful that he was sure to set the Queen against them, and that was
far worse in the end than the King's displeasure.  Osmond, in the
meantime, took Richard to re-commence bathing his face, and presently
Carloman ran out to pity him, wonder at him for not crying, and say he
was glad the poor hawk had escaped.

The cheek continued inflamed and painful for some time, and there was a
deep scar long after the pain had ceased, but Richard thought little of
it after the first, and would have scorned to bear ill-will to Lothaire
for the injury.

Lothaire left off taunting Richard with his Norman accent, and calling
him a young Sea-king.  He had felt his strength, and was afraid of him;
but he did not like him the better -- he never played with him
willingly -- scowled, and looked dark and jealous, if his father, or if any
of the great nobles took the least notice of the little Duke, and
whenever he was out of hearing, talked against him with all his natural
spitefulness.

Richard liked Lothaire quite as little, contemning almost equally his
cowardly ways and his imperious disposition.  Since he had been Duke,
Richard had been somewhat inclined to grow imperious himself, though
always kept under restraint by Fru Astrida's good training, and Count
Bernard's authority, and his whole generous nature would have revolted
against treating Alberic, or indeed his meanest vassal, as Lothaire used
the unfortunate children who were his playfellows.  Perhaps this made him
look on with great horror at the tyranny which Lothaire exercised; at any
rate he learnt to abhor it more, and to make many resolutions against
ordering people about uncivilly when once he should be in Normandy again.
He often interfered to protect the poor boys, and generally with success,
for the Prince was afraid of provoking such another shake as Richard had
once given him, and though he generally repaid himself on his victim in
the end, he yielded for the time.

Carloman, whom Richard often saved from his brother's unkindness, clung
closer and closer to him, went with him everywhere, tried to do all he
did, grew very fond of Osmond, and liked nothing better than to sit by
Richard in some wide window-seat, in the evening, after supper, and
listen to Richard's version of some of Fru Astrida's favourite tales, or
hear the never-ending history of sports at Centeville, or at Rollo's
Tower, or settle what great things they would both do when they were
grown up, and Richard was ruling Normandy -- perhaps go to the Holy Land
together, and slaughter an unheard-of host of giants and dragons on the
way.  In the meantime, however, poor Carloman gave small promise of being
able to perform great exploits, for he was very small for his age and
often ailing; soon tired, and never able to bear much rough play.
Richard, who had never had any reason to learn to forbear, did not at
first understand this, and made Carloman cry several times with his
roughness and violence, but this always vexed him so much that he grew
careful to avoid such things for the future, and gradually learnt to
treat his poor little weakly friend with a gentleness and patience at
which Osmond used to marvel, and which he would hardly have been taught
in his prosperity at home.

Between Carloman and Osmond he was thus tolerably happy at Laon, but he
missed his own dear friends, and the loving greetings of his vassals, and
longed earnestly to be at Rouen, asking Osmond almost every night when
they should go back, to which Osmond could only answer that he must pray
that Heaven would be pleased to bring them home safely.

Osmond, in the meantime, kept a vigilant watch for anything that might
seem to threaten danger to his Lord; but at present there was no token of
any evil being intended; the only point in which Louis did not seem to be
fulfilling his promises to the Normans was, that no preparations were
made for attacking the Count of Flanders.

At Easter the court was visited by Hugh the White, the great Count of
Paris, the most powerful man in France, and who was only prevented by his
own loyalty and forbearance, from taking the crown from the feeble and
degenerate race of Charlemagne.  He had been a firm friend of William
Longsword, and Osmond remarked how, on his arrival, the King took care to
bring Richard forward, talk of him affectionately, and caress him almost
as much as he had done at Rouen.  The Count himself was really kind and
affectionate to the little Duke; he kept him by his side, and seemed to
like to stroke down his long flaxen hair, looking in his face with a
grave mournful expression, as if seeking for a likeness to his father.
He soon asked about the scar which the burn had left, and the King was
obliged to answer hastily, it was an accident, a disaster that had
chanced in a boyish quarrel.  Louis, in fact, was uneasy, and appeared to
be watching the Count of Paris the whole time of his visit, so as to
prevent him from having any conversation in private with the other great
vassals assembled at the court.  Hugh did not seem to perceive this, and
acted as if he was entirely at his ease, but at the same time he watched
his opportunity.  One evening, after supper, he came up to the window
where Richard and Carloman were, as usual, deep in story telling; he sat
down on the stone seat, and taking Richard on his knee, he asked if he
had any greetings for the Count de Harcourt.

How Richard's face lighted up
he cried
whispered Richard, edging himself close to the Count, and
trying to reach his ear
said Richard
The Count asked how it happened, and Richard told the story, for he felt
as if he could tell the kind Count anything -- it was almost like that last
evening that he had sat on his father's knee.  Hugh ended by putting his
arm round him, and saying
Richard undertook that Osmond should do so, and the Count, setting him
down again, returned to the dais.  Osmond, before going to the Count that
evening, ordered Sybald to come and guard the Duke's door.  It was a long
conference, for Hugh had come to Laon chiefly for the purpose of seeing
how it went with his friend's son, and was anxious to know what Osmond
thought of the matter.  They agreed that at present there did not seem to
be any evil intended, and that it rather appeared as if Louis wished only
to keep him as a hostage for the tranquillity of the borders of Normandy;
but Hugh advised that Osmond should maintain a careful watch, and send
intelligence to him on the first token of mischief.

The next morning the Count of Paris quitted Laon, and everything went on
in the usual course till the feast of Whitsuntide, when there was always
a great display of splendour at the French court.  The crown vassals
generally came to pay their duty and go with the King to Church; and
there was a state banquet, at which the King and Queen wore their crowns,
and every one sat in great magnificence according to their rank.

The grand procession to Church was over.  Richard had walked with
Carloman, the Prince richly dressed in blue, embroidered with golden
fleur-de-lys, and Richard in scarlet, with a gold Cross on his breast;
the beautiful service was over, they had returned to the Castle, and
there the Seneschal was marshalling the goodly and noble company to the
banquet, when horses' feet were heard at the gate announcing some fresh
arrival.  The Seneschal went to receive the guests, and presently was
heard ushering in the noble Prince, Arnulf, Count of Flanders.

Richard's face became pale -- he turned from Carloman by whose side he had
been standing, and walked straight out of the hall and up the stairs,
closely followed by Osmond.  In a few minutes there was a knock at the
door of his chamber, and a French Knight stood there saying
answered Osmond
said the Frenchman, hesitating
exclaimed Osmond, indignantly
said the Knight
Richard had hardly time to express his indignation, and his wishes that
he was a man, before another message came through a groom of Lothaire's
train, that the Duke must fast, if he would not consent to feast with the
rest
replied Richard
All the rest of the day, Richard remained in his own chamber, resolved
not to run the risk of meeting with Arnulf.  The Squire remained with
him, in this voluntary imprisonment, and they occupied themselves, as
best they could, with furbishing Osmond's armour, and helping each other
out in repeating some of the Sagas.  They once heard a great uproar in
the court, and both were very anxious to learn its cause, but they did
not know it till late in the afternoon.

Carloman crept up to them
he exclaimed
Richard thanked Carloman with all his heart, and being very hungry was
glad to share the bread with Osmond.  He asked how long the wicked Count
was going to stay, and rejoiced to hear he was going away the next
morning, and the King was going with him
asked Richard
returned Carloman.

Richard, however, begged to hear, and Carloman was obliged to tell that
the two Norman grooms, Sybald and Henry, had quarrelled with the Flemings
of Arnulf's train; there had been a fray, which had ended in the death of
three Flemings, a Frank, and of Sybald himself -- And where was Henry?
Alas! there was more ill news -- the King had sentenced Henry to die, and
he had been hanged immediately.

Dark with anger and sorrow grew young Richard's face; he had been fond of
his two Norman attendants, he trusted to their attachment, and he would
have wept for their loss even if it had happened in any other way; but
now, when it had been caused by their enmity to his father's foes, the
Flemings,-- when one had fallen overwhelmed by numbers, and the other been
condemned hastily, cruelly, unjustly, it was too much, and he almost
choked with grief and indignation.  Why had he not been there, to claim
Henry as his own vassal, and if he could not save him, at least bid him
farewell?  Then he would have broken out in angry threats, but he felt
his own helplessness, and was ashamed, and he could only shed tears of
passionate grief, refusing all Carloman's attempts to comfort him.
Osmond was even more concerned; he valued the two Normans extremely for
their courage and faithfulness, and had relied on sending intelligence by
their means to Rouen, in case of need.  It appeared to him as if the
first opportunity had been seized of removing these protectors from the
little Duke, and as if the designs, whatever they might be, which had
been formed against him, were about to take effect.  He had little doubt
that his own turn would be the next; but he was resolved to endure
anything, rather than give the smallest opportunity of removing him, to
bear even insults with patience, and to remember that in his care rested
the sole hope of safety for his charge.

That danger was fast gathering around them became more evident every day,
especially after the King and Arnulf had gone away together.  It was very
hot weather, and Richard began to weary after the broad cool river at
Rouen, where he used to bathe last summer; and one evening he persuaded
his Squire to go down with him to the Oise, which flowed along some
meadow ground about a quarter of a mile from the Castle; but they had
hardly set forth before three or four attendants came running after them,
with express orders from the Queen that they should return immediately.
They obeyed, and found her standing in the Castle hall, looking greatly
incensed
she asked, angrily
began Richard, but Gerberge cut
him short
She turned away, and Lothaire looked at them with his air of gratified
malice
said he, as he followed his mother, afraid to stay to meet the
anger he might have excited by the taunt he could not deny himself the
pleasure of making; but Richard, who, six months ago could not brook a
slight disappointment or opposition, had, in his present life of
restraint, danger, and vexation, learnt to curb the first outbreak of
temper, and to bear patiently instead of breaking out into passion and
threats, and now his only thought was of his beloved Squire
he exclaimed
14
It was a fine summer evening, and Richard and Carloman were playing at
ball on the steps of the Castle-gate, when a voice was heard from
beneath, begging for alms from the noble Princes in the name of the
blessed Virgin, and the two boys saw a pilgrim standing at the gate,
wrapt in a long robe of serge, with a staff in his hand, surmounted by a
Cross, a scrip at his girdle, and a broad shady hat, which he had taken
off, as he stood, making low obeisances, and asking charity
said Carloman
replied the pilgrim,
and at that moment Richard shouted joyfully
exclaimed the pilgrim, and, kneeling on one knee
at the foot of the steps, he kissed the hand which his young Duke held
out to him
cried Richard
began
Walter -- but a very different tone exclaimed from behind the pilgrim
It was Lothaire, returning
with his attendants from the chase, in by no means an amiable mood, for
he had been disappointed of his game
said Carloman
suggested one of the followers
said Richard, darting forwards, and
throwing himself between Walter and the woodsman, who was preparing to
obey Lothaire, just in time to receive on his own bare neck the sharp,
cutting leathern thong, which raised a long red streak along its course.
Lothaire laughed
cried Walter, extremely distressed; but Richard had caught hold of the
whip, and called out
and the words were
repeated at once by Osmond, Carloman, and many of the French, who, though
afraid to disobey the Prince, were unwilling to violate the sanctity of a
pilgrim's person; and the Norman, seeing there was no help for it,
obeyed: the French made way for him and he effected his escape; while
Lothaire, after a great deal of storming and raging, went up to his
mother to triumph in the cleverness with which he had detected a Norman
spy in disguise.

Lothaire was not far wrong; Walter had really come to satisfy himself as
to the safety of the little Duke, and try to gain an interview with
Osmond.  In the latter purpose he failed, though he lingered in the
neighbourhood of Laon for several days; for Osmond never left the Duke
for an instant, and he was, as has been shown, a close prisoner, in all
but the name, within the walls of the Castle.  The pilgrim had, however,
the opportunity of picking up tidings which made him perceive the true
state of things: he learnt the deaths of Sybald and Henry, the alliance
between the King and Arnulf, and the restraint and harshness with which
the Duke was treated; and with this intelligence he went in haste to
Normandy.

Soon after his arrival, a three days' fast was observed throughout the
dukedom, and in every church, from the Cathedral of Bayeux to the
smallest and rudest village shrine, crowds of worshippers were kneeling,
imploring, many of them with tears, that God would look on them in His
mercy, restore to them their Prince, and deliver the child out of the
hands of his enemies.  How earnest and sorrowful were the prayers offered
at Centeville may well be imagined; and at Montemar sur Epte the anxiety
was scarcely less.  Indeed, from the time the evil tidings arrived,
Alberic grew so restless and unhappy, and so anxious to do something,
that at last his mother set out with him on a pilgrimage to the Abbey of
Jumieges, to pray for the rescue of his dear little Duke.

In the meantime, Louis had sent notice to Laon that he should return home
in a week's time; and Richard rejoiced at the prospect, for the King had
always been less unkind to him than the Queen, and he hoped to be
released from his captivity within the Castle.  Just at this time he
became very unwell; it might have been only the effect of the life of
unwonted confinement which he had lately led that was beginning to tell
on his health; but, after being heavy and uncomfortable for a day or two,
without knowing what was the matter with him, he was one night attacked
with high fever.

Osmond was dreadfully alarmed, knowing nothing at all of the treatment of
illness, and, what was worse, fully persuaded that the poor child had
been poisoned, and therefore resolved not to call any assistance; he hung
over him all night, expecting each moment to see him expire -- ready to
tear his hair with despair and fury, and yet obliged to restrain himself
to the utmost quietness and gentleness, to soothe the suffering of the
sick child.

Through that night, Richard either tossed about on his narrow bed, or,
when his restlessness desired the change, sat, leaning his aching head on
Osmond's breast, too oppressed and miserable to speak or think.  When the
day dawned on them, and he was still too ill to leave the room,
messengers were sent for him, and Osmond could no longer conceal the fact
of his sickness, but parleyed at the door, keeping out every one he
could, and refusing all offers of attendance.  He would not even admit
Carloman, though Richard, hearing his voice, begged to see him; and when
a proposal was sent from the Queen, that a skilful old nurse should visit
and prescribe for the patient, he refused with all his might, and when he
had shut the door, walked up and down, muttering
All that day and the next, Richard continued very ill, and Osmond waited
on him very assiduously, never closing his eyes for a moment, but
constantly telling his beads whenever the boy did not require his
attendance.  At last Richard fell asleep, slept long and soundly for some
hours, and waked much better.  Osmond was in a transport of joy
Richard was too weak and
weary to ask what he meant, and for the next few days Osmond watched him
with the utmost care.  As for food, now that Richard could eat again,
Osmond would not hear of his touching what was sent for him from the
royal table, but always went down himself to procure food in the kitchen,
where he said he had a friend among the cooks, who would, he thought,
scarcely poison him intentionally.  When Richard was able to cross the
room, he insisted on his always fastening the door with his dagger, and
never opening to any summons but his own, not even Prince Carloman's.
Richard wondered, but he was obliged to obey; and he knew enough of the
perils around him to perceive the reasonableness of Osmond's caution.

Thus several days had passed, the King had returned, and Richard was so
much recovered, that he had become very anxious to be allowed to go down
stairs again, instead of remaining shut up there; but still Osmond would
not consent, though Richard had done nothing all day but walk round the
room, to show how strong he was
said Osmond
Osmond was absent nearly half an hour, and, when he returned, brought on
his shoulders a huge bundle of straw
exclaimed
Richard
said Osmond, throwing down the straw, and
producing a bag with some bread and meat
cried Richard, springing up and clapping his hands
said Osmond
said Osmond
repeated Richard
Richard could hardly eat for excitement, while Osmond hastily made his
arrangements, girding on his sword, and giving Richard his dagger to put
into his belt.  He placed the remainder of the provisions in his wallet,
threw a thick purple cloth mantle over the Duke, and then desired him to
lie down on the straw which he had brought in
he said
cried Richard, laughing
said Osmond, as he disposed the straw round
the little boy
said Richard's voice from the midst
Richard, from the interior of the bundle heard Osmond set open the door;
then he felt himself raised from the ground; Osmond was carrying him
along down the stairs, the ends of the straw crushing and sweeping
against the wall.  The only way to the outer door was through the hall,
and here was the danger.  Richard heard voices, steps, loud singing and
laughter, as if feasting was going on; then some one said
Osmond made answer
Presently came Carloman's voice
Richard could hardly help calling out to his dear little Carloman; but he
remembered the peril of Osmond's eyes and the Queen's threat, and held
his peace, with some vague notion that some day he would make Carloman
King of France.  In the meantime, half stifled with the straw, he felt
himself carried on, down the steps, across the court; and then he knew,
from the darkness and the changed sound of Osmond's tread, that they were
in the stable.  Osmond laid him carefully down, and whispered
He laid the living heap of straw across the saddle, bound it on, then led
out the horse, gazing round cautiously as he did so; but the whole of the
people of the Castle were feasting, and there was no one to watch the
gates.  Richard heard the hollow sound of the hoofs, as the drawbridge
was crossed, and knew that he was free; but still Osmond held his arm
over him, and would not let him move, for some distance.  Then, just as
Richard felt as if he could endure the stifling of the straw, and his
uncomfortable position, not a moment longer, Osmond stopped the horse,
took him down, laid him on the grass, and released him.  He gazed around;
they were in a little wood; evening twilight was just coming on, and the
birds sang sweetly
cried Richard, leaping up in the
delicious cool evening breeze
said Osmond
Escape from captivity&rsqb;

Osmond helped the Duke to mount, and sprang to the saddle behind him, set
spurs to the horse, and rode on at a quick rate, though not at full
speed, as he wished to spare the horse.  The twilight faded, the stars
came out, and still he rode, his arm round the child, who, as night
advanced, grew weary, and often sunk into a sort of half doze, conscious
all the time of the trot of the horse.  But each step was taking him
further from Queen Gerberge, and nearer to Normandy; and what recked he
of weariness?  On -- on; the stars grew pale again, and the first pink
light of dawn showed in the eastern sky; the sun rose, mounted higher and
higher, and the day grew hotter; the horse went more slowly, stumbled,
and though Osmond halted and loosed the girth, he only mended his pace
for a little while.

Osmond looked grievously perplexed; but they had not gone much further
before a party of merchants came in sight, winding their way with a long
train of loaded mules, and stout men to guard them, across the plains,
like an eastern caravan in the desert.  They gazed in surprise at the
tall young Norman holding the child upon the worn-out war-horse
said Osmond to the first
The merchant, seeing the value of Osmond's gallant black, accepted the
offer; and Osmond removing his saddle, and placing Richard on his new
steed, again mounted, and on they went through the country which Osmond's
eye had marked with the sagacity men acquire by living in wild, unsettled
places.  The great marshes were now far less dangerous than in the
winter, and they safely crossed them.  There had, as yet, been no
pursuit, and Osmond's only fear was for his little charge, who, not
having recovered his full strength since his illness, began to suffer
greatly from fatigue in the heat of that broiling summer day, and leant
against Osmond patiently, but very wearily, without moving or looking up.
He scarcely revived when the sun went down, and a cool breeze sprang up,
which much refreshed Osmond himself; and still more did it refresh the
Squire to see, at length, winding through the green pastures, a blue
river, on the opposite bank of which rose a high rocky mound, bearing a
castle with many a turret and battlement
cried Richard, sitting upright
Still the Epte was wide and deep, and the peril was not yet
ended.  Osmond looked anxiously, and rejoiced to see marks of cattle, as
if it had been forded
he said, and dismounting, he
waded in, leading the horse, and firmly holding Richard in the saddle.
Deep they went; the water rose to Richard's feet, then to the horse's
neck; then the horse was swimming, and Osmond too, still keeping his firm
hold; then there was ground again, the force of the current was less, and
they were gaining the bank.  At that instant, however, they perceived two
men aiming at them with cross-bows from the castle, and another standing
on the bank above them, who called out
returned Osmond
replied the Seneschal
exclaimed Bertrand, hurrying down to the landing-place, and
throwing off his cap
rang out the shout from the
men-at-arms on the battlements above and in an instant more Osmond had
led the horse up from the water, and was exclaiming
cried the
Seneschal
said Osmond, looking anxiously at Richard, who,
even at the welcome cries that showed so plainly that he was in his own
Normandy, scarcely raised himself or spoke
said the Seneschal
Osmond, however, could scarcely rejoice, so alarmed was he at the extreme
weariness and exhaustion of his charge, who, when they brought him into
the Castle hall, hardly spoke or looked, and could not eat.  They carried
him up to Alberic's bed, where he tossed about restlessly, too tired to
sleep
said Osmond
said the Seneschal's wife, coming into the
room
Osmond was sure his Duke was among friends, and would have been glad to
trust him to a woman; but Richard had but one instinct left in all his
weakness and exhaustion -- to cling close to Osmond, as if he felt him his
only friend and protector; for he was, as yet, too much worn out to
understand that he was in Normandy and safe.  For two or three hours,
therefore, Osmond and the Seneschal's wife watched on each side of his
bed, soothing his restlessness, until at length he became quiet, and at
last dropped sound asleep.

The sun was high in the heavens when Richard awoke.  He turned on his
straw-filled crib, and looked up.  It was not the tapestried walls of his
chamber at Laon that met his opening eyes, but the rugged stone and tall
loop-hole window of a turret chamber.  Osmond de Centeville lay on the
floor by his side, in the sound sleep of one overcome by long watching
and weariness.  And what more did Richard see?

It was the bright face and sparkling eyes of Alberic de Montemar, who was
leaning against the foot of his bed, gazing earnestly, as he watched for
his waking.  There was a cry
Richard sat up and held out both arms, and Alberic flung himself into
them.  They hugged each other, and uttered broken exclamations and
screams of joy, enough to have awakened any sleeper but one so wearied
out as Osmond
cried Richard
said Richard
said Alberic, standing by the window
Richard bounded to the window, and what a sight met his eyes! The Castle
court was thronged with men-at-arms and horses, the morning sun sparkling
on many a burnished hauberk and tall conical helmet, and above them waved
many a banner and pennon that Richard knew full well
he
shouted aloud with glee
said Alberic
said Richard, crossing himself and kneeling
reverently for some minutes, while he repeated his Latin prayer; then,
rising and looking at Alberic, he said
And, holding Alberic's hand, Richard left the room, and descended the
stairs to the Castle hall.  Many of the Norman knights and barons, in
full armour, were gathered there; but Richard looked only for one.  He
knew Sir Eric's grizzled hair, and blue inlaid armour, though his back
was towards him, and in a moment, before his entrance had been perceived,
he sprang towards him, and, with outstretched arms, exclaimed
The old Baron turned
he exclaimed, and clasped him in his
mailed arms, while the tears flowed down his rugged cheeks
Richard stood up, and held out his hand, bowing courteously and
acknowledging the greetings of each bold baron, with a grace and
readiness he certainly had not when he left Normandy.  He was taller too;
and though still pale, and not dressed with much care (since he had
hurried on his clothes with no help but Alberic's)-- though his hair was
rough and disordered, and the scar of the burn had not yet faded from his
check -- yet still, with his bright blue eyes, glad face, and upright form,
he was a princely, promising boy, and the Norman knights looked at him
with pride and joy, more especially when, unprompted, he said
Sir Eric led him to the door of the hall to the top of the steps, that
the men-at-arms might see him; and then such a shout rang out of
that it echoed and
came back again from the hills around -- it pealed from the old tower -- it
roused Osmond from his sleep -- and, if anything more had been wanting to
do so, it made Richard feel that he was indeed in a land where every
heart glowed with loyal love for him.

Before the shout had died away, a bugle-horn was heard winding before the
gate; and Sir Eric, saying
sent
Bertrand to open the gates in haste, while Alberic followed, as Lord of
the Castle, to receive the Count.

The old Count rode into the court, and to the foot of the steps, where he
dismounted, Alberic holding his stirrup.  He had not taken many steps
upwards before Richard came voluntarily to meet him (which he had never
done before), held out his hand, and said
said Bernard
said Bernard
said Richard, as Osmond came down,
awakened at length
15
said Osmond, half asleep
What a glad summer's day was that! Even the three hours spent in council
did but renew the relish with which Richard visited Alberic's treasures,
told his adventures, and showed the accomplishments he had learnt at
Laon.  The evening was more joyous still; for the Castle gates were
opened, first to receive Dame Yolande Montemar, and not above a quarter
of an hour afterwards, the drawbridge was lowered to admit the followers
of Centeville; and in front of them appeared Fru Astrida's own high cap.
Richard made but one bound into her arms, and was clasped to her breast;
then held off at arm's-length, that she might see how much he was grown,
and pity his scar; then hugged closer than ever: but, taking another
look, she declared that Osmond left his hair like King Harald
Horrid-locks; {16} and, drawing an ivory comb from her pouch, began to
pull out the thick tangles, hurting him to a degree that would once have
made him rebel, but now he only fondled her the more.

As to Osmond, when he knelt before her, she blessed him, and sobbed over
him, and blamed him for over-tiring her darling, all in one; and
assuredly, when night closed in and Richard had, as of old, told his
beads beside her knee, the happiest boy in Normandy was its little Duke
Montemar was too near the frontier to be a safe abode for the little
Duke, and his uncle, Count Hubert of Senlis, agreed with Bernard the Dane
that he would be more secure beyond the limits of his own duchy, which
was likely soon to be the scene of war; and, sorely against his will, he
was sent in secret, under a strong escort, first to the Castle of Coucy,
and afterwards to Senlis.

His consolation was, that he was not again separated from his friends;
Alberic, Sir Eric, and even Fru Astrida, accompanied him, as well as his
constant follower, Osmond.  Indeed, the Baron would hardly bear that he
should be out of his sight; and he was still so carefully watched, that
it was almost like a captivity.  Never, even in the summer days, was he
allowed to go beyond the Castle walls; and his guardians would fain have
had it supposed that the Castle did not contain any such guest.

Osmond did not give him so much of his company as usual, but was always
at work in the armourer's forge -- a low, vaulted chamber, opening into the
Castle court.  Richard and Alberic were very curious to know what he did
there; but he fastened the door with an iron bar, and they were forced to
content themselves with listening to the strokes of the hammer, keeping
time to the voice that sang out, loud and cheerily, the song of
Fru Astrida
said Osmond was quite right -- no good weapon-smith ever toiled with open
doors; and when the boys asked him questions as to his work, he only
smiled, and said that they would see what it was when the call to arms
should come.

They thought it near at hand, for tidings came that Louis had assembled
his army, and marched into Normandy to recover the person of the young
Duke, and to seize the country.  No summons, however, arrived, but a
message came instead, that Rouen had been surrendered into the bands of
the King.  Richard shed indignant tears
said Osmond
said the old Baron
cried Richard
said the Baron
Richard was silent, remembering he had been once unjust, but he grieved
heartily when he thought of the French in Rollo's tower, and it was
further reported that the King was about to share Normandy among his
French vassals.  A fresh outcry broke out in the little garrison of
Senlis, but Sir Eric still persisted in his trust in his friend Bernard,
even when he heard that Centeville was marked out as the prey of the fat
French Count who had served for a hostage at Rouen
said he, after a conference with a messenger
at the gate
said Richard, pausing
said
Richard
said Sir Eric, smiling
said Fru Astrida
said Osmond
returned the Baron
said Osmond
broke in Fru Astrida
said the grey warrior, in all humility
The next morning, Osmond's steed was led to the door, and such
men-at-arms as could be spared from the garrison of Senlis were drawn up
in readiness to accompany him.  The boys stood on the steps, wishing they
were old enough to be warriors, and wondering what had become of him,
until at length the sound of an opening door startled them, and there, in
the low archway of the smithy, the red furnace glowing behind him, stood
Osmond, clad in bright steel, the links of his hauberk reflecting the
light, and on his helmet a pair of golden wings, while the same device
adorned his long pointed kite-shaped shield
cried Richard
said Sir Eric
With such farewells, Osmond quitted Senlis, while the two boys hastened
to the battlements to watch him as long as he remained in view.

The highest tower became their principal resort, and their eyes were
constantly on the heath where he had disappeared; but days passed, and
they grew weary of the watch, and betook themselves to games in the
Castle court.

One day, Alberic, in the character of a Dragon, was lying on his back,
panting hard so as to be supposed to cast out volumes of flame and smoke
at Richard, the Knight, who with a stick for a lance, and a wooden sword,
was waging fierce war; when suddenly the Dragon paused, sat up, and
pointed towards the warder on the tower.  His horn was at his lips, and
in another moment, the blast rang out through the Castle.

With a loud shout, both boys rushed headlong up the turret stairs, and
came to the top so breathless, that they could not even ask the warder
what he saw.  He pointed, and the keen-eyed Alberic exclaimed
said Richard
said Alberic, a little anxiously,
looking into the warder's face, for he was a borderer, and tales of
terror of the inroad of the Vicomte du Contentin were rife on the marches
of the Epte
said the warder
said
Sir Eric, who had by this time joined them
cried Richard, dancing with
eagerness, so that Sir Eric caught hold of him, exclaiming
said Alberic
said the warder
exclaimed Sir Eric,
as the figure became more developed
said Richard
The drawbridge was lowered, the portcullis raised, and as all the
dwellers in the Castle stood gathered in the court, in rode the warrior
with the winged helm, bearing in his hand a drooping banner; lowering it
as he entered, it unfolded, and displayed, trailing on the ground at the
feet of the little Duke of Normandy, the golden lilies of France.

A shout of amazement arose, and all gathered round him, asking hurried
questions
Richard would not be denied holding his hand, and leading him to the
hall, and there, sitting around him, they heard his tidings.  His
father's first question was, what he thought of their kinsmen, the Danes
said Osmond, smiling, and shaking
his head
said Sir Eric
Osmond could not see that a man was braver for being a savage, but he
held his peace; and Richard impatiently begged to hear how the battle had
gone, and where it had been fought
said Osmond
exclaimed Richard, with such dignity of tone and manner, as made
all feel he was indeed their Duke, and forget his tender years
said Osmond
said
Fru Astrida
cried Richard
said Osmond, slyly
said Richard, proudly
said Father Lucas
After nearly a year's captivity, the King engaged to pay a ransom, and,
until the terms could be arranged, his two sons were to be placed as
hostages in the hands of the Normans, whilst he returned to his own
domains.  The Princes were to be sent to Bayeux; whither Richard had
returned, under the charge of the Centevilles, and was now allowed to
ride and walk abroad freely, provided he was accompanied by a guard
said Richard
said good Father Lucas
The Duke's cheek flushed, and he made no answer.

He and Alberic betook themselves to the watch-tower, and, by and by, saw
a cavalcade approaching, with a curtained vehicle in the midst, slung
between two horses
said Alberic
exclaimed Richard, in dismay
Richard met the Princes in the court, his sunny hair uncovered, and
bowing with such becoming courtesy, that Fru Astrida pressed her son's
arm, and bade him say if their little Duke was not the fairest and
noblest child in Christendom.

With black looks, Lothaire stepped from the litter, took no heed of the
little Duke, but, roughly calling his attendant, Charlot, to follow him,
he marched into the hall, vouchsafing neither word nor look to any as he
passed, threw himself into the highest seat, and ordered Charlot to bring
him some wine.

Meanwhile, Richard, looking into the litter, saw Carloman crouching in a
corner, sobbing with fright
Carloman looked, caught at the outstretched hand, and clung to his neck
said Richard
as the poor boy clung sobbing to him.

Fru Astrida advanced to take his hand, speaking in a soothing voice, but
he shrank and started with a fresh cry of terror -- her tall figure, high
cap, and wrinkled face, were to him witch-like, and as she knew no
French, he understood not her kind words.  However, he let Richard lead
him into the hall, where Lothaire sat moodily in the chair, with one leg
tucked under him, and his finger in his mouth
said he
Richard tried to repress his anger at this very uncivil way of speaking,
and answered, that he thought there was none, but there was plenty of
Norman cider
trembled on Richard's lips, but he
forced it back, and answered that it would soon be ready, and Carloman
looked imploringly at his brother, and said
said Lothaire
said Richard
began Richard
muttered the
Baron
returned Fru Astrida
said Osmond; and, indeed, the
high-spirited, impetuous boy was as soft and kind as a maiden, with that
feeble, timid child.  He coaxed him to eat, consoled him, and, instead of
laughing at his fears, kept between him and the great bloodhound
Hardigras, and drove it off when it came too near
said Lothaire, imperiously.  No one moved to obey
him, and the dog, in seeking for scraps, again came towards him
he repeated, and struck it with his foot.  The dog
growled, and Richard started up in indignation
he said
cried
the passionate boy, stamping on the floor
said the rough voice of Walter the huntsman
began Richard; but Lothaire had caught up a
footstool, and was aiming it at the huntsman, when his arm was caught.

Osmond, who knew him well enough to be prepared for such outbreaks, held
him fast by both hands, in spite of his passionate screams and struggles,
which were like those of one frantic.

Sir Eric, meanwhile, thundered forth in his Norman patois
Either Lothaire did not hear, or did not believe, and fought more
furiously in Osmond's arms, but he had little chance with the stalwart
young warrior, and, in spite of Richard's remonstrances, he was carried
from the hall, roaring and kicking, and locked up alone in an empty room
said Sir Eric, putting the Duke aside
Here Richard had to turn, to reassure Carloman, who had taken refuge in a
dark corner, and there shook like an aspen leaf, crying bitterly, and
starting with fright, when Richard touched him
Richard again tried to comfort him, but he did not seem to hear or heed
repeated Carloman
Richard told his story, and was glad to find Carloman could smile at it;
and then Fru Astrida advised him to take his little friend to bed.
Carloman would not lie down without still holding Richard's hand, and the
little Duke spared no pains to set him at rest, knowing what it was to be
a desolate captive far from home
said Carloman
The child rose on his elbow, and looked into Richard's face
said Richard
said Carloman
said Richard, crossing himself
said Carloman
Poor little Carloman could only repeat the Lord's Prayer in Latin -- he had
not the least notion of its meaning -- in which Richard had been carefully
instructed by Father Lucas.  He began to explain it, but before many
words had passed his lips, little Carloman was asleep.

The Duke crept softly away to beg to be allowed to go to Lothaire; he
entered the room, already dark, with a pine torch in his hand, that so
flickered in the wind, that he could at first see nothing, but presently
beheld a dark lump on the floor
he said
Lothaire cut him short
he said
Richard's temper did not serve for such a reply
And he swung back the heavy door with a resounding clang.  But his heart
smote him when he told his beads, and remembered what he had said to
Carloman.  He knew he could not sleep in his warm bed when Lothaire was
in that cold gusty room.  To be sure, Sir Eric said it would do him good,
but Sir Eric little knew how tender the French Princes were.

So Richard crept down in the dark, slid back the bolt, and called
said Lothaire
Lothaire was subdued by fright, cold, and darkness, and quietly allowed
Richard to lead him down.  Round the fire, at the lower end of the hall,
snored half-a-dozen men-at-arms; at the upper hearth there was only
Hardigras, who raised his head as the boys came in.  Richard's whisper
and soft pat quieted him instantly, and the two little Princes sat on the
hearth together, Lothaire surprised, but sullen.  Richard stirred the
embers, so as to bring out more heat, then spoke
Richard thought his advances might have been more graciously met, and,
having little encouragement to say more, took Lothaire to bed, as soon as
he was warm
As the Baron had said, there was more peace now that Lothaire had learnt
to know that he must submit, and that no one cared for his threats of his
father's or his mother's vengeance.  He was very sulky and disagreeable,
and severely tried Richard's forbearance; but there were no fresh
outbursts, and, on the whole, from one week to another, there might be
said to be an improvement.  He could not always hold aloof from one so
good-natured and good-humoured as the little Duke; and the fact of being
kept in order could not but have some beneficial effect on him, after
such spoiling as his had been at home.

Indeed, Osmond was once heard to say, it was a pity the boy was not to be
a hostage for life; to which Sir Eric replied
Little Carloman, meanwhile, recovered from his fears of all the inmates
of the Castle excepting Hardigras, at whose approach he always shrank and
trembled.

He renewed his friendship with Osmond, no longer started at the entrance
of Sir Eric, laughed at Alberic's merry ways, and liked to sit on Fru
Astrida's lap, and hear her sing, though he understood not one word; but
his especial love was still for his first friend, Duke Richard.
Hand-in-hand they went about together, Richard sometimes lifting him up
the steep steps, and, out of consideration for him, refraining from rough
play; and Richard led him to join with him in those lessons that Father
Lucas gave the children of the Castle, every Friday and Sunday evening in
the Chapel.  The good Priest stood on the Altar steps, with the children
in a half circle round him -- the son and daughter of the armourer, the
huntsman's little son, the young Baron de Montemar, the Duke of Normandy,
and the Prince of France, all were equal there -- and together they learnt,
as he explained to them the things most needful to believe; and thus
Carloman left off wondering why Richard thought it right to be good to
his enemies; and though at first he had known less than even the little
leather-coated huntsman, he seemed to take the holy lessons in faster
than any of them -- yes, and act on them, too.  His feeble health seemed to
make him enter into their comfort and meaning more than even Richard; and
Alberic and Father Lucas soon told Fru Astrida that it was a
saintly-minded child.

Indeed, Carloman was more disposed to thoughtfulness, because he was
incapable of joining in the sports of the other boys.  A race round the
court was beyond his strength, the fresh wind on the battlements made him
shiver and cower, and loud shouting play was dreadful to him.  In old
times, he used to cry when Lothaire told him he must have his hair cut,
and be a priest; now, he only said quietly, he should like it very much,
if he could be good enough.

Fru Astrida sighed and shook her head, and feared the poor child would
never grow up to be anything on this earth.  Great as had been the
difference at first between him and Richard, it was now far greater.
Richard was an unusually strong boy for ten years old, upright and
broad-chested, and growing very fast; while Carloman seemed to dwindle,
stooped forward from weakness, had thin pinched features, and sallow
cheeks, looking like a plant kept in the dark.

The old Baron said that hardy, healthy habits would restore the puny
children; and Lothaire improved in health, and therewith in temper; but
his little brother had not strength enough to bear the seasoning.  He
pined and drooped more each day; and as the autumn came on, and the wind
was chilly, he grew worse, and was scarcely ever off the lap of the kind
Lady Astrida.  It was not a settled sickness, but he grew weaker, and
wasted away.  They made up a little couch for him by the fire, with the
high settle between it and the door, to keep off the draughts; and there
he used patiently to lie, hour after hour, speaking feebly, or smiling
and seeming pleased, when any one of those he loved approached.  He liked
Father Lucas to come and say prayers with him; and he never failed to
have a glad look, when his dear little Duke came to talk to him, in his
cheerful voice, about his rides and his hunting and hawking adventures.
Richard's sick guest took up much of his thoughts, and he never willingly
spent many hours at a distance from him, softening his step and lowering
his voice, as he entered the hall, lest Carloman should be asleep
said the little boy, as the young figure came round
the settle in the darkening twilight
and the little wasted fingers were put
into his
said the little boy
said Richard, thoughtfully
said Carloman
He spoke feebly, and his last words faltered into sleep.  He slept on;
and when supper was brought, and the lamps were lighted, Fru Astrida
thought the little face looked unusually pale and waxen; but he did not
awake.  At night, they carried him to his bed, and he was roused into a
half conscious state, moaning at being disturbed.  Fru Astrida would not
leave him, and Father Lucas shared her watch.

At midnight, all were wakened by the slow notes, falling one by one on
the ear, of the solemn passing-bell, calling them to waken, that their
prayers might speed a soul on its way.  Richard and Lothaire were soon at
the bedside.  Carloman lay still asleep, his hands folded on his breast,
but his breath came in long gasps.  Father Lucas was praying over him,
and candles were placed on each side of the bed.  All was still, the boys
not daring to speak or move.  There came a longer breath -- then they heard
no more.  He was, indeed, gone to a happier home -- a truer royalty than
ever had been his on earth.

Then the boys' grief burst out.  Lothaire screamed for his mother, and
sobbed out that he should die too -- he must go home.  Richard stood by the
bed, large silent tears rolling down his cheeks, and his chest heaving
with suppressed sobs.

Fru Astrida led them from the room, back to their beds.  Lothaire soon
cried himself to sleep.  Richard lay awake, sorrowful, and in deep
thought; while that scene in St. Mary's, at Rouen, returned before his
eyes, and though it had passed nearly two years ago, its meaning and its
teaching had sunk deep into his mind, and now stood before him more
completely
And a resolution was taken in the mind of the little Duke.

Morning came, and brought back the sense that his gentle little companion
was gone from him; and Richard wept again, as if he could not be
consoled, as he beheld the screened couch where the patient smile would
never again greet him.  He now knew that he had loved Carloman all the
more for his weakness and helplessness; but his grief was not like
Lothaire's, for with the Prince's was still joined a selfish fear: his
cry was still, that he should die too, if not set free, and violent
weeping really made him heavy and ill.

The little corpse, embalmed and lapped in lead, was to be sent back to
France, that it might rest with its forefathers in the city of Rheims;
and Lothaire seemed to feel this as an additional stroke of desertion.
He was almost beside himself with despair, imploring every one, in turn,
to send him home, though he well knew they were unable to do so
said Richard
replied Richard.  The Baron made no objection,
only telling his mother that the Duke was a marvellous wise child, and
that he would soon be fit to take the government himself.

Lothaire lamented the more when he found that Richard was going away; his
presence seemed to him a protection, and he fancied, now Carloman was
dead, that his former injuries were about to be revenged.  The Duke
assured him, repeatedly, that he meant him nothing but kindness, adding
then, commending him to the care
and kindness of Fru Astrida, Osmond, and Alberic, Richard set forth upon
his pony, attended by Sir Eric and three men-at-arms.

Richard felt sad when he looked back at Bayeux, and thought that it no
longer contained his dear little friend; but it was a fresh bright frosty
morning, the fields were covered with a silvery-white coating, the flakes
of hoar-frost sparkled on every bush, and the hard ground rung cheerily
to the tread of the horses' feet.  As the yellow sun fought his way
through the grey mists that dimmed his brightness, and shone out merrily
in the blue heights of the sky, Richard's spirits rose, and he laughed
and shouted, as hare or rabbit rushed across the heath, or as the plover
rose screaming above his head, flapping her broad wings across the wintry
sky.

One night they slept at a Convent, where they heard that Hugh of Paris
had passed on to join the conference at Falaise.  The next day they rode
on, and, towards the afternoon, the Baron pointed to a sharp rocky range
of hills, crowned by a tall solid tower, and told Richard, yonder was his
keep of Falaise, the strongest Castle in Normandy.

The country was far more broken as they advanced -- narrow valleys and
sharp hills, each little vale full of wood, and interspersed with rocks
Sir Eric said and Richard, as he saw a herd of
deer dash down a forest glade, exclaimed
There seemed to be huntsmen abroad in the woods; for through the frosty
air came the baying of dogs, the shouts and calls of men, and, now and
then, the echoing, ringing notes of a bugle.  Richard's eyes and cheeks
glowed with excitement, and he pushed his brisk little pony on faster and
faster, unheeding that the heavier men and horses of his suite were not
keeping pace with him on the rough ground and through the tangled boughs.

Presently, a strange sound of growling and snarling was heard close at
hand: his pony swerved aside, and could not be made to advance; so
Richard, dismounting, dashed through some briars, and there, on an open
space, beneath a precipice of dark ivy-covered rock, that rose like a
wall, he beheld a huge grey wolf and a large dog in mortal combat.  It
was as if they had fallen or rolled down the precipice together, not
heeding it in their fury.  Both were bleeding, and the eyes of both
glared like red fiery glass in the dark shadow of the rock.  The dog lay
undermost, almost overpowered, making but a feeble resistance; and the
wolf would, in another moment, be at liberty to spring on the lonely
child.

But not a thought of fear passed through his breast; to save the dog was
Richard's only idea.  In one moment he had drawn the dagger he wore at
his girdle, ran to the two struggling animals, and with all his force,
plunged it into the throat of the wolf, which, happily, was still held by
the teeth of the hound.

The struggles relaxed, the wolf rolled heavily aside, dead; the dog lay
panting and bleeding, and Richard feared he was cruelly torn
and he gently smoothed
the dark brindled head.

A voice was now heard shouting aloud, at which the dog raised and crested
his head, as a figure in a hunting dress was coming down a rocky pathway,
an extremely tall, well-made man, of noble features
he said in the Northern tongue, though
not quite with the accent Richard was accustomed to hear
Richard called out, as the faithful creature wagged
his tail, and strove to rise and meet his master
exclaimed the hunter, amazed at seeing the boy
between the dead wolf and wounded dog
said Richard
said the stranger, all
the time examining and caressing the hound
As he spoke, more shouts came near; and the Baron de Centeville rushed
through the trees holding Richard's pony by the bridle
At the same moment a party of
hunters also approached by the path, and at the head of them Bernard the
Dane
exclaimed he
And with a hasty obeisance, Bernard took Richard's outstretched
hand
replied Richard
said the
dog's master, slapping his hand on the little Duke's shoulder, with a
rude, hearty familiarity, that took him by surprise; and he looked up
with a shade of offence, till, on a sudden flash of perception, he took
off his cap, exclaiming
Richard recoiled a little from his new friend
was Richard's answer
Richard feared this would be more difficult; but Abbot Martin came to the
meeting, and took his part.  Moreover, the idea of their hostage dying in
their hands, so as to leave them without hold upon the King, had much
weight with them; and, after long deliberation, they consented that
Lothaire should be restored to his father, without ransom but only on
condition that Louis should guarantee to the Duke the peaceable
possession of the country, as far as St. Clair sur Epte, which had been
long in dispute; so that Alberic became, indisputably, a vassal of
Normandy.

Perhaps it was the happiest day in Richard's life when he rode back to
Bayeux, to desire Lothaire to prepare to come with him to St. Clair,
there to be given back into the hands of his father.

And then they met King Louis, grave and sorrowful for the loss of his
little Carloman, and, for the time, repenting of his misdeeds towards the
orphan heir of Normandy.

He pressed the Duke in his arms, and his kiss was a genuine one as he
said
Lothaire's last words were
When Richard once more entered Rouen in state, his subjects shouting
round him in transports of joy, better than all his honour and glory was
the being able to enter the Church of our Lady, and kneel by his father's
grave, with a clear conscience, and the sense that he had tried to keep
that last injunction
Years had passed away.  The oaths of Louis, and promises of Lothaire, had
been broken; and Arnulf of Flanders, the murderer of Duke William, had
incited them to repeated and treacherous inroads on Normandy; so that
Richard's life, from fourteen to five or six-and-twenty, had been one
long war in defence of his country.  But it had been a glorious war for
him, and his gallant deeds had well earned for him the title of
a name well deserved; for there was but one thing he
feared, and that was, to do wrong.

By and by, success and peace came; and then Arnulf of Flanders, finding
open force would not destroy him, three times made attempts to
assassinate him, like his father, by treachery.  But all these had
failed; and now Richard had enjoyed many years of peace and honour,
whilst his enemies had vanished from his sight.

King Louis was killed by a fall from his horse; Lothaire died in early
youth, and in him ended the degenerate line of Charlemagne; Hugh Capet,
the son of Richard's old friend, Hugh the White, was on the throne of
France, his sure ally and brother-in-law, looking to him for advice and
aid in all his undertakings.

Fru Astrida and Sir Eric had long been in their quiet graves; Osmond and
Alberic were among Richard's most trusty councillors and warriors; Abbot
Martin, in extreme old age, still ruled the Abbey of Jumieges, where
Richard, like his father, loved to visit him, hold converse with him, and
refresh himself in the peaceful cloister, after the affairs of state and
war.

And Richard himself was a grey-headed man, of lofty stature and majestic
bearing.  His eldest son was older than he had been himself when he
became the little Duke, and he had even begun to remember his father's
project, of an old age to be spent in retirement and peace.

It was on a summer eve, that Duke Richard sat beside the white-bearded
old Abbot, within the porch, looking at the sun shining with soft
declining beams on the arches and columns.  They spoke together of that
burial at Rouen, and of the silver key; the Abbot delighting to tell,
over and over again, all the good deeds and good sayings of William
Longsword.

As they sat, a man, also very old and shrivelled and bent, came up to the
cloister gate, with the tottering, feeble step of one pursued beyond his
strength, coming to take sanctuary
said the Duke, in
surprise.

At the sight of him, a look of terror shot from the old man's eye.  He
clasped his hands together, and turned as if to flee; then, finding
himself incapable of escape, he threw himself on the ground before him
was all he said
said Richard, trying to raise him; but at those words the old
man groaned and crouched lower still
said the Duke
said the suppliant
said the Duke
There was a deep silence
said Richard
17}

Tears of gratitude and true repentance choked Arnulf's speech, and he
allowed himself to be raised from the ground, and was forced to accept
the support of the Duke's arm.

The venerable Abbot slowly rose, and held up his hand in an attitude of
blessing
Footnotes:


{1}  Richard's place of education was Bayeaux; for, as Duke William says
in the rhymed Chronicle of Normandy
2}  Bernard was founder of the family of Harcourt of Nuneham.
Ferrieres, the ancestor of that of Ferrars.

{3}  In the same Chronicle, William Longsword directs that
4}  Hako of Norway was educated by Ethelstane of England.  It was
Foulques le Bon, the contemporary Count of Anjou, who, when derided by
Louis IV. for serving in the choir of Tours, wrote the following retort
5}  The Banner of Normandy was a cross till William the Conqueror
adopted the lion.

{6
_Histoire des Ducs de Normandie_ (MICHEL).

{7}  The Cathedral was afterwards built by Richard himself.

{8}  Sus le maistre autel del iglise
Li unt sa feaute juree.

{9}

    Une clef d'argent unt trovee
    A sun braiol estreit noee.
    Tout la gent se merveillont
    Que cete clef signifiont.
    * * * *
    Ni la cuoule e l'estamine
    En aveit il en un archete,
    Que disfermeront ceste clavete
    De sol itant ert tresorier
    Kar nul tresor n'vait plus cher.

The history of the adventures of Jumieges is literally true, as is
Martin's refusal to admit the Duke to the cloister:--

    Dun ne t'a Deus mis e pose
    Prince gardain de sainte iglise
    E cur tenir leial justise.

{10}  An attack, in which Riouf, Vicomte du Cotentin, placed Normandy in
the utmost danger.  He was defeated on the banks of the Seine, in a field
still called the
on the very day of Richard's birth;
so that the _Te Deum_ was sung at once for the victory and the birth of
the heir of Normandy.

{11
MICHEL.

{12}  In a battle fought with Lothaire at Charmenil, Richard saved the
life of Walter the huntsman, who had been with him from his youth.

{13}  At fourteen years of age, Richard was betrothed to Eumacette of
Paris, then but eight years old.  In such esteem did Hugues la Blanc hold
his son-in-law, that, on his death-bed, he committed his son Hugues Capet
to his guardianship, though the Duke was then scarcely above twenty,
proposing him as the model of wisdom and of chivalry.

{14
MICHEL.

{15
is the original coat of
St. Maur, or Seymour, said to be derived from Osmond de Centeville, who
assumed them in honour of his flight with Duke Richard.  His direct
descendants in Normandy were the Marquises of Osmond, whose arms were
gules, two wings ermine.  In 1789 there were two survivors of the line of
Centeville, one a Canon of Notre Dame, the other a Chevalier de St.
Louis, who died childless.

{16}  Harald of Norway, who made a vow never to trim his hair till he had
made himself sole king of the country.  The war lasted ten years, and he
thus might well come to deserve the title of Horrid-locks, which was
changed to that of Harfagre, or fair-haired, when he celebrated his final
victory, by going into a bath at More, and committing his shaggy hair to
be cut and arranged by his friend Jarl Rognwald, father of Rollo.

{17}  Richard obtained for Arnulf the restitution of Arras, and several
other Flemish towns.  He died eight years afterwards, in 996, leaving
several children, among whom his daughter Emma is connected with English
history, by her marriage, first, with Ethelred the Unready, and secondly,
with Knute, the grandson of his firm friend and ally, Harald Blue-tooth.
His son was Richard, called the Good; his grandson, Robert the
Magnificent; his great-grandson, William the Conqueror, who brought the
Norman race to England.  Few names in history shine with so consistent a
lustre as that of Richard; at first the little Duke, afterwards Richard
aux longues jambes, but always Richard sans peur.  This little sketch has
only brought forward the perils of his childhood, but his early manhood
was likewise full of adventures, in which he always proved himself brave,
honourable, pious, and forbearing.  But for these our readers must search
for themselves into early French history, where all they will find
concerning our hero will only tend to exalt his character
</text>
