<text>
_TO_

          JOHN BLAND


          _My Lamb, you are so very small,
          You have not learned to read at all;
          Yet never a printed book withstands
          The urgence of your dimpled hands.
          So, though this book is for yourself,
          Let mother keep it on the shelf
          Till you can read. O days that pass,
          That day will come too soon, alas
The house was three miles from the station, but, before the dusty hired
hack had rattled along for five minutes, the children began to put their
heads out of the carriage window and say
And
every time they passed a house, which was not very often, they all said
But it never was, till they reached the very top of
the hill, just past the chalk-quarry and before you come to the
gravel-pit. And then there was a white house with a green garden and an
orchard beyond, and mother said
said Robert
said Anthea
said Jane
Cyril admitted.

The Baby said
and the hack stopped with a last rattle
and jolt.

Everyone got its legs kicked or its feet trodden on in the scramble to
get out of the carriage that very minute, but no one seemed to mind.
Mother, curiously enough, was in no hurry to get out; and even when she
had come down slowly and by the step, and with no jump at all, she
seemed to wish to see the boxes carried in, and even to pay the driver,
instead of joining in that first glorious rush round the garden and
orchard and the thorny, thistly, briery, brambly wilderness beyond the
broken gate and the dry fountain at the side of the house. But the
children were wiser, for once. It was not really a pretty house at all;
it was quite ordinary, and mother thought it was rather inconvenient,
and was quite annoyed at there being no shelves, to speak of, and hardly
a cupboard in the place. Father used to say that the iron-work on the
roof and coping was like an architect's nightmare. But the house was
deep in the country, with no other house in sight, and the children had
been in London for two years, without so much as once going to the
seaside even for a day by an excursion train, and so the White House
seemed to them a sort of Fairy Palace set down in an Earthly Paradise.
For London is like prison for children, especially if their relations
are not rich.

&lsqb;That first glorious rush round the garden&rsqb;

Of course there are the shops and theatres, and entertainments and
things, but if your people are rather poor you don't get taken to the
theatres, and you can't buy things out of the shops; and London has none
of those nice things that children may play with without hurting the
things or themselves -- such as trees and sand and woods and waters. And
nearly everything in London is the wrong sort of shape -- all straight
lines and flat streets, instead of being all sorts of odd shapes, like
things are in the country. Trees are all different, as you know, and I
am sure some tiresome person must have told you that there are no two
blades of grass exactly alike. But in streets, where the blades of grass
don't grow, everything is like everything else. This is why many
children who live in the towns are so extremely naughty. They do not
know what is the matter with them, and no more do their fathers and
mothers, aunts, uncles, cousins, tutors, governesses, and nurses; but I
know. And so do you, now. Children in the country are naughty sometimes,
too, but that is for quite different reasons.

The children had explored the gardens and the outhouses thoroughly
before they were caught and cleaned for tea, and they saw quite well
that they were certain to be happy at the White House. They thought so
from the first moment, but when they found the back of the house covered
with jasmine, all in white flower, and smelling like a bottle of the
most expensive perfume that is ever given for a birthday present; and
when they had seen the lawn, all green and smooth, and quite different
from the brown grass in the gardens at Camden Town; and when they found
the stable with a loft over it and some old hay still left, they were
almost certain; and when Robert had found the broken swing and tumbled
out of it and got a bump on his head the size of an egg, and Cyril had
nipped his finger in the door of a hutch that seemed made to keep
rabbits in, if you ever had any, they had no longer any doubts
whatever.

&lsqb;Cyril had nipped his finger in the door of a hutch&rsqb;

The best part of it all was that there were no rules about not going to
places and not doing things. In London almost everything is labelled
and though the label is invisible it's just as bad,
because you know it's there, or if you don't you very soon get told.

The White House was on the edge of a hill, with a wood behind it -- and
the chalk-quarry on one side and the gravel-pit on the other. Down at
the bottom of the hill was a level plain, with queer-shaped white
buildings where people burnt lime, and a big red brewery and other
houses; and when the big chimneys were smoking and the sun was setting,
the valley looked as if it was filled with golden mist, and the
limekilns and hop-drying houses glimmered and glittered till they were
like an enchanted city out of the _Arabian Nights_.

Now that I have begun to tell you about the place, I feel that I could
go on and make this into a most interesting story about all the
ordinary things that the children did,-- just the kind of things you do
yourself, you know, and you would believe every word of it; and when I
told about the children's being tiresome, as you are sometimes, your
aunts would perhaps write in the margin of the story with a pencil
or
and you would see it and would very likely be
annoyed. So I will only tell you the really astonishing things that
happened, and you may leave the book about quite safely, for no aunts
and uncles either are likely to write
on the edge of the
story. Grown-up people find it very difficult to believe really
wonderful things, unless they have what they call proof. But children
will believe almost anything, and grown-ups know this. That is why they
tell you that the earth is round like an orange, when you can see
perfectly well that it is flat and lumpy; and why they say that the
earth goes round the sun, when you can see for yourself any day that the
sun gets up in the morning and goes to bed at night like a good sun as
it is, and the earth knows its place, and lies as still as a mouse. Yet
I daresay you believe all that about the earth and the sun, and if so
you will find it quite easy to believe that before Anthea and Cyril and
the others had been a week in the country they had found a fairy. At
least they called it that, because that was what it called itself; and
of course it knew best, but it was not at all like any fairy you ever
saw or heard of or read about.

It was at the gravel-pits. Father had to go away suddenly on business,
and mother had gone away to stay with Granny, who was not very well.
They both went in a great hurry, and when they were gone the house
seemed dreadfully quiet and empty, and the children wandered from one
room to another and looked at the bits of paper and string on the floors
left over from the packing, and not yet cleared up, and wished they had
something to do. It was Cyril who said
Anthea said
So they went. Of course they had been to the edge of the gravel-pit and
looked over, but they had not gone down into it for fear father should
say they mustn't play there, and it was the same with the chalk-quarry.
The gravel-pit is not really dangerous if you don't try to climb down
the edges, but go the slow safe way round by the road, as if you were a
cart.

Each of the children carried its own spade, and took it in turns to
carry the Lamb. He was the baby, and they called him that because "Baa"
was the first thing he ever said. They called Anthea
which
seems silly when you read it, but when you say it it sounds a little
like her name.

The gravel-pit is very large and wide, with grass growing round the
edges at the top, and dry stringy wildflowers, purple and yellow. It is
like a giant's washbowl. And there are mounds of gravel, and holes in
the sides of the bowl where gravel has been taken out, and high up in
the steep sides there are the little holes that are the little front
doors of the little bank-martins' little houses.

The children built a castle, of course, but castle-building is rather
poor fun when you have no hope of the swishing tide ever coming in to
fill up the moat and wash away the drawbridge, and, at the happy last,
to wet everybody up to the waist at least.

Cyril wanted to dig out a cave to play smugglers in, but the others
thought it might bury them alive, so it ended in all spades going to
work to dig a hole through the castle to Australia. These children, you
see, believed that the world was round, and that on the other side the
little Australian boys and girls were really walking wrong way up, like
flies on the ceiling, with their heads hanging down into the air.

The children dug and they dug and they dug, and their hands got sandy
and hot and red, and their faces got damp and shiny. The Lamb had tried
to eat the sand, and had cried so hard when he found that it was not,
as he had supposed, brown sugar, that he was now tired out, and was
lying asleep in a warm fat bunch in the middle of the half-finished
castle. This left his brothers and sisters free to work really hard, and
the hole that was to come out in Australia soon grew so deep that Jane,
who was called Pussy for short, begged the others to stop
said she
said Robert
Cyril and Anthea knew that Australia was not quite so near as all that,
but they agreed to stop using the spades and to go on with their hands.
This was quite easy, because the sand at the bottom of the hole was very
soft and fine and dry, like sea-sand. And there were little shells in
it
said
Jane
Cyril said
Robert asked
said his brother
The others agreed, but Anthea went on digging. She always liked to
finish a thing when she had once begun it. She felt it would be a
disgrace to leave that hole without getting through to Australia.

The cave was disappointing, because there were no shells, and the
wrecked ship's anchor turned out to be only the broken end of a pick-axe
handle, and the cave party were just making up their minds that sand
makes you thirstier when it is not by the seaside, and someone had
suggested that they all go home for lemonade, when Anthea suddenly
screamed
They all hurried back
said Robert
said Jane, shuddering
said Cyril, jumping into the hole
said Robert firmly. He shared Cyril's bedroom
Anthea suddenly screamed
said Anthea
said
Cyril, seizing a spade
said Anthea
But Cyril merely observed that his sister must have gone off her head,
and he and Robert dug with spades while Anthea sat on the edge of the
hole, jumping up and down with hotness and anxiety. They dug carefully,
and presently everyone could see that there really was something moving
in the bottom of the Australian hole.

Then Anthea cried out
and fell on her
knees and began to scratch like a dog does when he has suddenly
remembered where it was that he buried his bone
she cried, half laughing and half crying
when suddenly a dry husky voice in the sand made them
all jump back, and their hearts jumped nearly as fast as they did
it said. And now everyone heard the voice and looked at
the others to see if they had heard it too
said Robert bravely
said Anthea, also taking courage
the voice said, and the sand stirred
and spun and scattered, and something brown and furry and fat came
rolling out into the hole, and the sand fell off it, and it sat there
yawning and rubbing the ends of its eyes with its hands
it said, stretching itself.

The children stood round the hole in a ring, looking at the creature
they had found. It was worth looking at. Its eyes were on long horns
like a snail's eyes, and it could move them in and out like telescopes;
it had ears like a bat's ears, and its tubby body was shaped like a
spider's and covered with thick soft fur; its legs and arms were furry
too, and it had hands and feet like a monkey's
Jane said
The thing turned its long eyes to look at her, and said
It looked scornfully at Jane's hat as it spoke
Anthea said gently
it said
All its fur stood out like a cat's when
it is going to fight
said Anthea, still kindly
it said
said the creature sharply
It looked so grieved and hurt that Jane hastened to say
it said crossly,
beginning to curl up again in the sand
Robert cried
The Sand-fairy seemed a shade less disagreeable after this
it said
Of course no one could think of anything to say, but at last Robert
thought of
and he said it at once
replied the Psammead
Jane said
The Sand-fairy smoothed his long rat-like whiskers and smiled between
them
said the children all together.

It is wonderful how quickly you get used to things, even the most
astonishing. Five minutes before, the children had had no more idea than
you had that there was such a thing as a Sand-fairy in the world, and
now they were talking to it as though they had known it all their lives.

It drew its eyes in and said
said the children all at once. It is very difficult always to
remember that "what" is not polite, especially in moments of surprise or
agitation
the Sand-fairy went on.

The children were unable to reply
the Fairy said impatiently
said
Anthea, who meant to be a good housekeeper some day
said the Psammead
asked Cyril; but the Sand-fairy frowned and began to dig
very fast with its furry hands
they all cried
It stopped digging
it said
asked Robert
said the Psammead gloomily
Robert inquired.

The Sand-fairy shuddered
it said
said the children
said it
I daresay you have often thought what you would do if you had three
wishes given you, and have despised the old man and his wife in the
black-pudding story, and felt certain that if you had the chance you
could think of three really useful wishes without a moment's hesitation.
These children had often talked this matter over, but, now the chance
had suddenly come to them, they could not make up their minds
said the Sand-fairy crossly. No one could think of anything,
only Anthea did manage to remember a private wish of her own and Jane's
which they had never told the boys. She knew the boys would not care
about it -- but still it was better than nothing
she said in a great hurry.

The children looked at each other, but each could see that the others
were not any better-looking than usual. The Psammead pushed out his long
eyes, and seemed to be holding its breath and swelling itself out till
it was twice as fat and furry as before. Suddenly it let its breath go
in a long sigh
it said apologetically
The children were horribly disappointed
they said
said the Sand-fairy
said Jane and Anthea. The boys nodded. They did not
believe the Sand-fairy could do it. You can always make girls believe
things much easier than you can boys.

It stretched out its eyes farther than ever, and swelled and swelled and
swelled
said Anthea
Robert said anxiously.

Everyone was very much relieved when the Sand-fairy, after getting so
big that it almost filled up the hole in the sand, suddenly let out its
breath and went back to its proper size
it said, panting heavily
said Anthea
said he
It scratched suddenly and fiercely with its hands and feet, and
disappeared in the sand.

Then the children looked at each other, and each child suddenly found
itself alone with three perfect strangers, all radiantly beautiful.

They stood for some moments in silence. Each thought that its brothers
and sisters had wandered off, and that these strange children had stolen
up unnoticed while it was watching the swelling form of the Sand-fairy.
Anthea spoke first
she said very politely to Jane, who now had enormous blue
eyes and a cloud of russet hair
said Jane. And then Cyril cried
said
Anthea decidedly
said Robert angrily
It was indeed of that Venetian tint so much admired by artists
said Anthea
Baby was just waking up when they got to him, and not one of the
children but was relieved to find that he at least was not as beautiful
as the day, but just the same as usual
said Jane
Anthea ran forward and held out her arms
she said.

The Baby looked at her disapprovingly, and put a sandy pink thumb in his
mouth. Anthea was his favourite sister
she said
said the Baby
said Jane
said the Lamb dismally, and his lip trembled
said Robert
howled the Baby, giving way altogether. Then the
children knew the worst. _The Baby did not know them!_

&lsqb;The baby did not know them!&rsqb;

They looked at each other in despair, and it was terrible to each, in
this dire emergency, to meet only the beautiful eyes of perfect
strangers, instead of the merry, friendly, commonplace, twinkling, jolly
little eyes of its own brothers and sisters
said Cyril when he had tried to lift up the
Lamb, and the Lamb had scratched like a cat and bellowed like a bull
That, however, was exactly what they had to do. It took over an hour,
and the task was not rendered any easier by the fact that the Lamb was
by this time as hungry as a lion and as thirsty as a desert.

At last he consented to allow these strangers to carry him home by
turns, but as he refused to hold on to such new acquaintances he was a
dead weight, and most exhausting
said Jane, staggering through the iron
gate to where Martha, the nursemaid, stood at the front door shading her
eyes with her hand and looking out anxiously
Martha snatched the Baby from her arms
she said
said Robert
asked Martha scornfully
said Cyril
Martha merely dratted Cyril's impudence and tried to shut the door in
his face
With that she did bang the door. Cyril
rang the bell violently. No answer. Presently cook put her head out of a
bedroom window and said
And she slammed down the window
said Anthea
The boys said it was nonsense, and the law of England couldn't put you
in prison for just being as beautiful as the day, but all the same they
followed the others out into the lane
said Jane
Cyril said sadly
cried Anthea suddenly
She began to cry, so did Jane. Even the boys turned pale. No one had the
heart to say anything.

It was a horrible afternoon. There was no house near where the children
could beg a crust of bread or even a glass of water. They were afraid to
go to the village, because they had seen Martha go down there with a
basket, and there was a local constable. True, they were all as
beautiful as the day, but that is a poor comfort when you are as hungry
as a hunter and as thirsty as a sponge.

Three times they tried in vain to get the servants in the White House to
let them in and listen to their tale. And then Robert went alone, hoping
to be able to climb in at one of the back windows and so open the door
to the others. But all the windows were out of reach, and Martha emptied
a toilet-jug of cold water over him from a top window, and said
It came at last to their sitting down in a row under the hedge, with
their feet in a dry ditch, waiting for sunset, and wondering whether,
when the sun _did_ set, they would turn into stone, or only into their
own old natural selves; and each of them still felt lonely and among
strangers, and tried not to look at the others, for, though their voices
were their own, their faces were so radiantly beautiful as to be quite
irritating to look at
said Robert, breaking a long
miserable silence
The others said
but they weren't at all comforted.

Another silence, longer and more miserable, was broken by Cyril's
suddenly saying
said Robert kindly
But when it turned out that Cyril's foot had only gone to sleep through
his sitting too long with it under him, and when it came to life in an
agony of pins and needles, the others were quite cross
said Anthea.

&lsqb;Martha emptied a toilet-jug of cold water over him&rsqb;

The third and miserablest silence of all was broken by Jane. She
said
The others only grunted. They were too wretched even to make good
resolutions.

At last hunger and fright and crossness and tiredness -- four very nasty
things -- all joined together to bring one nice thing, and that was sleep.
The children lay asleep in a row, with their beautiful eyes shut and
their beautiful mouths open. Anthea woke first. The sun had set, and the
twilight was coming on.

Anthea pinched herself very hard, to make sure, and when she found she
could still feel pinching she decided that she was not stone, and then
she pinched the others. They, also, were soft
she said, almost in tears for joy
she added, so that they might not feel jealous.

When they got home they were very much scolded by Martha, who told them
about the strange children
said Robert, who knew by experience how hopeless it would be
to try to explain things to Martha
said Anthea
said Martha angrily
Anthea said; and
Robert, fixing his eyes fondly on the cold beef that was being brought
in on a tray by cook, added in heartfelt undertones
And they never have
Anthea woke in the morning from a very real sort of dream, in which she
was walking in the Zoological Gardens on a pouring wet day without an
umbrella. The animals seemed desperately unhappy because of the rain,
and were all growling gloomily. When she awoke, both the growling and
the rain went on just the same. The growling was the heavy regular
breathing of her sister Jane, who had a slight cold and was still
asleep. The rain fell in slow drops on to Anthea's face from the wet
corner of a bath-towel out of which her brother Robert was gently
squeezing the water, to wake her up, as he now explained
she said rather crossly; so he did, for he was not a
brutal brother, though very ingenious in apple-pie beds, booby-traps,
original methods of awakening sleeping relatives, and the other
little accomplishments which make home happy.

&lsqb;The rain fell in slow drops on to Anthea's face
Anthea began
said Jane, wakening suddenly and without warning
said Robert
said Anthea,
sitting up in bed
The voice of the eldest brother sounded from across the landing
it said
Robert replied
Cyril appeared in the doorway, partially clothed
said Anthea
Her voice died away before Cyril's contemptuous glance
he said
The other three dressed, with their mouths open. If all that dream about
the Sand-fairy was real, this real dressing seemed very like a dream,
the girls thought. Jane felt that Cyril was right, but Anthea was not
sure, till after they had seen Martha and heard her full and plain
reminders about their naughty conduct the day before. Then Anthea was
sure
said she
said Cyril
said Jane
said Robert in a tone of wonder
Cyril said
Jane suggested dreamily,
taking more marmalade
said Robert
said Cyril in
full agreement
said Jane
So they did.

Martha wore her Sunday dress of two shades of purple, so tight in the
chest that it made her stoop, and her blue hat with the pink
cornflowers and white ribbon. She had a yellow-lace collar with a green
bow. And the Lamb had indeed his very best cream-colored silk coat and
hat. It was a smart party that the carrier's cart picked up at the Cross
Roads. When its white tilt and red wheels had slowly vanished in a swirl
of chalk-dust
said Cyril, and off they went.

As they went they decided on the wish they would ask for. Although they
were all in a great hurry they did not try to climb down the sides of
the gravel-pit, but went round by the safe lower road, as if they had
been carts.

They had made a ring of stones round the place where the Sand-fairy had
disappeared, so they easily found the spot. The sun was burning and
bright, and the sky was deep blue -- without a cloud. The sand was very
hot to touch
Robert said as the boys
uncovered their spades from the sand-heap where they had buried them
and began to dig
said Cyril
Robert snapped
said Jane, laughing
said Robert, who was
now warm indeed
said Anthea quickly
said Robert, but not crossly
So they did, and presently uncovered the spider-shaped brown hairy body,
long arms and legs, bat's ears and snail's eyes of the Sand-fairy
himself. Everyone drew a deep breath of satisfaction, for now of course
it couldn't have been a dream.

The Psammead sat up and shook the sand out of its fur
said Anthea politely
said it
said Robert
he added reassuringly
said the Sand-fairy. (If you read this story aloud, please
pronounce "humph" exactly as it is spelt, for that is how he said it
Jane hurried to say, so as to get away from the subject of
disagreeableness
she added politely
said the Sand-fairy, yawning.

Cyril muttered something about
and the rest stood
silent. If they said
then good-bye to the other wishes they had
decided to ask for. If they said
it would be very rude, and they
had all been taught manners, and had learned a little too, which is not
at all the same thing. A sigh of relief broke from all lips when the
Sand-fairy said
said Cyril eagerly; while the
others looked guiltily at each other, and wished the Fairy would not
keep all on about good tempers, but give them one good scolding if it
wanted to, and then have done with it
said the Psammead, putting out his long snail's eyes so suddenly
that one of them nearly went into the round boy's eye of Robert
said Anthea in a whisper
said Robert.

The Fairy swelled himself out a bit, let his breath go, and said
said Robert slowly
said Jane
said the Fairy unexpectedly
it muttered to itself
said the Fairy in an off-hand manner
It made its skinny arms so long, and waved them so frighteningly, that
the children ran as hard as they could towards the road by which carts
used to come to the gravel-pits. Only Anthea had presence of mind enough
to shout a timid
as she ran.

On the road they turned and looked back, and they had to shut their
eyes, and open them very slowly, a little bit at a time, because the
sight was too dazzling for their eyes to be able to bear. It was
something like trying to look at the sun at high noon on Midsummer Day.
For the whole of the sand-pit was full, right up to the very top, with
new shining gold pieces, and all the little bank-martins' little front
doors were covered out of sight. Where the road for carts wound into the
gravel-pit the gold lay in heaps like stones lie by the roadside, and a
great bank of shining gold shelved down from where it lay flat and
smooth between the tall sides of the gravel-pit. And all the gleaming
heaps was minted gold. And on the sides and edges of these countless
coins the mid-day sun shone and sparkled, and glowed and gleamed till
the quarry looked like the mouth of a smelting furnace, or one of the
fairy halls that you see sometimes in the sky at sunset.

The children stood with their mouths open, and no one said a word.

At last Robert stooped and picked up one of the loose coins from the
edge of the heap by the cart-road, and looked at it. He looked on both
sides. Then he said in a low voice, quite different to his own
said Cyril. And now they all began to talk at once.
They all picked up the golden treasure by handfuls and let it run
through their fingers like water, and the chink it made as it fell was
wonderful music. At first they quite forgot to think of spending the
money, it was so nice to play with. Jane sat down between two heaps of
the gold, and Robert began to bury her, as you bury your father in sand
when you are at the seaside and he has gone to sleep on the beach with
his newspaper over his face. But Jane was not half buried before she
cried out
Robert said
and went on
cried Jane, and was taken out, very white, and
trembling a little
said she
Cyril said
asked Jane
Cyril sat down and began to fill his pockets
said he
They did. For when Cyril had filled his nine pockets and his
handkerchief and the space between himself and his shirt front with the
gold coins, he had to stand up. But he staggered, and had to sit down
again in a hurry
said Robert
And Cyril had to do so.

Then they set off to walk to the village. It was more than a mile, and
the road was very dusty indeed, and the sun seemed to get hotter and
hotter, and the gold in their pockets got heavier and heavier.

It was Jane who said
She took
out a handful or two of gold and hid it in the hollows of an old
hornbeam
she said
said Cyril
But they came on heavily and wearily. Before they reached the village,
more than one stump in the hedge concealed its little hoard of hidden
treasure. Yet they reached the village with about twelve hundred guineas
in their pockets. But in spite of this inside wealth they looked
quite ordinary outside, and no one would have thought they could have
more than a half-crown each at the outside. The haze of heat, the blue
of the wood smoke, made a sort of dim misty cloud over the red roofs of
the village. The four sat down heavily on the first bench to which they
came. It happened to be outside the Blue Boar Inn.

&lsqb;He staggered, and had to sit down again in a hurry&rsqb;

It was decided that Cyril should go into the Blue Boar and ask for
ginger-beer, because, as Anthea said
So he went. The others sat in the
sun and waited
said Robert
Jane said; and they all put their tongues out as far as
ever they could go, so that it quite stretched their throats, but it
only seemed to make them thirstier than ever, besides annoying everyone
who went by. So they took their tongues in again, just as Cyril came
back with ginger-beer
he said
The sponge-cakes were both soft and dry and the biscuits were dry too,
and yet soft, which biscuits ought not to be. But the ginger-beer made
up for everything
Anthea said
It was at The Chequers, and Anthea went in the back way to the yard,
because they all knew that little girls ought not to go into the bars of
beer-saloons. She came out, as she herself said
she remarked
said Cyril moodily
she retorted
It was a new sensation to be driven in a smart pony-trap along pretty
country roads; it was very pleasant too (which is not always the case
with new sensations), quite apart from the beautiful plans of spending
the money which each child made as they went along, silently of course
and quite to itself, for they felt it would never have done to let the
old innkeeper hear them talk in the affluent sort of way in which they
were thinking. The old man put them down by the bridge at their request
asked Cyril, as if he were only asking for the sake of something to say
said the old man promptly
said Cyril
And now the children began to see one of the laws of nature turn upside
down and stand on its head like an acrobat. Any grown-up person would
tell you that money is hard to get and easy to spend. But the fairy
money had been easy to get, and spending it was not only hard, it was
almost impossible. The trades-people of Rochester seemed to shrink, to a
trades-person, from the glittering fairy gold
they
called it, for the most part).

To begin with, Anthea, who had had the misfortune to sit on her hat
earlier in the day, wished to buy another. She chose a very beautiful
one, trimmed with pink roses and the blue breasts of peacocks. It was
marked in the window
she said
But when she took three of the spade guineas in her hand, which was by
this time rather dirty owing to her not having put on gloves before
going to the gravel-pit, the black-silk young lady in the shop looked
very hard at her, and went and whispered something to an older and
uglier lady, also in black silk, and then they gave her back the money
and said it was not current coin
said Anthea
said the lady
said Anthea, rejoining the
others in the street
So they chose a humble shop, and the girls bought cotton gloves, the
kind at a shilling, but when they offered a guinea the woman looked at
it through her spectacles and said she had no change; so the gloves had
to be paid for out of Cyril's money with which he meant to buy rabbits
and so had the green imitation crocodile-skin purse at nine-pence which
had been bought at the same time. They tried several more shops, the
kinds where you buy toys and perfume and silk handkerchiefs and books,
and fancy boxes of stationery, and photographs of objects of interest in
the vicinity. But nobody cared to change a guinea that day in Rochester,
and as they went from shop to shop they got dirtier and dirtier, and
their hair got more and more untidy, and Jane slipped and fell down on a
part of the road where a water cart had just gone by. Also they got very
hungry, but they found no one would give them anything to eat for their
guineas.

After trying two baker shops in vain, they became so hungry, perhaps
from the smell of the cake in the shops, as Cyril suggested, that they
formed a plan of campaign in whispers and carried it out in desperation.
They marched into a third baker shop,-- Beale was his name,-- and before
the people behind the counter could interfere each child had seized
three new penny buns, clapped the three together between its dirty
hands, and taken a big bite out of the triple sandwich. Then they stood
at bay, with the twelve buns in their hands and their mouths very full
indeed. The shocked baker's man bounded round the corner
said Cyril, speaking as distinctly as he could, and holding out
the guinea he got ready before entering the shops
Mr. Beale snatched the coin, bit it, and put it in his pocket.

&lsqb;Mr. Beale snatched the coin, bit it, and put it in his
pocket
he said, brief and stern like the man in the song
said Anthea, who had a saving mind
said the man
In the Gardens of the Castle the millionaires finished the buns, and
though the curranty softness of these were delicious, and acted like a
charm in raising the spirits of the party, yet even the stoutest heart
quailed at the thought of venturing to sound Mr. Billy Peasemarsh at the
Saracen's Head on the subject of a horse and carriage. The boys would
have given up the idea, but Jane was always a hopeful child, and Anthea
generally an obstinate one, and their earnestness prevailed.

The whole party, by this time indescribably dirty, therefore betook
itself to the Saracen's Head. The yard-method of attack having been
successful at The Chequers, was tried again here. Mr. Peasemarsh was in
the yard, and Robert opened the business in these terms
It had
been agreed that Robert should be spokesman, because in books it is
always gentlemen who buy horses, and not ladies, and Cyril had had his
go at the Blue Boar
said Mr. Peasemarsh. He was a long lean
man, with very blue eyes and a tight mouth and narrow lips
said Robert politely
inquired Mr. Billy Peasemarsh
said Robert
said Mr. Peasemarsh
said Robert
Mr. Peasemarsh put his hands in his pockets and laughed, and they did
not like the way he did it. Then he shouted
A stooping ostler appeared in a stable door
Willum's eyes followed his master's pointing thumb with contemptuous
interest
he said.

But Robert spoke, though both the girls were now pulling at his jacket
and begging him to
He spoke, and he was very angry; he
said
And before the others could stop him
he had pulled out two fat handfuls of shining guineas, and held them out
for Mr. Peasemarsh to look at. He did look. He snatched one up in his
finger and thumb. He bit it, and Jane expected him to say
But the others knew better.
Still it was a blow, even to the most desponding, when he said shortly
and Willum grinned and went to shut them
said Robert hastily
He had seen a
little side gate open, and was moving towards it as he spoke. But Billy
Peasemarsh put himself in the way
he said
Willum went. The children stood huddled together like frightened sheep,
and Mr. Peasemarsh spoke to them till the pleece arrived. He said many
things. Among other things he said
said Cyril boldly
said Jane heroically
said the man, softening slightly, which was
not at all what the boys expected when Jane began to call names.

Jane cast a silent glance of agony at the others
said truthful Jane
said the man
Jane said
said the man in a low voice
said Anthea
said Billy Peasemarsh
And now Willum came back, with a spiteful grin on his face, and at his
back a policeman, with whom Mr. Peasemarsh spoke long in a hoarse
earnest whisper
said the policeman at last
Speechless with rage and horror, the four children were driven along the
streets of Rochester. Tears of anger and shame blinded them, so that
when Robert ran right into a passer-by he did not recognise her till a
well-known voice said
And another voice, quite as well known,
said
They had run into Martha and the Baby!

&lsqb;They had run into Martha and the baby&rsqb;

Martha behaved admirably. She refused to believe a word of the
policeman's story, or of Mr. Peasemarsh's either, even when they made
Robert turn out his pockets in an archway and show the guineas
she said
And the children thought this very noble of Martha, even if rather
wicked, till they remembered how the Fairy had promised that the
servants should never notice any of the fairy gifts. So of course Martha
couldn't see the gold, and so was only speaking the truth, and that was
quite right, of course, but not extra noble.

It was getting dusk when they reached the police-station. The policeman
told his tale to an inspector, who sat in a large bare room with a thing
like a clumsy nursery-fender at one end to put prisoners in. Robert
wondered whether it was a cell or a dock
said the inspector
said the constable.

Cyril desperately plunged his hands in his pockets, stood still a
moment, and then began to laugh -- an odd sort of laugh that hurt, and
that felt much more like crying. His pockets were empty. So were the
pockets of the others. For of course at sunset all the fairy gold had
vanished away
said the inspector.

Cyril turned out his pockets, every one of the nine which enriched his
suit. And every pocket was empty
said the inspector
said the inspector, frowning
said Martha
He said
to the policeman and Mr. Peasemarsh
said the inspector crossly. But as
they left the police-station he said
to the policeman and
Mr. Peasemarsh, and he said it twenty times as crossly as he had spoken
to Martha.

       *       *       *       *       *

Martha was as good as her word. She took them home in a very grand
carriage, because the carrier's cart was gone, and, though she had stood
by them so nobly with the police, she was so angry with them as soon as
they were alone for
that none
of them dared to mention the old man with the pony-cart from the
village who was waiting for them in Rochester. And so, after one day of
boundless wealth, the children found themselves sent to bed in deep
disgrace, and only enriched by two pairs of cotton gloves, dirty inside
because of the state of the hands they had been put on to cover, an
imitation crocodile-skin purse, and twelve penny buns, long since
digested.

The thing that troubled them most was the fear that the old gentleman's
guinea might have disappeared at sunset with all the rest, so they went
down to the village next day to apologise for not meeting him in
Rochester, and to _see_. They found him very friendly. The guinea had
not disappeared, and he had bored a hole in it and hung it on his
watch-chain. As for the guinea the baker took, the children felt they
_could_ not care whether it had vanished or not, which was not perhaps
very honest, but on the other hand was not wholly unnatural. But
afterwards this preyed on Anthea's mind, and at last she secretly sent
twelve postage stamps by post to
Inside
she wrote
I hope the guinea did disappear, for
that baker was really not at all a nice man, and, besides, penny buns
are seven for sixpence in all really respectable shops
The morning after the children had been the possessors of boundless
wealth, and had been unable to buy anything really useful or enjoyable
with it, except two pairs of cotton gloves, twelve penny buns, an
imitation crocodile-skin purse, and a ride in a pony-cart, they awoke
without any of the enthusiastic happiness which they had felt on the
previous day when they remembered how they had had the luck to find a
Psammead, or Sand-fairy, and to receive its promise to grant them a new
wish every day. For now they had had two wishes, Beauty and Wealth, and
neither had exactly made them happy. But the happening of strange
things, even if they are not completely pleasant things, is more amusing
than those times when nothing happens but meals, and they are not always
completely pleasant, especially on the days when it is cold mutton or
hash.

There was no chance of talking things over before breakfast, because
everyone overslept itself, as it happened, and it needed a vigorous and
determined struggle to get dressed so as to be only ten minutes late for
breakfast. During this meal some efforts were made to deal with the
question of the Psammead in an impartial spirit, but it is very
difficult to discuss anything thoroughly and at the same time to attend
faithfully to your baby brother's breakfast needs. The Baby was
particularly lively that morning. He not only wriggled his body through
the bar of his high chair, and hung by his head, choking and purple, but
he seized a tablespoon with desperate suddenness, hit Cyril heavily on
the head with it, and then cried because it was taken away from him. He
put his fat fist in his bread-and-milk, and demanded
which was
only allowed for tea. He sang, he put his feet on the table -- he
clamoured to
The conversation was something like this
Milk removed to a safe distance
Then Cyril tried
And in a flash of glass and pink baby-paws, the bowl of golden
carp in the middle of the table rolled on its side and poured a flood of
mixed water and gold-fish into the Baby's lap and into the laps of the
others.

Everyone was almost as much upset as the gold-fish; the Lamb only
remaining calm. When the pool on the floor had been mopped up, and the
leaping, gasping gold-fish had been collected and put back in the water,
the Baby was taken away to be entirely re-dressed by Martha, and most of
the others had to change completely. The pinafores and jackets that had
been bathed in gold-fish-and-water were hung out to dry, and then it
turned out that Jane must either mend the dress she had torn the day
before or appear all day in her best petticoat. It was white and soft
and frilly, and trimmed with lace, and very, very pretty, quite as
pretty as a frock, if not more so. Only it was _not_ a frock, and
Martha's word was law. She wouldn't let Jane wear her best frock, and
she refused to listen for a moment to Robert's suggestion that Jane
should wear her best petticoat and call it a dress
she said. And when people say that, it's no use
anyone's saying anything. You'll find this out for yourselves some day.

So there was nothing for it but for Jane to mend her frock. The hole had
been torn the day before when she happened to tumble down in the High
Street of Rochester, just where a water-cart had passed on its silvery
way. She had grazed her knee, and her stocking was much more than
grazed, and her dress was cut by the same stone which had attended to
the knee and the stocking. Of course the others were not such sneaks as
to abandon a comrade in misfortune, so they all sat on the grass-plot
round the sun-dial, and Jane darned away for dear life. The Lamb was
still in the hands of Martha having its clothes changed, so conversation
was possible.

Anthea and Robert timidly tried to conceal their inmost thought, which
was that the Psammead was not to be trusted; but Cyril said
So then Robert said, as in honour bound
said Jane, biting off a needleful of thread as she
had always been strictly forbidden to do. (Perhaps you don't know that
if you bite off ends of cotton and swallow them they wind tight round
your heart and kill you? My nurse told me this, and she told me also
about the earth going round the sun. Now what is one to believe -- what
with nurses and science
said Robert
You will remember that the happily-situated house where these children
were spending their holidays lay between a chalk-quarry and a
gravel-pit.)

Cyril and Jane were more hopeful -- they generally were
Cyril said
Jane dropped her work and said
Jane darned away again like mad, for time was indeed getting on, and
everyone began to talk at once. If you had been there you could not
possibly have made head or tail of the talk, but these children were
used to talking
as soldiers march, and each of them could
say what it had to say quite comfortably, and listen to the agreeable
sound of its own voice, and at the same time have three-quarters of two
sharp ears to spare for listening to what the others said. That is an
easy example in multiplication of vulgar fractions, but, as I daresay
you can't do even that, I won't ask you to tell me whether 3/4 x 2 =
1-1/2, but I will ask you to believe me that this was the amount of ear
each child was able to lend to the others. Lending ears was common in
Roman times, as we learn from Shakespeare; but I fear I am getting too
instructive.

When the frock was darned, the start for the gravel-pit was delayed by
Martha's insisting on everybody's washing its hands -- which was nonsense,
because nobody had been doing anything at all, except Jane, and how can
you get dirty doing nothing? That is a difficult question, and I cannot
answer it on paper. In real life I could very soon show you -- or you me,
which is much more likely.

During the conversation in which the six ears were lent (there were four
children, so _that_ sum comes right), it had been decided that fifty
pounds in two-shilling pieces was the right wish to have. And the lucky
children, who could have anything in the wide world by just wishing for
it, hurriedly started for the gravel-pit to express their wishes to the
Psammead. Martha caught them at the gate, and insisted on their taking
the Baby with them.

&lsqb;The lucky children ... hurriedly started for the gravel
pit
said Martha
said Robert in gloom
said Martha
With this and a kiss, she plumped the Lamb into Anthea's arms, and went
back to make new pinafores on the sewing-machine. She was a rapid
performer on this instrument.

The Lamb laughed with pleasure, and said
and rode on
Robert's back with yells of joy, and tried to feed Jane with stones,
and altogether made himself so agreeable that nobody could long be sorry
that he was of the party.

The enthusiastic Jane even suggested that they should devote a week's
wishes to assuring the Baby's future, by asking such gifts for him as
the good fairies give to Infant Princes in proper fairy-tales, but
Anthea soberly reminded her that as the Sand-fairy's wishes only lasted
till sunset they could not ensure any benefit to the Baby's later years;
and Jane owned that it would be better to wish for fifty pounds in
two-shilling pieces, and buy the Lamb a three-pound fifteen
rocking-horse, like those in the big stores, with a part of the money.

It was settled that, as soon as they had wished for the money and got
it, they would get Mr. Crispin to drive them into Rochester again,
taking Martha with them if they could not get out of taking her. And
they would make a list of things they really wanted before they started.
Full of high hopes and excellent resolutions, they went round the safe
slow cart-road to the gravel-pits, and as they went in between the
mounds of gravel a sudden thought came to them, and would have turned
their ruddy cheeks pale if they had been children in a book. Being real
live children, it only made them stop and look at each other with rather
blank and silly expressions. For now they remembered that yesterday,
when they had asked the Psammead for boundless wealth, and it was
getting ready to fill the quarry with the minted gold of bright
guineas -- millions of them -- it had told the children to run along outside
the quarry for fear they should be buried alive in the heavy splendid
treasure. And they had run. And so it happened that they had not had
time to mark the spot where the Psammead was, with a ring of stones, as
before. And it was this thought that put such silly expressions on their
faces
said the hopeful Jane
But this, though easily said, was hard in the doing. They looked and
they looked, and, though they found their seaside spades, nowhere could
they find the Sand-fairy.

At last they had to sit down and rest -- not at all because they were
weary or disheartened, of course, but because the Lamb insisted on being
put down, and you cannot look very carefully after anything you may have
happened to lose in the sand if you have an active baby to look after at
the same time. Get someone to drop your best knife in the sand next time
you go to the seashore and then take your baby brother with you when you
go to look for it, and you will see that I am right.

The Lamb, as Martha had said, was feeling the benefit of the country
air, and he was as frisky as a sandhopper. The elder ones longed to go
on talking about the new wishes they would have when (or if) they found
the Psammead again. But the Lamb wished to enjoy himself.

He watched his opportunity and threw a handful of sand into Anthea's
face, and then suddenly burrowed his own head in the sand and waved his
fat legs in the air. Then of course the sand got into his eyes, as it
had into Anthea's, and he howled.

The thoughtful Robert had brought one solid brown bottle of ginger-beer
with him, relying on a thirst that had never yet failed him. This had to
be uncorked hurriedly -- it was the only wet thing within reach, and it
was necessary to wash the sand out of the Lamb's eyes somehow. Of course
the ginger hurt horribly, and he howled more than ever. And, amid his
anguish of kicking, the bottle was upset and the beautiful ginger-beer
frothed out into the sand and was lost for ever.

It was then that Robert, usually a very patient brother, so far forgot
himself as to say
The Lamb stopped howling now, because Jane had suddenly remembered that
there is only one safe way of taking things out of little children's
eyes, and that is with your own soft wet tongue. It is quite easy if you
love the Baby as much as you ought to do.

Then there was a little silence. Robert was not proud of himself for
having been so cross, and the others were not proud of him either. You
often notice that sort of silence when someone has said something it
ought not to -- and everyone else holds its tongue and waits for the one
who oughtn't to have said it is sorry.

The silence was broken by a sigh -- a breath suddenly let out. The
children's heads turned as if there had been a string tied to each nose,
and somebody had pulled all the strings at once.

And everyone saw the Sand-fairy sitting quite close to them, with the
expression which it used as a smile on its hairy face
it said
said Robert sulkily, because he knew he had been
behaving rather like a pig
said the Psammead
Jane made haste to say
the Sand-fairy said shortly
the Psammead said
All the children were quite crushed by this terrible tale. They looked
at the Psammead in horror. Suddenly the Lamb perceived that something
brown and furry was near him
he said, and made a grab
he said, and made a grab
Anthea was beginning, when the Sand-fairy leaped
back
it said
Its fur stood on end with horror -- and indeed a good deal of the
ginger-beer had been spilt on the blue smock of the Lamb.

The Psammead dug with its hands and feet, and vanished in an instant and
a whirl of sand.

The children marked the spot with a ring of stones
said Robert
The others were noble. No one reproached Robert at all. Cyril picked up
the Lamb, who was now quite himself again, and off they went by the safe
cart-road.

The cart-road from the gravel-pits joins the road almost directly.

At the gate into the road the party stopped to shift the Lamb from
Cyril's back to Robert's. And as they paused a very smart open carriage
came in sight, with a coachman and a groom on the box, and inside the
carriage a lady -- very grand indeed, with a dress all white lace and
red ribbons and a parasol all red and white -- and a white fluffy dog on
her lap with a red ribbon round its neck. She looked at the children,
and particularly at the Baby, and she smiled at him. The children were
used to this, for the Lamb was, as all the servants said, a
So they waved their hands politely to the lady and expected her
to drive on. But she did not. Instead she made the coachman stop. And
she beckoned to Cyril, and when he went up to the carriage she said
said Anthea shortly
She opened the carriage door and jumped out. She had the wonderfullest
red high-heeled shoes with silver buckles
she said. And she took the Lamb and held him very awkwardly, as if she
was not used to babies.

Then suddenly she jumped into the carriage with the Lamb in her arms and
slammed the door, and said
The Lamb roared, the little white dog barked, and the coachman
hesitated
cried the lady; and the coachman did, for, as he
said afterwards, it was as much as his place was worth not to.

The four children looked at each other, and then with one accord they
rushed after the carriage and held on behind. Down the dusty road went
the smart carriage, and after it, at double-quick time, ran the
twinkling legs of the Lamb's brothers and sisters.

&lsqb;At double-quick time, ran the twinkling legs of the
Lamb's brothers and sisters&rsqb;

The Lamb howled louder and louder, but presently his howls changed by
slow degrees to hiccupy gurgles, and then all was still, and they knew
he had gone to sleep.

The carriage went on, and the eight feet that twinkled through the
dust were growing quite stiff and tired before the carriage stopped at
the lodge of a grand park. The children crouched down behind the
carriage, and the lady got out. She looked at the Baby as it lay on the
carriage seat, and hesitated
she said, and went into the lodge to
talk to the woman there about a setting of eggs that had not turned out
well.

The coachman and footman sprang from the box and bent over the sleeping
Lamb
said the coachman
said the groom sourly
The coachman pretended not to hear. He said
The children, crouched in the white dust under the carriage, exchanged
uncomfortable glances
the coachman went on firmly
said the footman
the coachman rejoined
said the footman sneeringly
The coachman hit the footman in the chin -- the footman hit the coachman
in the waist-coat -- the next minute the two were fighting here and there,
in and out, up and down, and all over everywhere, and the little dog
jumped on the box of the carriage and began barking like mad.

&lsqb;The next minute the two were fighting&rsqb;

Cyril, still crouching in the dust, waddled on bent legs to the side of
the carriage farthest from the battlefield. He unfastened the door of
the carriage -- the two men were far too much occupied with their quarrel
to notice anything -- took the Lamb in his arms, and, still stooping,
carried the sleeping baby a dozen yards along the road to where a stile
led into a wood. The others followed, and there among the hazels and
young oaks and sweet chestnuts, covered by high strong-scented
brake-fern, they all lay hidden till the angry voices of the men were
hushed at the angry voice of the red-and-white lady, and, after a long
and anxious search, the carriage at last drove away
said Cyril, drawing a deep breath as the sound of wheels
at last died away
So they peeped out, and finding on the right hand only lonely white
road, and nothing but lonely white road on the left, they took courage,
and the road, Anthea carrying the sleeping Lamb.

Adventures dogged their footsteps. A boy with a bundle of faggots on his
back dropped his bundle by the roadside and asked to look at the Baby,
and then offered to carry him; but Anthea was not to be caught that way
twice. They all walked on, but the boy followed, and Cyril and Robert
couldn't make him go away till they had more than once invited him to
smell their fists. Afterwards a little girl in a blue-and-white checked
pinafore actually followed them for a quarter of a mile crying for
and then she was only got rid of by threats of tying her
to a tree in the wood with all their pocket handkerchiefs
said Cyril
severely. Then she went off crying. It presently seemed wise, to the
brothers and sisters of the Baby who was wanted by everyone, to hide in
the hedge whenever they saw anyone coming, and thus they managed to
prevent the Lamb from arousing the inconvenient affection of a milkman,
a stone-breaker, and a man who drove a cart with a paraffin barrel at
the back of it. They were nearly home when the worst thing of all
happened. Turning a corner suddenly they came upon two vans, a tent, and
a company of gipsies encamped by the side of the road. The vans were
hung all round with wicker chairs and cradles, and flower-stands and
feather brushes. A lot of ragged children were industriously making
dust-pies in the road, two men lay on the grass smoking, and three women
were doing the family washing in an old red watering-can with the top
broken off.

In a moment every gipsy, men, women, and children, surrounded Anthea and
the Baby
said one of the gipsy women, who had a
mahogany-coloured face and dust-coloured hair
said Anthea
said the other woman, whose face was also of the
hue of mahogany, and her hair jet-black, in greasy curls
said Anthea bravely, but her heart beat so that it nearly choked
her.

Then one of the men pushed forward
he cried
He snatched the Baby from Anthea, who turned scarlet and burst into
tears of pure rage.

&lsqb;He snatched the baby from Anthea&rsqb;

The others were standing quite still; this was much the most terrible
thing that had ever happened to them. Even being taken up by the police
in Rochester was nothing to this. Cyril was quite white, and his hands
trembled a little, but he made a sign to the others to shut up. He was
silent a minute, thinking hard. Then he said
cried Anthea,-- and Cyril glared at her
said the women, trying to get the Baby out of
the man's arms. The Lamb howled loudly
shrieked Anthea; and Cyril, in a savage undertone, bade
her
he whispered
he went on
said the man who was holding the Baby, trying to
loosen the red neckerchief which the Lamb had caught hold of and drawn
round his mahogany throat so tight that he could hardly breathe. The
gipsies whispered together, and Cyril took the chance to whisper too. He
said
And then his brothers and sisters were filled with wonder and admiration
at his having been so clever as to remember this
said Jane
said Robert suddenly. The others looked at him with
scorn
Jane whispered hotly. Robert carefully winked at her and
went on
he said to the
gipsy
His brothers and sisters felt themselves very noble and despised him.
They did not know his thoughtful secret intention. But the gipsies did
in a minute
they said
they asked
said the light-haired
gipsy-woman, not unkindly
So the Lamb was handed back; but the gipsies crowded so closely that he
could not possibly stop howling. Then the man with the red handkerchief
said
So the gipsies, very much against their will, went off to
their work, and the children and the Lamb were left sitting on the
grass
Jane whispered
Anthea said
said Robert
The others thought so too then. But when the dinner was ready -- it turned
out to be supper, and happened between four and five -- they were all glad
enough to take what they could get. It was boiled rabbit, with onions,
and some bird rather like a chicken, but stringier about its legs and
with a stronger taste. The Lamb had bread soaked in hot water and brown
sugar sprinkled on the top. He liked this very much, and consented to
let the two gipsy women feed him with it, as he sat on Anthea's lap. All
that long hot afternoon Robert and Cyril and Anthea and Jane had to keep
the Lamb amused and happy, while the gipsies looked eagerly on. By the
time the shadows grew long and black across the meadows he had really
"taken to" the woman with the light hair, and even consented to kiss
his hand to the children, and to stand up and bow, with his hand on his
chest
to the two men. The whole gipsy camp was in
raptures with him, and his brothers and sisters could not help taking
some pleasure in showing off his accomplishments to an audience so
interested and enthusiastic. But they longed for sunset.

&lsqb;He consented to let the two gypsy women feed him
Cyril whispered
The shadows got longer and longer, and at last there were no separate
shadows any more, but one soft glowing shadow over everything; for the
sun was out of sight -- behind the hill -- but he had not really set yet.
The people who make the laws about lighting bicycle lamps are the people
who decide when the sun sets; she has to do it too, to the minute, or
they would know the reason why!

But the gipsies were getting impatient
the red-handkerchief man said
The women and children came crowding round the Lamb, arms were held out,
fingers snapped invitingly, friendly faces beaming with admiring smiles;
but all failed to tempt the loyal Lamb. He clung with arms and legs to
Jane, who happened to be holding him, and uttered the gloomiest roar of
the whole day
the woman said
And still the sun would not set
whispered Cyril
Anthea began, talking very
fast
said he -- he had stopped roaring to listen.

The woman laughed
she said
replied the Lamb at once
Anthea went on
said the black ringleted woman
said one of the men
said Esther's husband
said the husband of 'Melia.

Zillah, the girl, said
Everyone was getting very angry. The dark gipsy faces were frowning and
anxious-looking. Suddenly a change swept over them, as if some invisible
sponge had wiped away these cross and anxious expressions, and left only
a blank.

The children saw that the sun really _had_ set. But they were afraid to
move. And the gipsies were feeling so muddled because of the invisible
sponge that had washed all the feelings of the last few hours out of
their hearts, that they could not say a word.

The children hardly dared to breathe. Suppose the gipsies, when they
recovered speech, should be furious to think how silly they had been all
day?

It was an awkward moment. Suddenly Anthea, greatly daring, held out the
Lamb to the red-handkerchief man
she said.

The man drew back
he said
hoarsely
said the other man
said Esther
said Amelia. She was the only one who
now looked affectionately at the whimpering Lamb.

Zillah said
said Anthea
said Pharaoh heartily
And with great haste all the gipsies began to be busy about their tents
for the night. All but Amelia. She went with the children as far as the
bend in the road -- and there she said
She leaned towards the Lamb; and he, looking in her eyes, unexpectedly
put up a grubby soft paw and stroked her face
said the Lamb. And he let the gipsy woman kiss him, and,
what is more, he kissed her brown cheek in return -- a very nice kiss, as
all his kisses are, and not a wet one like some babies give. The gipsy
woman moved her finger about on his forehead as if she had been writing
something there, and the same with his chest and his hands and his
feet; then she said
Then she
said something in a strange language no one could understand, and
suddenly added
And she turned and went back to her home -- the tent by the
grassy roadside.

The children looked after her till she was out of sight. Then Robert
said
said Cyril
said Anthea
said Jane.

And they went home -- very late for tea and unspeakably late for dinner.
Martha scolded, of course. But the Lamb was safe
said
Robert, later
said all the others together
Cyril explained
Robert bore
this much with a strange calm
said he
And that, my dear children, is the moral of this chapter. I did not mean
it to have a moral, but morals are nasty forward beings, and will keep
putting in their oars where they are not wanted. And since the moral has
crept in, quite against my wishes, you might as well think of it next
time you feel piggy yourself and want to get rid of any of your brothers
and sisters. I hope this doesn't often happen, but I daresay it has
happened sometimes, even to you
The next day was very wet -- too wet to go out, and far too wet to think
of disturbing a Sand-fairy so sensitive to water that he still, after
thousands of years, felt the pain of once having his left whisker
wetted. It was a long day, and it was not till the afternoon that all
the children suddenly decided to write letters to their mother. It was
Robert who had the misfortune to upset the ink well -- an unusually deep
and full one -- straight into that part of Anthea's desk where she had
long pretended that an arrangement of mucilage and cardboard painted
with Indian ink was a secret drawer. It was not exactly Robert's fault;
it was only his misfortune that he chanced to be lifting the ink across
the desk just at the moment when Anthea had got it open, and that that
same moment should have been the one chosen by the Lamb to get under
the table and break his squeaking bird. There was a sharp convenient
wire inside the bird, and of course the Lamb ran the wire into Robert's
leg at once; and so, without anyone's meaning to do it the secret drawer
was flooded with ink. At the same time a stream was poured over Anthea's
half-finished letter.

So that her letter was something like this
Then came a flood of ink, and at the bottom these words in pencil
ANTHEA."

Robert's letter had not even been begun. He had been drawing a ship on
the blotting paper while he was trying to think of what to say. And of
course after the ink was upset he had to help Anthea to clean out her
desk, and he promised to make her another secret drawer, better than
the other. And she said
So it was post-time and
his letter wasn't done. And the secret drawer wasn't done either.

Cyril wrote a long letter, very fast, and then went to set a trap for
slugs that he had read about in the _Home-made Gardener_, and when it
was post-time the letter could not be found, and it was never found.
Perhaps the slugs ate it.

Jane's letter was the only one that went. She meant to tell her mother
all about the Psammead,-- in fact they had all meant to do this,-- but she
spent so long thinking how to spell the word that there was no time to
tell the story properly, and it is useless to tell a story unless you
_do_ tell it properly, so she had to be contented with this
Half an hour went by before Jane felt quite sure that they could none of
them spell Psammead. And they could not find it in the dictionary
either, though they looked. Then Jane hastily finished her letter
Then the postman was heard blowing his horn, and Robert rushed out in
the rain to stop his cart and give him the letters. And that was how it
happened that, though all the children meant to tell their mother about
the Sand-fairy, somehow or other she never got to know. There were other
reasons why she never got to know, but these come later.

The next day Uncle Richard came and took them all to Maidstone in a
wagonette -- all except the Lamb. Uncle Richard was the very best kind of
uncle. He bought them toys at Maidstone. He took them into a shop and
let them all choose exactly what they wanted, without any restrictions
about price, and no nonsense about things being instructive. It is very
wise to let children choose exactly what they like, because they are
very foolish and inexperienced, and sometimes they will choose a really
instructive thing without meaning to do so. This happened to Robert, who
chose, at the last moment, and in a great hurry, a box with pictures on
it of winged bulls with men's heads and winged men with eagles' heads.
He thought there would be animals inside, the same as on the box. When
he got it home it was a Sunday puzzle about ancient Nineveh! The others
chose in haste, and were happy at leisure. Cyril had a model engine, and
the girls had two dolls, as well as a china tea-set with forget-me-nots
on it, to be
The boys' "between them" was bow and arrow.

Then Uncle Richard took them on the beautiful Medway in a boat, and then
they all had tea at a beautiful confectioner's and when they reached
home it was far too late to have any wishes that day.

They did not tell Uncle Richard anything about the Psammead. I do not
know why. And they do not know why. But I daresay you can guess.

The day after Uncle Richard had behaved so handsomely was a very hot day
indeed. The people who decide what the weather is to be, and put its
orders down for it in the newspapers every morning, said afterwards that
it was the hottest day there had been for years. They had ordered it to
be
and warmer it certainly was. In fact it was
so busy being warmer that it had no time to attend to the order about
showers, so there weren't any.

Have you ever been up at five o'clock on a fine summer morning? It is
very beautiful. The sunlight is pinky and yellowy, and all the grass and
trees are covered with dew-diamonds. And all the shadows go the opposite
way to the way they do in the evening, which is very interesting and
makes you feel as though you were in a new other world.

Anthea woke at five. She had made herself wake, and I must tell you how
it is done, even if it keeps you waiting for the story to go on.

You get into bed at night, and lie down quite flat on your little back,
with your hands straight down by your sides. Then you say
or six, or seven, or eight, or nine, or whatever the time
is that you want), and as you say it you push your chin down on your
chest and then whack your head back on the pillow. And you do this as
many times as there are ones in the time you want to wake up at. (It is
quite an easy sum.) Of course everything depends on your really wanting
to get up at five (or six, or seven, or eight, or nine); if you don't
really want to, it's all of no use. But if you do -- well, try it and see.
Of course in this, as in doing Latin proses or getting into mischief,
practice makes perfect.

Anthea was quite perfect.

At the very moment when she opened her eyes she heard the black-and-gold
clock down in the dining-room strike eleven. So she knew it was three
minutes to five. The black-and-gold clock always struck wrong, but it
was all right when you knew what it meant. It was like a person talking
a foreign language. If you know the language it is just as easy to
understand as English. And Anthea knew the clock language. She was very
sleepy, but she jumped out of bed and put her face and hands into a
basin of cold water. This is a fairy charm that prevents your wanting to
get back into bed again. Then she dressed, and folded up her night
dress. She did not tumble it together by the sleeves, but folded it by
the seams from the hem, and that will show you the kind of
well-brought-up little girl she was.

Then she took her shoes in her hand and crept softly down the stairs.
She opened the dining-room window and climbed out. It would have been
just as easy to go out by the door, but the window was more romantic,
and less likely to be noticed by Martha
she said to herself
Her heart was beating very fast, for she was carrying out a plan quite
her own. She could not be sure that it was a good plan, but she was
quite sure that it would not be any better if she were to tell the
others about it. And she had a feeling that, right or wrong, she would
rather go through with it alone. She put on her shoes under the iron
verandah, on the red-and-yellow shining tiles, and then she ran straight
to the sand-pit, and found the Psammead's place, and dug it out; it was
very cross indeed
it said, fluffing up its fur as pigeons do their
feathers at Christmas time
said Anthea gently, and she took off her white pinafore
and covered the Sand-fairy up with it, all but its head, its bat's ears,
and its eyes that were like a snail's eyes
it said
she said
said Anthea
said the Psammead in a warning voice, and it began to blow
itself out
it said indulgently, but it shivered
asked Anthea kindly
Anthea had never expected that it would, but it did
it said
It crept on to
her lap and snuggled down, and she put her arms round it with a rather
frightened gentleness
it said
said Anthea
said the Sand-fairy
Anthea went on
Anthea had meant to say that -- and she had not wanted to say it before
the others. It's one thing to say you're silly, and quite another to
say that other people are
said the Sand-fairy sleepily
it said
it said
said Anthea
said the creature
asked Anthea, who had learned no
foreign language at school except French
the Psammead went on
It jumped off her lap -- dug frantically, and vanished.

Anthea was late for breakfast. It was Robert who quietly poured a
spoonful of molasses down the Lamb's frock, so that he had to be taken
away and washed thoroughly directly after breakfast. And it was of
course a very naughty thing to do; yet it served two purposes -- it
delighted the Lamb, who loved above all things to be completely sticky,
and it engaged Martha's attention so that the others could slip away to
the sand-pit without the Lamb.

They did it, and in the lane Anthea, breathless from the hurry of that
slipping, panted out
asked Robert cautiously
said Anthea apologetically
There was a silence. The others rather wanted to find fault, but it was
hard, because the word "wings" raised a flutter of joyous excitement in
every breast
said Cyril generously; and Robert added
Jane said
They found the Sand-fairy easily. Anthea said
The Sand-fairy blew himself out, and next moment each child felt a funny
feeling, half heaviness and half lightness, on its shoulders. The
Psammead put its head on one side and turned its snail eyes from one
side to the other.

&lsqb;The Sand-fairy blew himself out
it said dreamily
Robert almost blushed.

The wings were very big, and more beautiful than you can possibly
imagine -- for they were soft and smooth, and every feather lay neatly in
its place. And the feathers were of the most lovely mixed changing
colors, like the rainbow, or iridescent glass, or the beautiful scum
that sometimes floats on water that is not at all nice to drink
Jane said, standing anxiously first on one
foot and then on the other
said Cyril
asked Anthea with interest; but no one answered, for
Robert had spread his wings and jumped up, and now he was slowly rising
in the air. He looked very awkward in his knickerbocker suit -- his boots
in particular hung helplessly, and seemed much larger than when he was
standing in them. But the others cared but little how he looked,-- or how
they looked, for that matter. For now they all spread out their wings
and rose in the air. Of course you all know what flying feels like,
because everyone has dreamed about flying, and is seems so beautifully
easy -- only, you can never remember how you did it; and as a rule you
have to do it without wings, in your dreams, which is more clever and
uncommon, but not so easy to remember the rule for. Now the four
children rose flapping from the ground, and you can't think how good the
air felt as it ran against their faces. Their wings were tremendously
wide when they were spread out, and they had to fly quite a long way
apart so as not to get in each other's way. But little things like this
are easily learned.

All the words in the English Dictionary, and in the Greek Lexicon as
well, are, I find, of no use at all to tell you exactly what it feels
like to be flying, so I will not try. But I will say that to look _down_
on the fields and woods instead of _along_ at them, is something like
looking at a beautiful live map, where, instead of silly colors on
paper, you have real moving sunny woods and green fields laid out one
after the other. As Cyril said, and I can't think where he got hold of
such a strange expression
It was most
wonderful and more like real magic than any wish the children had had
yet. They flapped and flew and sailed on their great rainbow wings,
between green earth and blue sky; and they flew over Rochester and then
swerved round towards Maidstone, and presently they all began to feel
extremely hungry. Curiously enough, this happened when they were flying
rather low, and just as they were crossing an orchard where some early
plums shone red and ripe.

&lsqb;They flew over Rochester&rsqb;

They paused on their wings. I cannot explain to you how this is done,
but it is something like treading water when you are swimming, and hawks
do it extremely well
said Cyril, though no one had spoken
said Jane briskly
It was not so easy to perch on a plum-tree as you might think, because
the rainbow wings were so _very_ large; but somehow they all managed to
do it, and the plums were certainly very sweet and juicy.

Fortunately, it was not till they had all had quite as many plums as
were good for them that they saw a stout man, who looked exactly as
though he owned the plum-trees, come hurrying through the orchard gate
with a thick stick, and with one accord they disentangled their wings
from the plum-laden branches and began to fly.

The man stopped short, with his mouth open. For he had seen the boughs
of his trees moving and twitching, and he had said to himself
And he had come out at once, for the lads
of the village had taught him in past seasons that plums want looking
after. But when he saw the rainbow wings flutter up out of the
plum-tree he felt that he must have gone quite mad, and he did not like
the feeling at all. And when Anthea looked down and saw his mouth go
slowly open, and stay so, and his face become green and mauve in
patches, she called out
and felt hastily in her pocket for a
threepenny-bit with a hole in it, which she had meant to hang on a
ribbon round her neck, for luck. She hovered round the unfortunate
plum-owner, and said
She swooped down toward the terror-stricken grower of plums, and slipped
the coin into the pocket of his jacket, and in a few flaps she had
rejoined the others.

The farmer sat down on the grass, suddenly and heavily.

&lsqb;The farmer sat down on the grass suddenly and heavily
he said
he had pulled it out and bitten
it
He got up slowly and heavily, and went indoors, and he was so nice to
his wife that day that she felt quite happy, and said to herself
and smartened herself up and put a
blue ribbon bow at the place where her collar fastened on, and looked so
pretty that he was kinder than ever. So perhaps the winged children
really did do one good thing that day. If so, it was the only one; for
really there is nothing like wings for getting you into trouble. But, on
the other hand, if you are in trouble, there is nothing like wings for
getting you out of it.

This was the case in the matter of the fierce dog who sprang out at them
when they had folded up their wings as small as possible and were going
up to a farm door to ask for a crust of bread and cheese, for in
spite of the plums they were soon just as hungry as ever again.

Now there is no doubt whatever that, if the four had been ordinary
wingless children, that black and fierce dog would have had a good bite
out of the brown-stockinged leg of Robert, who was the nearest. But at
its first growl there was a flutter of wings, and the dog was left to
strain at his chain and stand on his hind-legs as if he were trying to
fly too.

They tried several other farms, but at those where there were no dogs
the people were far too frightened to do anything but scream; and at
last, when it was nearly four o'clock, and their wings were getting
miserably stiff and tired, they alighted on a church-tower and held a
council of war
said
Robert with desperate decision
said
Cyril
suggested Anthea
said Jane
said Cyril firmly
repeated Robert hungrily; and the others looked vaguely round
the bare leads of the church-tower, and murmured
said Cyril impressively
said Jane
said Cyril modestly
said Anthea
said Cyril
Anthea was persuasive, and very nearly in tears,
because it is most trying to feel enormously hungry and unspeakably
sinful at one and the same time
was the cautious reply.

Everyone now turned out its pockets on the lead roof of the tower, where
visitors for the last hundred and fifty years had cut their own and
their sweethearts' initials with penknives in the soft lead. There was
five-and-seven-pence halfpenny altogether, and even the upright Anthea
admitted that that was too much to pay for four people's dinners. Robert
said he thought eighteenpence.

&lsqb;Every one now turned out his pockets&rsqb;

And half-a-crown was finally agreed to be
So Anthea wrote on the back of her last term's report, which happened to
be in her pocket, and from which she first tore her own name and that of
the school, the following letter
said the others with one accord. And Anthea hastily
added
The half-crown was wrapped in this letter, and all the children felt
that when the clergyman had read it he would understand everything, as
well as anyone could who had not even seen the wings
said Cyril
I cannot pretend that stealing is right. I can only say that on this
occasion it did not look like stealing to the hungry four, but appeared
in the light of a fair and reasonable business transaction. They had
never happened to learn that a tongue,-- hardly cut into,-- a chicken and
a half, a loaf of bread, and a syphon of soda-water cannot be bought in
the stores for half-a-crown. These were the necessaries of life, which
Cyril handed out of the larder window when, quite unobserved and without
hindrance or adventure, he had led the others to that happy spot. He
felt that to refrain from jam, apple pie, cake, and mixed candied peel,
was a really heroic act -- and I agree with him. He was also proud of not
taking the custard pudding,-- and there I think he was wrong,-- because if
he had taken it there would have been a difficulty about returning the
dish; no one, however starving, has a right to steal china pie-dishes
with little pink flowers on them. The soda-water syphon was different.
They could not do without something to drink, and as the maker's name
was on it they felt sure it would be returned to him wherever they might
leave it. If they had time they would take it back themselves. The
man appeared to live in Rochester, which would not be much out of their
way home.

&lsqb;These were the necessaries of life&rsqb;

Everything was carried up to the top of the tower, and laid down on a
sheet of kitchen paper which Cyril had found on the top shelf of the
larder. As he unfolded it, Anthea said
said he
said Cyril, with a
scientific air
I do not wish to describe the picnic party on the top of the tower. You
can imagine well enough what it is like to carve a chicken and a tongue
with a knife that has only one blade and that snapped off short about
half-way down. But it was done. Eating with your fingers is greasy and
difficult -- and paper dishes soon get to look very spotty and horrid. But
one thing you _can't_ imagine, and that is how soda-water behaves when
you try to drink it straight out of a syphon -- especially a quite full
one. But if imagination will not help you, experience will, and you can
easily try it for yourself if you can get a grown-up to give you the
syphon. If you want to have a really thorough experience, put the tube
in your mouth and press the handle very suddenly and very hard. You had
better do it when you are alone -- and out of doors is best for this
experiment.

However you eat them, tongue and chicken and new bread are very good
things, and no one minds being sprinkled a little with soda-water on a
really fine hot day. So that everyone enjoyed the dinner very much
indeed, and everyone ate as much as it possibly could: first, because it
was extremely hungry; and secondly, because, as I said, tongue and
chicken and new bread are very nice.

Now, I daresay you will have noticed that if you have to wait for your
dinner till long after the proper time, and then eat a great deal more
dinner than usual, and sit in the hot sun on the top of a
church-tower -- or even anywhere else -- you become soon and strangely
sleepy. Now Anthea and Jane and Cyril and Robert were very like you in
many ways, and when they had eaten all they could, and drunk all there
was, they became sleepy, strangely and soon -- especially Anthea, because
she had gotten up so early.

&lsqb;The children were fast asleep&rsqb;

One by one they left off talking and leaned back, and before it was a
quarter of an hour after dinner they had all curled round and tucked
themselves up under their large soft warm wings and were fast asleep.
And the sun was sinking slowly in the west. (I must say it was in the
west, because it is usual in books to say so, for fear careless people
should think it was setting in the east. In point of fact, it was not
exactly in the west either -- but that's near enough.) The sun, I repeat,
was sinking slowly in the west, and the children slept warmly and
happily on -- for wings are cosier than eider-down quilts to sleep under.
The shadow of the church-tower fell across the churchyard, and across
the Vicarage, and across the field beyond; and presently there were no
more shadows, and the sun had set, and the wings were gone. And still
the children slept. But not for long. Twilight is very beautiful, but it
is chilly; and you know, however sleepy you are, you wake up soon enough
if your brother or sister happens to be up first and pulls your blankets
off you. The four wingless children shivered and woke. And there they
were,-- on the top of a church-tower in the dusky twilight, with blue
stars coming out by ones and twos and tens and twenties over their
heads,-- miles away from home, with three shillings and three-halfpence
in their pockets, and a doubtful act about the necessities of life to
be accounted for if anyone found them with the soda-water syphon.

They looked at each other. Cyril spoke first, picking up the syphon
There was a little turret at the corner of the tower, and the little
turret had a door in it. They had noticed this when they were eating,
but had not explored it, as you would have done in their place. Because,
of course, when you have wings and can explore the whole sky, doors seem
hardly worth exploring.

Now they turned towards it
said Cyril
It was. But the door was locked on the inside!

And the world was growing darker and darker. And they were miles from
home. And there was the soda-water syphon.

I shall not tell you whether anyone cried, nor, if so, how many cried,
nor who cried. You will be better employed in making up your minds what
you would have done if you had been in their place
Whether anyone cried or not, there was certainly an interval during
which none of the party was quite itself. When they grew calmer, Anthea
put her handkerchief in her pocket and her arm round Jane, and said
said Cyril gloomily
said Cyril shortly
said Robert
Cyril's laugh was not a light-hearted one
said Jane
said Robert
she said
Anthea said
said Robert desperately
said Anthea swiftly
Jane did try to
and reduced her howls to sniffs.

There was a pause. Then Cyril said slowly
A four-fold yell rent the silent peace of the evening, and a maid at one
of the Vicarage windows paused with her hand on the blind-cord
Another yell, piercing and complex, startled the owls
and starlings to a flutter of feathers in the belfry below. The maid
flew from the Vicarage window and ran down the Vicarage stairs and into
the Vicarage kitchen, and fainted as soon as she had explained to the
man-servant and the cook and the cook's cousin that she had seen a
ghost. It was quite untrue, of course, but I suppose the girl's nerves
were a little upset by the yelling
The Vicar was on his doorstep by this time, and there
was no mistaking the yell that greeted him
he said to his wife
The children had seen the flash of light when the Vicar opened his front
door. They had seen his dark form on his doorstep, and they had paused
for breath, and also to see what he would do.

When he turned back for his hat, Cyril said hastily
It was certainly a whole yell this time, and the Vicar's wife flung her
arms round her husband and screamed a feeble echo of it
she said
the maid unfainted and
came out of the kitchen
said Jessie to herself as she went
through the kitchen door
she said
said Andrew in low firm tones. To his master he
merely said
said Andrew
said the Vicar
He pushed
her gently into the sitting-room, banged the door, and rushed out,
dragging Andrew by the arm.

A volley of yells greeted them. Then as it died into silence Andrew
shouted
shouted four far-away voices
said the Vicar
shouted Andrew; and Cyril replied in his deepest
voice, very slow and loud
said Andrew; and the same voice replied
said the Vicar
shouted Cyril from the church-tower
said Andrew
said the Vicar
So Andrew fetched the lantern and the cook's cousin; and the Vicar's
wife begged them all to be very careful.

They went across the churchyard -- it was quite dark now -- and as they went
they talked. The Vicar was certain a lunatic was on the
church-tower -- the one who had written the mad letter, and taken the cold
tongue and things. Andrew thought it was a "trap"; the cook's cousin
alone was calm
said he
He was not at all afraid. But then he had a gun. That was why
he was asked to lead the way up the worn, steep, dark steps of the
church-tower. He did lead the way, with the lantern in one hand and the
gun in the other. Andrew went next. He pretended afterwards that this
was because he was braver than his master, but really it was because he
thought of traps and he did not like the idea of being behind the others
for fear someone should come softly up behind him and catch hold of his
legs in the dark. They went on and on, and round and round the little
corkscrew staircase -- then through the bell-ringers' loft, where the
bell-ropes hung with soft furry ends like giant caterpillars -- then up
another stair into the belfry, where the big quiet bells are -- and then
on up a ladder with broad steps -- and then up a little stone stair. And
at the top of that there was a little door. And the door was bolted on
the stair side.

The cook's cousin, who was a gamekeeper, kicked at the door, and said
The children were holding on to each other on the other side of the
door, and trembling with anxiousness -- and very hoarse with their howls.
They could hardly speak, but Cyril managed to reply huskily
It was no use saying
so Cyril said
asked the keeper
said Cyril
said the
keeper
said all the children together
said the Vicar
said the keeper. Andrew went down a few
steps
he said afterwards
said the Vicar
he said through the
keyhole
said the keeper
As a matter of fact it hadn't.

When all the bolts were drawn, the keeper spoke deep-chested words
through the keyhole.

&lsqb;The keeper spoke deep-chested words through the keyhole
said he
said the voices.

The keeper felt pleased with himself, and owned himself a bold man when
he threw open that door, and, stepping out into the leads, flashed the
full light of the stable lantern on the group of desperadoes standing
against the parapet on the other side of the tower.

He lowered his gun, and he nearly dropped the lantern
he cried
The Vicar now advanced
he asked severely
said Jane, catching at his coat
The others crowded round him, with the same entreaty. All but Cyril.
He had enough to do with the soda-water syphon, which would keep
slipping down under his jacket. It needed both hands to keep it steady
in its place.

But he said, standing as far out of the lantern light as possible
So they were taken down. It is no joke to go down a strange church-tower
in the dark, but the keeper helped them -- only, Cyril had to be
independent because of the soda-water syphon. It would keep trying to
get away. Half-way down the ladder it all but escaped. Cyril just caught
it by its spout, and as nearly as possible lost his footing. He was
trembling and pale when at last they reached the bottom of the winding
stair and stepped out on to the stones of the church-porch.

Then suddenly the keeper caught Cyril and Robert each by an arm
said he
said Cyril
said the keeper; and Cyril dared not oppose him
with violence, because just then the syphon began to slip again.

So they were marched into the Vicarage study, and the Vicar's wife came
rushing in
she cried.

Robert hastened to allay her anxiety
he said
said
Anthea
The Vicar had sunk into a chair, overcome by emotion and amazement.

Cyril had also sat down, and was leaning forward with his elbows on his
knees because of the soda-water syphon
asked the
Vicar
said Robert slowly
said the Vicar's wife
said Jane gently
asked the Vicar
said Robert, with perfect truth
said the Vicar
said Andrew to himself.

And the Vicar went on
He went on
talking, and the children listened miserably. But the keeper was not
listening. He was looking at the unfortunate Cyril. He knew all about
poachers, of course, so he knew how people look when they're hiding
something. The Vicar had just got to the part about trying to grow up
to be a blessing to your parents, and not a trouble and disgrace, when
the keeper suddenly said
and Cyril knew that
concealment was at an end. So he stood up, and squared his shoulders and
tried to look noble, like the boys in books that no one can look in the
face of and doubt that they come of brave and noble families, and will
be faithful to the death, and he pulled out the syphon and said
There was silence. Cyril went on -- there was nothing else for it
said Mrs. Vicar
said Cyril firmly
asked the clergyman
answered Jane suddenly
She ran to the Vicar's wife and threw her arms round
her. The Vicar's wife put her arms round Jane, and the keeper whispered
behind his hand to the Vicar
said the Vicar kindly
said Anthea, thinking of the Psammead
said the Vicar
said Cyril
said the Vicar's wife
When Andrew came to say that the horse was put to, and was he expected
to be led alone into the trap that he had plainly seen from the first,
he found the children eating cake and drinking milk and laughing at the
Vicar's jokes. Jane was sitting on the Vicar's wife's lap.

So you see they got off better than they deserved.

The gamekeeper, who was the cook's cousin, asked leave to drive home
with them, and Andrew was only too glad to have someone to protect him
from that trap he was so certain of.

When the wagonette reached their own house, between the chalk-quarry and
the gravel-pit, the children were very sleepy, but they felt that they
and the keeper were friends for life.

Andrew dumped the children down at the iron gate without a word
said the Vicarage cook's cousin, who was a
gamekeeper
So Andrew had to drive off alone, which he did not like at all, and it
was the keeper that was cousin to the Vicarage cook who went with the
children to the door, and, when they had been swept to bed in a
whirlwind of reproaches, remained to explain to Martha and the cook and
the housemaid exactly what had happened. He explained so well that
Martha was quite amicable the next morning.

After that he often used to come over and see Martha, and in the
end -- but that is another story, as dear Mr. Kipling says.

Martha was obliged to stick to what she had said the night before about
keeping the children indoors the next day for a punishment. But she
wasn't at all ugly about it, and agreed to let Robert go out for half an
hour to get something he particularly wanted.

This, of course, was the day's wish.

Robert rushed to the gravel-pit, found the Psammead, and presently
wished for --

But that, too, is another story
The others were to be kept in as a punishment for the misfortunes of the
day before. Of course Martha thought it was naughtiness, and not
misfortune -- so you must not blame her. She only thought she was doing
her duty. You know, grown-up people often say they do not like to punish
you, and that they only do it for your own good, and that it hurts them
as much as it hurts you -- and this is really very often the truth.

Martha certainly hated having to punish the children quite as much as
they hated to be punished. For one thing, she knew what a noise there
would be in the house all day. And she had other reasons
she said to the cook
People say that in Kent when they mean
So all the others were kept in, but Robert, as I have said, was allowed
to go out for half an hour to get something they all wanted. And that,
of course, was the day's wish.

He had no difficulty in finding the Sand-fairy, for the day was already
so hot that it had actually, for the first time, come out of its own
accord, and was sitting in a sort of pool of soft sand, stretching
itself, and trimming its whiskers, and turning its snail's eyes round
and round
it said when its left eye saw Robert
said Robert
said the Psammead, twisting itself round in the sand. But
Robert couldn't wish away. He forgot all the things he had been thinking
about, and nothing would come into his head but little things for
himself, like candy, a foreign stamp album, or a knife with three blades
and a corkscrew. He sat down to think better of things the others would
not have cared for -- such as a football, or a pair of leg-guards, or to
be able to lick Simpkins Minor thoroughly when he went back to school
said the Psammead at last
said Robert
But it was too late. The Psammead had blown itself out to about three
times its proper size, and now it collapsed like a pricked bubble, and
with a deep sigh leaned back against the edge of the sand-pool, quite
faint with the effort
it said in a weak voice
They were -- quite sure; Robert felt this, and as he ran home his mind was
deeply occupied with the sort of wishes he might find they had wished in
his absence. They might wish for rabbits, or white mice, or chocolate,
or a fine day to-morrow, or even -- and that was most likely -- someone
might have said
Well, he
_was_ hurrying up, and so they would have had their wish, and the day
would be wasted. Then he tried to think what they could wish
for -- something that would be amusing indoors. That had been his own
difficulty from the beginning. So few things are amusing indoors when
the sun is shining outside and you mayn't go out, however much you want
to do so.

Robert was running as fast as he could, but when he turned the corner
that ought to have brought him within sight of the architect's
nightmare -- the ornamental iron-work on the top of the house -- he opened
his eyes so wide that he had to drop into a walk; for you cannot run
with your eyes wide open. Then suddenly he stopped short, for there was
no house to be seen. The front garden railings were gone too, and where
the house had stood -- Robert rubbed his eyes and looked again. Yes, the
others _had_ wished,-- there was no doubt about it,-- and they must have
wished that they lived in a castle; for there the castle stood, black
and stately, and very tall and broad, with battlements and lancet
windows, and eight great towers; and, where the garden and the orchard
had been, there were white things dotted like mushrooms. Robert walked
slowly on, and as he got nearer he saw that these were tents, and men in
armor were walking about among the tents -- crowds and crowds of them.

&lsqb;There the castle stood, black and stately
said Robert fervently
At the little window above the great gateway, across the moat that now
lay where the garden had been but half an hour ago, someone was waving
something pale dust-colored. Robert thought it was one of Cyril's
handkerchiefs. They had never been white since the day when he had upset
the bottle of
into the drawer
where they were. Robert waved back, and immediately felt that he had
been unwise. For this signal had been seen by the besieging force, and
two men in steel-caps were coming towards him. They had high brown boots
on their long legs, and they came towards him with such great strides
that Robert remembered the shortness of his own legs and did not run
away. He knew it would be useless to himself, and he feared it might be
irritating to the foe. So he stood still -- and the two men seemed quite
pleased with him
said one
Robert felt pleased at being _called_ brave, and somehow it made him
_feel_ brave. He passed over the
It was the way people talked
in historical romances for the young, he knew, and it was evidently not
meant for rudeness. He only hoped he would be able to understand what
they said to him. He had not been always able quite to follow the
conversations in the historical romances for the young
said the other
Robert knew this meant
so he said
said the man in the longest boots
he added in a cautious undertone
inquired the man with the largest
steel-cap
said Robert; and directly he had said it he knew he ought
to have said
rejoined the longest boots
And to the leader Robert was dragged forthwith -- by the reluctant ear.

&lsqb;Robert was dragged forthwith -- by the reluctant ear&rsqb;

The leader was the most glorious creature Robert had ever seen. He was
exactly like the pictures Robert had so often admired in the historical
romances. He had armor, and a helmet, and a horse, and a crest, and
feathers, and a shield and a lance and a sword. His armor and his
weapons were all, I am almost sure, of quite different periods. The
shield was thirteenth century, while the sword was of the pattern
used in the Peninsular War. The cuirass was of the time of Charles I.,
and the helmet dated from the Second Crusade. The arms on the shield
were very grand -- three red running lions on a blue ground. The tents
were of the latest brand approved of by our modern War Office, and the
whole appearance of camp, army, and leader might have been a shock to
some. But Robert was dumb with admiration, and it all seemed to him
perfectly correct, because he knew no more of heraldry or archaeology
than the gifted artists who usually drew the pictures for the historical
romances. The scene was indeed
He admired it
all so much that he felt braver than ever
said the glorious leader, when the men in
Cromwellian steel-caps had said a few low eager words. And he took off
his helmet, because he could not see properly with it on. He had a kind
face, and long fair hair
he
said.

Robert was glad of that. He wondered what "scathe" was, and if it was
nastier than the medicine which he had to take sometimes
said the leader kindly
said Robert
said Robert
He wiped away a manly tear&rsqb;

The leader wiped away a manly tear, exactly as a leader in a historical
romance would have done, and said
Robert had a wild feeling that this glorious leader of the besieging
party -- being himself part of a wish -- would be able to understand better
than Martha, or the gipsies, or the policeman in Rochester, or the
clergyman of yesterday, the true tale of the wishes and the Psammead.
The only difficulty was that he knew he could never remember enough
"quothas" and
and things like that, to make his talk
sound like the talk of a boy in a historical romance. However, he began
boldly enough, with a sentence straight out of _Ralph de Courcy; or, The
Boy Crusader_. He said
said the knight
muttered one of the men-at-arms, looking
at Robert, who went on as if he had not heard, though he thought the
remark very rude indeed
said Sir Wulfric de Talbot
said the knight, with
polite sympathy
Robert explained
he pointed to the castle
said the
gallant leader
said Robert, with hasty courtesy
asked Sir Wulfric haughtily
said Robert desperately
The captain and the men-at-arms exchanged glances at first pitying, and
then sterner, as the longest-booted man said
said Robert angrily
asked the knight, who seemed to have believed all the
enchanter story till it came to his own share in it
Robert pointed to the castle
said Robert, struck by a sudden idea
His mind sought eagerly among the memories of the
historical romance
he said slowly
replied Sir Wulfric. But
the appeal seemed to have gone home
he added
thoughtfully
he added nobly
said Robert wildly
He saluted after the modern military manner, and set off running to the
sand-pit, Jakin's long boots keeping up easily.

He found the Fairy. He dug it up, he woke it up, he implored it to give
him one more wish
it grumbled
said Robert, while Jakin looked on with an
expression of open-mouthed horror at the strange beast that talked, and
gazed with its snail's eyes at him
said Robert
snapped the Psammead, with cross sleepiness
said Robert. And the Psammead began to
swell. Robert never thought of wishing the castle and the siege away. Of
course he knew they had all come out of a wish, but swords and daggers
and pikes and lances seemed much too real to be wished away. Robert lost
consciousness for an instant. When he opened his eyes the others were
crowding round him
they said
said Robert, very crossly indeed
Then he told his story, and the others admitted that it certainly had
been rough on him. But they praised his courage and cleverness so much
that he presently got back his lost temper, and felt braver than ever,
and consented to be captain of the besieged force
said Anthea comfortably
said Robert cautiously
said Cyril
It was. It was square, with stone walls four feet thick, and great beams
for ceiling. A low door at the corner led to a flight of steps, up and
down. The children went down; they found themselves in a great arched
gate-house -- the enormous doors were shut and barred. There was a window
in a little room at the bottom of the round turret up which the stair
wound, rather larger than the other windows, and looking through it they
saw that the drawbridge was up and the portcullis down; the moat looked
very wide and deep. Opposite the great door that led to the moat was
another great door, with a little door in it. The children went through
this, and found themselves in a big courtyard, with the great grey walls
of the castle rising dark and heavy on all four sides.

Near the middle of the courtyard stood Martha, moving her right hand
backwards and forwards in the air. The cook was stooping down and moving
her hands, also in a very curious way. But the oddest and at the same
time most terrible thing was the Lamb, who was sitting on nothing, about
three feet from the ground, laughing happily.

The children ran towards him. Just as Anthea was reaching out her arms
to take him, Martha said crossly
said Anthea
She went towards the cook, and seemed to poke an invisible fire with an
unseen poker -- the cook seemed to be putting an unseen dish into an
invisible oven
she said
asked Jane anxiously
they said, and hastened away. They would have to defend the
castle presently, and the Lamb was safer even suspended in mid air in an
invisible kitchen than in the guard-room of the besieged castle. They
went through the first doorway they came to, and sat down helplessly on
a wooden bench that ran along the room inside
said Anthea and Jane together; and Jane added
Anthea said
said Robert bitterly; and Cyril said
He buried his face in his hands, and the others looked about them. They
were in a long room with an arched roof. There were wooden tables along
it, and one across at the end of the room, on a sort of raised platform.
The room was very dim and dark. The floor was strewn with dry things
like sticks, and they did not smell nice.

Cyril sat up suddenly and said
said Jane
said Anthea
This lighted hope in every breast, and they went on exploring the
castle. But though it was the most perfect and delightful castle you can
possibly imagine, and furnished in the most complete and beautiful
manner, neither food nor men-at-arms were to be found in it
said Jane reproachfully
said Anthea
It wasn't; but they hung about watching the strange movements of the
servants in the middle of the courtyard, because, of course, they
couldn't be sure where the dining-room of the invisible house was.
Presently they saw Martha carrying an invisible tray across the
courtyard, for it seemed that, by the most fortunate accident, the
dining-room of the house and the banqueting-hall of the castle were in
the same place. But oh, how their hearts sank when they perceived that
the tray _was_ invisible!

They waited in wretched silence while Martha went through the form of
carving an unseen leg of mutton and serving invisible greens and
potatoes with a spoon that no one could see. When she had left the room,
the children looked at the empty table, and then at each other
said Robert, who had not till now been
particularly keen on his dinner
said Anthea, trying to make the best of
things, as usual.

Cyril tightened his belt ostentatiously. Jane burst into tears
The children were sitting in the gloomy banqueting-hall, at the end of
one of the long bare wooden tables. There was now no hope. Martha had
brought in the dinner, and the dinner was invisible, and unfeelable too;
for, when they rubbed their hands along the table, they knew but too
well that for them there was nothing there _but_ table.

Suddenly Cyril felt in his pocket
he cried
Somewhat broken and crumbled, certainly, but still biscuits. Three whole
ones, and a generous handful of crumbs and fragments
he explained
as he divided them with scrupulous fairness into four heaps.

They were eaten in a happy silence, though they had an odd taste,
because they had been in Cyril's pocket all the morning with a hank of
tarred twine, some green fir-cones, and a ball of cobbler's wax
said Robert
said Cyril after a pause
said Robert
said Jane, thinking of the biscuits
said Cyril
He leaned over the table with his face about an inch from it, and kept
opening and shutting his mouth as if he were taking bites out of air
said Robert in deep dejection
Cyril stood up with a grin of triumph, holding a square piece of bread
in his mouth. It was quite real. Everyone saw it. It is true that,
directly he bit a piece off, the rest vanished; but it was all right,
because he knew he had it in his hand though he could neither see nor
feel it. He took another bite from the air between his fingers, and it
turned into bread as he bit. The next moment all the others were
following his example, and opening and shutting their mouths an inch or
so from the bare-looking table. Robert captured a slice of mutton,
and -- but I think I will draw a veil over the rest of this painful scene.
It is enough to say that they all had enough mutton, and that when
Martha came to change the plates she said she had never seen such a mess
in all her born days.

The pudding was, fortunately, a plain suet one, and in answer to
Martha's questions the children all with one accord said that they would
_not_ have molasses on it -- nor jam, nor sugar
they said. Martha said
and went
away.

Then ensued another scene on which I will not dwell, for nobody looks
nice picking up slices of suet pudding from the table in its mouth, like
a dog.

The great thing, after all, was that they had had dinner; and now
everyone felt more courage to prepare for the attack that was to be
delivered before sunset. Robert, as captain, insisted on climbing to the
top of one of the towers to reconnoitre, so up they all went. And now
they could see all round the castle, and could see, too, that beyond the
moat, on every side, tents of the besieging party were pitched. Rather
uncomfortable shivers ran down the children's backs as they saw that all
the men were very busy cleaning or sharpening their arms, re-stringing
their bows, and polishing their shields. A large party came along the
road, with horses dragging along the great trunk of a tree; and Cyril
felt quite pale, because he knew this was for a battering-ram
he said
said Robert
said Cyril darkly
asked Anthea
said Anthea
said
Jane.

But no one answered.

The children found plenty of strange weapons in the castle, and if they
were armed at all it was soon plain that they would be, as Cyril said
for these swords and lances and crossbows were far too
weighty even for Cyril's manly strength; and as for the longbows, none
of the children could even begin to bend them. The daggers were better;
but Jane hoped that the besiegers would not come close enough for
daggers to be of any use
said Cyril
So a heap of stones grew apace, up in the room above the gate; and
another heap, a shiny spiky dangerous-looking heap, of daggers and
knives.

As Anthea was crossing the courtyard for more stones, a sudden and
valuable idea came to her.

She went to Martha and said
This was indeed a happy thought, for now with four generous handfuls of
air, which turned to biscuits as Martha crammed it into their pockets,
the garrison was well provisioned till sundown.

They brought up some iron pots of cold water to pour on the besiegers
instead of hot lead, with which the castle did not seem to be provided.

The afternoon passed with wonderful quickness. It was very exciting; but
none of them, except Robert, could feel all the time that this was real
deadly dangerous work. To the others, who had only seen the camp and the
besiegers from a distance, the whole thing seemed half a game of
make-believe, and half a splendidly distinct and perfectly safe dream.
But it was only now and then that Robert could feel this.

When it seemed to be tea-time the biscuits were eaten, with water from
the deep well in the courtyard, drunk out of horns. Cyril insisted on
putting by eight of the biscuits, in case anyone should feel faint in
stress of battle.

Just as he was putting away the reserve biscuits in a sort of little
stone cupboard without a door, a sudden sound made him drop three. It
was the loud fierce cry of a trumpet
said Robert
All rushed to the narrow windows
said Robert
The others were far too pale to wish to put their tongues out at
anybody. They looked at Robert with surprised respect. Anthea said
Cyril's pallor turned to redness now, all in a minute
said Jane
Robert was beginning sternly, but Anthea interrupted
she said coaxingly
asked Jane,
panting
Anthea pointed cheerfully through the narrow
window
Jane consented to look, and the scene was almost too pretty to be
alarming. The green turf, the white tents, the flash of pennoned lances,
the gleam of armour, and the bright colours of scarf and tunic -- it was
just like a splendid coloured picture. The trumpets were sounding, and
when the trumpeters stopped for breath the children could hear the
cling-clang of armour and the murmur of voices.

A trumpeter came forward to the edge of the moat, which now seemed very
much narrower than at first, and blew the longest and loudest blast they
had yet heard. When the blaring noise had died away, a man who was with
the trumpeter shouted
and his voice came plainly to the garrison in
the gate-house
Robert bellowed back at once
bawled Robert
The man answered back
said Robert in a fierce whisper
The
cheers were rather high and weak, but the rattle of the daggers lent
them strength and depth.

There was another shout from the camp across the moat -- and then the
beleaguered fortress felt that the attack had indeed begun.

It was getting rather dark in the room above the great gate, and Jane
took a very little courage as she remembered that sunset _couldn't_ be
far off now
said Anthea
said
Robert. And as he spoke he heard feet on the stair outside -- heavy feet
and the clang of steel. No one breathed for a moment. The steel and the
feet went on up the turret stairs. Then Robert sprang softly to the
door. He pulled off his shoes
he whispered, and stole quickly and softly after the boots
and the spur-clank. He peeped into the upper room. The man was
there -- and it was Jakin, all dripping with moat-water, and he was
fiddling about with the machinery which Robert felt sure worked the
drawbridge. Robert banged the door suddenly, and turned the great key in
the lock, just as Jakin sprang to the inside of the door. Then he tore
downstairs and into the little turret at the foot of the tower where the
biggest window was
he cried to the others as they
followed him. He was just in time. Another man had swum over, and his
fingers were on the window-ledge. Robert never knew how the man had
managed to climb up out of the water. But he saw the clinging fingers,
and hit them as hard as he could with an iron bar that he caught up from
the floor. The man fell with a splash into the moat-water. In another
moment Robert was outside the little room, had banged its door and was
shooting home the enormous bolts, and calling to Cyril to lend a hand.

&lsqb;The man fell with a splash into the moat-water&rsqb;

Then they stood in the arched gate-house, breathing hard and looking at
each other.

Jane's mouth was open
said Robert
There was a creaking above, and something rattled and shook. The
pavement they stood on seemed to tremble. Then a crash told them that
the drawbridge had been lowered to its place
said Robert
And now the drawbridge rang and echoed hollowly to the hoofs of horses
and the tramp of armed men
cried Robert
Even the girls were feeling almost brave now. They followed Robert
quickly, and under his directions began to drop stones out through the
long narrow windows. There was a confused noise below, and some groans
said Anthea, putting down the stone she was just going to
drop out
Robert caught up the stone in a fury
he said
And now came more tramping and a pause, and then the thundering thump of
the battering-ram. And the little room was almost pitch dark
cried Robert
said Jane
said Robert
Jane pleaded
said the bloodthirsty Robert.
So Anthea tilted the pot over the nearest lead-hole, and poured. They
heard a splash below, but no one below seemed to have felt it. And again
the ram battered the great door. Anthea paused.

&lsqb;Anthea tilted the pot over the nearest lead-hole
said Robert, lying flat on the floor and putting one eye
to the lead-hole
He crawled
on to the three-cornered window-ledge in the middle of the wall, and,
taking the pot from Anthea, poured the water out through the arrow-slit.

And as he began to pour, the noise of the battering-ram and the
trampling of the foe and the shouts of
and
all suddenly stopped and went out like the snuff of a candle; the
little dark room seemed to whirl round and turn topsy-turvy, and when
the children came to themselves there they were, safe and sound, in the
big front bedroom of their own house -- the house with the ornamental
nightmare iron-top to the roof.

They all crowded to the window and looked out. The moat and the tents
and the besieging force were all gone -- and there was the garden with its
tangle of dahlias and marigolds and asters and later roses, and the
spiky iron railings and the quiet white road.

Everyone drew a deep breath
said Robert
asked Cyril
said Anthea slowly
said Jane unexpectedly
Cyril was beginning, but Anthea stopped him
she said
she added hastily
The door was opened suddenly and fiercely
said the voice of Martha, and
they could tell by her voice that she was very angry indeed
She flounced out amid a disregarded chorus of regrets and apologies. The
children were very sorry, but really it was not their faults.

You can't help it if you are pouring water on a besieging foe, and your
castle suddenly changes into your house -- and everything changes with it
except the water, and that happens to fall on somebody else's clean cap
said
Cyril
asked Robert
said
Jane. And that was really the case
said
Cyril
said Jane
said Anthea briskly
said Jane
dreamily
said Anthea
said Cyril
said Robert sympathetically
said Anthea
said Robert.

Cyril balanced himself on the edge of the water-butt in the backyard,
where they all happened to be, and spoke
said Robert
said Cyril firmly
whispered Robert
said Robert
Cyril went on
A struggle on the edge of a water-butt is exciting but damp. When it was
over, and the boys were partially dried, Anthea said
said Cyril, still wringing the water out of the tails of
his jacket
said Robert sulkily
Anthea patiently offered a dust-coloured handkerchief, and Robert bathed
his wounds in silence
she said
The others consented. Bandits was hastily chosen for the game
said Jane gloomily. It must be owned that
Robert was at first but a half-hearted bandit, but when Anthea had
borrowed from Martha the red-spotted handkerchief in which the keeper
had brought her mushrooms that morning, and had tied up Robert's head
with it so that he could be the wounded hero who had saved the bandit
captain's life the day before, he cheered up wonderfully. All were soon
armed. Bows and arrows slung on the back look well; and umbrellas and
cricket stumps through the belt give a fine impression of the wearer's
being armed to the teeth. The white cotton hats that men wear in the
country nowadays have a very brigandish effect when a few turkey's
feathers are stuck in them. The Lamb's mail-cart was covered with a
red-and-blue checked table-cloth, and made an admirable baggage-wagon.
The Lamb asleep inside it was not at all in the way. So the banditti set
out along the road that led to the sand-pit
said Cyril
It is all very well to make up your minds to play bandit -- or chess, or
ping-pong, or any other agreeable game -- but it is not easy to do it with
spirit when all the wonderful wishes you can think of, or can't think
of, are waiting for you round the corner. The game was dragging a
little, and some of the bandits were beginning to feel that the others
were disagreeable things, and were saying so candidly, when the baker's
boy came along the road with loaves in a basket. The opportunity was not
one to be lost
cried Cyril
said Robert.

And they stood on each side of the baker's boy. Unfortunately, he did
not seem to enter into the spirit of the thing at all. He was a baker's
boy of an unusually large size. He merely said
and pushed the bandits aside most
disrespectfully.

Then Robert lassoed him with Jane's skipping-rope, and instead of going
round his shoulders, as Robert intended, it went round his feet and
tripped him up. The basket was upset, the beautiful new loaves went
bumping and bouncing all over the dusty chalky road. The girls ran to
pick them up, and all in a moment Robert and the baker's boy were
fighting it out, man to man, with Cyril to see fair play, and the
skipping-rope twisting round their legs like an interesting snake that
wished to be a peace-maker. It did not succeed; indeed the way the
boxwood handles sprang up and hit the fighters on the shins and ankles
was not at all peace-making. I know this is the second fight -- or
contest -- in this chapter, but I can't help it. It was that sort of day.
You know yourself there are days when rows seem to keep on happening,
quite without your meaning them to. If I were a writer of tales of
adventure such as those which used to appear in _The Boys of England_
when I was young of course I should be able to describe the fight, but I
cannot do it. I never can see what happens during a fight, even when it
is only dogs. Also, if I had been one of these _Boys of England_
writers, Robert would have got the best of it. But I am like George
Washington -- I cannot tell a lie, even about a cherry-tree, much less
about a fight, and I cannot conceal from you that Robert was badly
beaten, for the second time that day. The baker's boy blacked his other
eye, and being ignorant of the first rules of fair play and gentlemanly
behaviour, he also pulled Robert's hair, and kicked him on the knee.
Robert always used to say he could have licked the baker if it hadn't
been for the girls. But I am not sure. Anyway, what happened was this,
and very painful it was to self-respecting boys.

&lsqb;He pulled Robert's hair&rsqb;

Cyril was just tearing off his coat so as to help his brother in proper
style, when Jane threw her arms round his legs and began to cry and ask
him not to go and be beaten too. That "too" was very nice for Robert, as
you can imagine -- but it was nothing to what he felt when Anthea rushed
in between him and the baker's boy, and caught that unfair and degraded
fighter round the waist, imploring him not to fight any more
she said in floods of tears
You see how unfair this was to Robert. Because, if the baker's boy had
had any right and chivalrous instincts, and had yielded to Anthea's
pleading and accepted her despicable apology, Robert could not, in
honour, have done anything to him at any future time. But Robert's
fears, if he had any, were soon dispelled. Chivalry was a stranger to
the breast of the baker's boy. He pushed Anthea away very roughly, and
he chased Robert with kicks and unpleasant conversation right down the
road to the sand-pit, and there, with one last kick, he landed him in a
heap of sand
he said, and went off to pick up his
loaves and go about his business. Cyril, impeded by Jane, could do
nothing without hurting her, for she clung round his legs with the
strength of despair. The baker's boy went off red and damp about the
face; abusive to the last, he called them a pack of silly idiots, and
disappeared round the corner. Then Jane's grasp loosened. Cyril turned
away in silent dignity to follow Robert, and the girls followed him,
weeping without restraint.

It was not a happy party that flung itself down in the sand beside the
sobbing Robert. For Robert was sobbing -- mostly with rage. Though of
course I know that a really heroic boy is always dry-eyed after a fight.
But then he always wins, which had not been the case with Robert.

Cyril was angry with Jane; Robert was furious with Anthea; the girls
were miserable; and not one of the four was pleased with the baker's
boy. There was, as French writers say
Then Robert dug his toes and his hands into the sand and wriggled in his
rage
said Jane incautiously
Robert tore down a stocking and showed a purple bruise touched up with
red
He dug his fingers in the sand, and sprang up, for his hand had touched
something furry. It was the Psammead, of course
as Cyril remarked later. And of course
the next moment Robert's wish was granted, and he was bigger than the
baker's boy. Oh, but much, much bigger! He was bigger than the big
policeman who used to be at the crossing at the Mansion House years
ago,-- the one who was so kind in helping old ladies over the
crossing,-- and he was the biggest man _I_ have ever seen, as well as the
kindest. No one had a foot-rule in its pocket, so Robert could not be
measured -- but he was taller than your father would be if he stood on
your mother's head, which I am sure he would never be unkind enough to
do. He must have been ten or eleven feet high, and as broad as a boy of
that height ought to be. His suit had fortunately grown too, and now he
stood up in it -- with one of his enormous stockings turned down to show
the gigantic bruise on his vast leg. Immense tears of fury still stood
on his flushed giant face. He looked so surprised, and he was so large
to be wearing a turned down collar outside of his jacket that the others
could not help laughing
said Cyril
said Cyril
said Robert
he added thoughtlessly
Cyril
was beginning; but Anthea said
The others agreed, but not gaily; but when they found the Psammead, it
wouldn't
it said crossly, rubbing its face with its feet
Robert's hands had indeed been wet -- with tears
the Psammead went on
It almost snarled as it shook its whiskers, and turned a sulky brown
back on them. The most hopeful felt that further parley was vain.

They turned again to the colossal Robert
they said; and they all said it
said Robert grimly
said Cyril
said Robert scornfully
He pulled up his stocking, which was as large as a small
bolster-case, and strode off. His strides were six or seven feet long,
so that it was quite easy for him to be at the bottom of the hill, ready
to meet the baker's boy when he came down swinging the empty basket to
meet his master's cart, which had been leaving bread at the cottages
along the road.

Robert crouched behind a haystack in the farmyard, that is at the
corner, and when he heard the boy come whistling along he jumped out at
him and caught him by the collar
he said, and his voice was about four times its usual size, just
as his body was four times its
He lifted up the baker's boy and set him on the top of the haystack,
which was about sixteen feet from the ground, and then he sat down on
the roof of the barn and told the baker's boy exactly what he thought of
him. I don't think the boy heard it all -- he was in a sort of trance of
terror. When Robert had said everything he could think of, and some
things twice over, he shook the boy and said --

&lsqb;He lifted up the baker's boy and set him on top of the
haystack
and left him.

I don't know how the baker's boy got down, but I do know that he missed
the cart and got into the very hottest of hot water when he turned up at
last at the bakehouse. I am sorry for him, but after all, it was quite
right that he should be taught that boys mustn't use their feet when
they fight, but their fists. Of course the water he got into only became
hotter when he tried to tell his master about the boy he had licked
and the giant as high as a church, because no one could possibly believe
such a tale as that. Next day the tale was believed -- but that was too
late to be of any use to the baker's boy.

When Robert rejoined the others he found them in the garden. Anthea had
thoughtfully asked Martha to let them have dinner out there -- because the
dining-room was rather small, and it would have been so awkward to have
a brother the size of Robert in there. The Lamb, who had slept
peacefully during the whole stormy morning, was now found to be
sneezing, and Martha said he had a cold and would be better indoors
said Cyril
Robert was indeed what a draper would call an "out-size" in boys. He
found himself able to step right over the iron gate in the front
garden.

Martha brought out the dinner -- it was cold veal and baked potatoes, with
sago pudding and stewed plums to follow.

She of course did not notice that Robert was anything but the usual
size, and she gave him as much meat and potatoes as usual and no more.
You have no idea how small your usual helping of dinner looks when you
are many times your proper size. Robert groaned, and asked for more
bread. But Martha would not go on giving more bread for ever. She was in
a hurry, because the keeper intended to call on his way to Benenhurst
Fair, and she wished to be smartly dressed before he came
said Robert
said Cyril
said Robert
Cyril was beginning, when Jane screamed
with such loud suddenness that they all thumped her on the back and
asked whether she had swallowed a plum-stone
she said, breathless from being thumped
said Robert indignantly
And so it turned out. The idea appealed irresistibly to everyone but
Robert, and even he was brought round by Anthea's suggestion that he
should have a double share of any money they might make. There was a
little old pony-cart in the coach-house -- the kind that is called a
governess-cart. It seemed desirable to get to the Fair as quickly as
possible, so Robert -- who could now take enormous steps and so go very
fast indeed -- consented to wheel the others in this. It was as easy to
him now as wheeling the Lamb in the mail-cart had been in the morning.
The Lamb's cold prevented his being of the party.

It was a strange sensation being wheeled in a pony-carriage by a giant.
Everyone enjoyed the journey except Robert and the few people they
passed on the way. These mostly went into what looked like some kind of
standing-up fits by the roadside, as Anthea said. Just outside
Benenhurst, Robert hid in a barn, and the others went on to the Fair.

&lsqb;It was a strange sensation being wheeled in a
pony-carriage by a giant&rsqb;

There were some swings, and a hooting-tooting blaring merry-go-round,
and a shooting-gallery and Aunt Sallies. Resisting an impulse to win a
cocoanut,-- or at least to attempt the enterprise,-- Cyril went up to the
woman who was loading little guns before the array of glass bottles on
strings against a sheet of canvas
she said
said Cyril
she said, pointing to a stout man in a dirty linen jacket
who was sleeping in the sun
said Cyril
said the woman
said Anthea.

The woman looked doubtfully at them, then she called to a ragged little
girl in striped stockings and a dingy white petticoat that came below
her brown frock, and leaving her in charge of the "shooting-gallery" she
turned to Anthea and said
Anthea led the way to the barn
she said
The woman murmured something indistinct, of which the children could
only hear the words
and
which conveyed
no definite idea to their minds.

She had taken Anthea's hand, and was holding it very firmly; and Anthea
could not help wondering what would happen if Robert should have
wandered off or turned his proper size during the interval. But she knew
that the Psammead's gifts really did last till sunset, however
inconvenient their lasting might be; and she did not think, somehow,
that Robert would care to go out alone while he was that size.

When they reached the barn and Cyril called
there was a stir
among the loose hay, and Robert began to come out. His hand and arm came
first -- then a foot and leg. When the woman saw the hand she said
but when she saw the foot she said
and when, by slow and
heavy degrees, the whole of Robert's enormous bulk was at last
disclosed, she drew a long breath and began to say many things, compared
with which "balmy" and "crumpet" seemed quite ordinary. She dropped into
understandable English at last
she said excitedly
said Robert sternly
he hesitated at the enormous price he was
about to ask
said the woman, so quickly that Robert felt he had been unfair
to himself, and wished he had asked thirty
This was not very small, and a crowd gathered quickly, so that it was at
the head of an enthusiastic procession that Robert entered the trampled
meadow where the Fair was held, and passed over the stubby yellow dusty
grass to the door of the biggest tent. He crept in, and the woman went
to call her Bill. He was the big sleeping man, and he did not seem at
all pleased at being awakened. Cyril, watching through a slit in the
tent, saw him scowl and shake a heavy fist and a sleepy head. Then the
woman went on speaking very fast. Cyril heard
and
and he began to share Robert's feeling that
fifteen shillings was indeed far too little. Bill slouched up to the
tent and entered. When he beheld the magnificent proportions of Robert
he said but little
were the only words the children
could afterwards remember,-- but he produced fifteen shillings, mainly in
sixpences and coppers, and handed it to Robert
he said with hoarse heartiness
said Robert, rejecting the idea of trying to sing
a favourite of his mother's, and the only song he could think
of at the moment
the man went on
said Robert, looking down on the
Robert was crouched on his knees, because the tent was not big
enough for him to stand upright in, but even in that position he could
still look down on most people
said the hoarse Bill
Another whisper followed, of which the children only
heard
Then the woman went to get the food -- it was only bread and cheese when
it came, but it was delightful to the large and empty Robert; and the
man went to post sentinels round the tent, to give the alarm if Robert
should attempt to escape with his fifteen shillings
said Anthea indignantly when the meaning of
the sentinels dawned on her.

Then began a very strange and wonderful afternoon.

Bill was a man who knew his business. In a very little while, the
photographic views, the spyglasses you look at them through so that they
really seem rather real, and the lights you see them by, were all packed
away. A curtain -- it was an old red-and-black carpet really -- was run
across the tent. Robert was concealed behind, and Bill was standing on a
trestle-table outside the tent making a speech. It was rather a good
speech. It began by saying that the giant it was his privilege to
introduce to the public that day was the eldest son of the Emperor of
San Francisco, compelled through an unfortunate love affair with the
Duchess of the Fiji Islands to leave his own country and take refuge in
England -- the land of liberty -- where freedom was the right of every man,
no matter how big he was. It ended by the announcement that the first
twenty who came to the tent door should see the giant for threepence
apiece
said Bill
A young man with his sweetheart on her afternoon out was the first to
come forward. For this occasion his was the princely attitude -- no
expense spared -- money no object. His girl wished to see the giant? Well,
she should see the giant, even though seeing the giant cost threepence
each and the other entertainments were all penny ones.

The flap of the tent was raised -- the couple entered. Next moment a wild
shriek from the girl thrilled through all present. Bill slapped his leg
he whispered to 'Becca. It was indeed a
splendid advertisement of the charms of Robert.

When the young girl came out she was pale and trembling, and a crowd was
round the tent.

&lsqb;When the girl came out she was pale and trembling
asked a farm-hand
she said
The fierceness was only caused by Robert's trying not to laugh. But the
desire to do that soon left him, and before sunset he was more inclined
to cry than laugh, and more inclined to sleep than either. For, by ones
and twos and threes, people kept coming in all the afternoon, and Robert
had to shake hands with those who wished it, and to allow himself to be
punched and pulled and patted and thumped, so that people might make
sure he was really real.

The other children sat on a bench and watched and waited, and were very
bored indeed. It seemed to them that this was the hardest way of earning
money that could have been invented. And only fifteen shillings! Bill
had taken four times that already, for the news of the giant had spread,
and trades-people in carts, and gentlepeople in carriages, came from far
and near. One gentleman with an eyeglass, and a very large yellow rose
in his buttonhole, offered Robert, in an obliging whisper, ten pounds a
week to appear at the Crystal Palace. Robert had to say
he said regretfully
said Robert truthfully
said the gentleman.

When he had gone, Robert beckoned Cyril and said
Tea was provided, and a paper hastily pinned on the tent. It said --

            CLOSED FOR HALF AN HOUR
          WHILE THE GIANT GETS HIS TEA

Then there was a hurried council
said Robert
Robert opened his eyes
he said
said Cyril briskly, and he went to the door, outside which
Bill was smoking a clay pipe and talking in a low voice to 'Becca.
Cyril heard him say --"Good as havin' a fortune left you
said Cyril
asked Bill
said Cyril candidly
This was
true
said the woman.

And so, at what Cyril judged was about half an hour before sunset, the
tent was again closed
The crowd was very merry about the giant's meals and their coming so
close together
Bill owned
Inside the tent the four children breathlessly arranged a plan of
retreat
said Cyril to the girls
And Jane and Anthea went
they said to Bill
And that, as Anthea said afterwards, was very
deceitful, but what were they to do?

When they had gone, Cyril went to Bill
he said
The giant was made comfortable with a heap of sacks and an old
tarpaulin. The curtain was looped up, and the brothers were left alone.
They matured their plan in whispers. Outside, the merry-go-round blared
out its comic tunes, screaming now and then to attract public notice.

Half a minute after the sun had set, a boy came out past Bill
he said, and mingled quickly with the crowd.

At the same instant a boy came out of the back of the tent past 'Becca,
posted there as sentinel.

"I'm off after the corn," said this boy also. And he, too, moved away
quietly and was lost in the crowd. The front-door boy was Cyril; the
back-door was Robert -- now, since sunset, once more his proper size. They
walked quickly through the field, along the road, where Robert caught
Cyril up. Then they ran. They were home as soon as the girls were, for
it was a long way, and they ran most of it. It was indeed a _very_ long
way, as they found when they had to go and drag the pony-cart home next
morning, with no enormous Robert to wheel them in it as if it were a
mail-cart, and they were babies and he was their gigantic nursemaid.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot possibly tell you what Bill and 'Becca said when they found
that the giant had gone. For one thing, I do not know
Cyril had once pointed out that ordinary life is full of occasions on
which a wish would be most useful. And this thought filled his mind when
he happened to wake early on the morning after the morning after Robert
had wished to be bigger than the baker's boy, and had been it. The day
that lay between these two days had been occupied entirely by getting
the governess-cart home from Benenhurst.

Cyril dressed hastily; he did not take a bath, because tin baths are so
noisy, and he had no wish to rouse Robert, and he slipped off alone, as
Anthea had once done, and ran through the dewy morning to the sand-pit.
He dug up the Psammead very carefully and kindly, and began the
conversation by asking it whether it still felt any ill effects from
the contact with the tears of Robert the day before yesterday. The
Psammead was in good temper. It replied politely
it said
said Cyril cautiously
said the Psammead coldly
Cyril went on impatiently
added the crafty Cyril
said the Psammead, stretching its brown arms
and yawning
said Cyril politely
said the Psammead suddenly, shooting out its long
snail's eyes
And Cyril went
said Cyril after the
Lamb had taken his watch out of his pocket while he wasn't noticing, and
with coos and clucks of naughty rapture had opened the case and used the
whole thing as a garden spade, and when even immersion in a wash basin
had failed to wash the mould from the works and make the watch go again.
Cyril had said several things in the heat of the moment; but now he was
calmer, and had even consented to carry the Lamb part of the way to
the woods. Cyril had persuaded the others to agree to his plan, and not
to wish for anything more till they really did wish it. Meantime it
seemed good to go to the woods for nuts, and on the mossy grass under a
sweet chestnut tree the five were sitting. The Lamb was pulling up the
moss by fat handfuls, and Cyril was gloomily contemplating the ruins of
his watch.

&lsqb;He opened the case and used the whole thing as a garden
spade
said Anthea
said the Lamb cheerfully
Imagination or vocabulary gave out here. But
anyway it was the longest speech the Lamb had ever made, and it charmed
everyone, even Cyril, who tumbled the Lamb over and rolled him in the
moss to the music of delighted squeals
Anthea was saying, dreamily
looking up at the blue of the sky that showed between the long straight
chestnut-leaves. But at that moment the Lamb, struggling gaily with
Cyril, thrust a stout-shod little foot against his brother's chest;
there was a crack!-- the innocent Lamb had broken the glass of father's
second-best Waterbury watch, which Cyril had borrowed without leave
said Cyril bitterly, plumping the Lamb down on the
grass
cried Anthea in an agony of apprehension. But it was
too late -- like music to a song her words and Cyril's came out together --

Anthea
Cyril
The faithful Psammead was true to its promise, and there, before the
horrified eyes of its brothers and sisters, the Lamb suddenly and
violently grew up. It was the most terrible moment. The change was not
so sudden as the wish-changes usually were. The Baby's face changed
first. It grew thinner and larger, lines came in the forehead, the eyes
grew more deep-set and darker in colour, the mouth grew longer and
thinner; most terrible of all, a little dark mustache appeared on the
lip of one who was still -- except as to the face -- a two-year-old baby in
a linen smock and white open-work socks
They all wished hard, for the sight was enough to dismay the most
heartless. They all wished so hard, indeed, that they felt quite giddy
and almost lost consciousness; but the wishing was quite vain, for, when
the wood ceased to whirl round, their dazed eyes were riveted at once by
the spectacle of a very proper-looking young man in flannels and a straw
hat -- a young man who wore the same little black mustache which just
before they had actually seen growing upon the Baby's lip. This, then,
was the Lamb -- grown up! Their own Lamb! It was a terrible moment. The
grown-up Lamb moved gracefully across the moss and settled himself
against the trunk of the sweet chestnut. He tilted the straw hat over
his eyes. He was evidently weary. He was going to sleep. The Lamb -- the
original little tiresome beloved Lamb often went to sleep at odd times
and in unexpected places. Was this new Lamb in the grey flannel suit and
the pale green necktie like the other Lamb? or had his mind grown up
together with his body?

That was the question which the others, in a hurried council held among
the yellowing brake-fern a few yards from the sleeper, debated eagerly
said Anthea
said Jane
said Robert
said Cyril in scornful misery
said Robert hopefully
repeated Cyril
said Robert
They drew lots with little bits of brake fern. It fell to Jane's lot to
waken the grown-up Lamb.

She did it gently by tickling his nose with a twig of honeysuckle. He
said
twice, and then opened his eyes.

&lsqb;She did it gently by tickling his nose with a twig of
honeysuckle
he said in a languid tone
said Robert bitterly
said the grown-up Lamb
asked Jane
Blank misery fell like a pall on the four others. The
Lamb -- alone -- unattended -- would go to town and have lunch at a club!
Perhaps he would also have tea there. Perhaps sunset would come upon him
amid the dazzling luxury of club-land, and a helpless cross sleepy
baby would find itself alone amid unsympathetic waiters, and would wail
miserably for "Panty" from the depths of a club arm-chair! The picture
moved Anthea almost to tears
she cried incautiously.

The grown-up Lamb frowned
he said
This was awful. He was their elder brother now, was he? Well of course
he was, if he was grown-up -- since they weren't. Thus, in whispers,
Anthea and Robert.

But the almost daily adventures resulting from the Psammead's wishes
were making the children wise beyond their years
said Anthea, and the others choked at the name
she added to herself
said Cyril
said the Lamb courteously
Their beds! Speaking glances flashed between the wretched four. Much bed
there would be for them if they went home without the Lamb
Jane
said before the others could stop her
said the grown-up Lamb, putting his hands in his
pockets and looking down at her
said Cyril, in the best "man to man" tone at his command
This was really rather noble of Cyril, for he never did care much about
being seen in public with the Lamb, who of course after sunset would be
a baby again.

The "man to man" tone succeeded
said the new Lamb airily,
fingering the little black mustache
The position was desperate. Robert exchanged a despairing look with
Cyril. Anthea detached a pin from her waistband, a pin whose withdrawal
left a gaping chasm between skirt and bodice, and handed it furtively to
Robert -- with a grimace of the darkest and deepest meaning. Robert
slipped away to the road. There, sure enough, stood a bicycle -- a
beautiful new one. Of course Robert understood at once that if the Lamb
was grown up he _must_ have a bicycle.

&lsqb;There, sure enough, stood a bicycle&rsqb;

This had always been one of Robert's own reasons for wishing to be
grown-up. He hastily began to use the pin -- eleven punctures in the back
tyre, seven in the front. He would have made the total twenty-two but
for the rustling of the yellow hazel-leaves, which warned him of the
approach of the others. He hastily leaned a hand on each wheel, and was
rewarded by the "whish" of the what was left of air escaping from
eighteen neat pin-holes
said Robert, wondering how he could so soon have
learned to deceive
said Cyril
said Anthea, stooping down, and standing up again
with a thorn which she had got ready for the purpose
The grown-up Lamb (or Hilary, as I suppose one must now call him) fixed
his pump and blew up the tyre. The punctured state of it was soon
evident.

&lsqb;The punctured state of it was soon evident
said the Lamb.

There was; and when the number of punctures had been made manifest, it
was felt to be a special blessing that the cottage provided
It provided an odd sort of tea-and-hammy meal for the Lamb
and his brothers. This was paid for out of the fifteen shillings which
had been earned by Robert when he was a giant -- for the Lamb, it
appeared, had unfortunately no money about him. This was a great
disappointment for the others; but it is a thing that will happen, even
to the most grown-up of us. However, Robert had enough to eat, and that
was something. Quietly but persistently the miserable four took it in
turns to try and persuade the Lamb (or St. Maur) to spend the rest of
the day in the woods. There was not very much of the day left by the
time he had mended the eighteenth puncture. He looked up from the
completed work with a sigh of relief, and suddenly put his tie straight
he said briskly
His brothers and sisters were indeed rather dirty,
because, earlier in the day, the Lamb, in his infant state, had
sprinkled a good deal of garden soil over them. The grown-up Lamb's
voice was so tyrant-like, as Jane said afterwards, that they actually
retreated to the back garden, and left him with his little mustache and
his flannel suit to meet alone the young lady, who now came up the front
garden wheeling a bicycle.

The woman of the house came out, and the young lady spoke to her,-- the
Lamb raised his hat as she passed him,-- and the children could not hear
what she said, though they were craning round the corner and listening
with all their ears. They felt it to be
as Robert
said
When the Lamb spoke, in a languid voice heavy with politeness, they
heard well enough
he was saying
There was a stifled explosion of laughter and the grown-up Lamb
(otherwise Devereux) turned the tail of an angry eye in its direction
said the lady, looking at the Lamb. She looked
rather shy, but, as the boys put it, there didn't seem to be any
nonsense about her
whispered Cyril
Anthea murmured angrily
Jane doubtfully supposed so.

Now, the Lamb -- whom I must try to remember to call St. Maur -- was
examining the lady's bicycle and talking to her with a very grown-up
manner indeed. No one could possibly have supposed, to see and hear him,
that only that very morning he had been a chubby child of two years
breaking other people's Waterbury watches. Devereux (as he ought to be
called for the future) took out a gold watch when he had mended the
lady's bicycle, and all the hidden onlookers said
because it
seemed so unfair that the Baby, who had only that morning destroyed two
cheap but honest watches, should now, in the grown-upness to which
Cyril's folly had raised him, have a real gold watch -- with a chain and
seals!

Hilary (as I will now term him) withered his brothers and sisters with a
glance, and then said to the lady -- with whom he seemed to be quite
friendly
No one will ever know what answer the young lady intended to give to
this gallant offer, for, directly Anthea heard it made, she rushed out,
knocking against a swill pail, which overflowed in a turbid stream, and
caught the Lamb (I suppose I ought to say Hilary) by the arm. The others
followed, and in an instant the four dirty children were visible beyond
disguise
said Anthea to the lady, and she spoke with intense
earnestness
said St. Maur (as we will now call him) in a
terrible voice
the now reckless
Anthea went on
asked the lady, not unnaturally, while Devereux (as
I must term the grown-up Lamb) tried vainly to push Anthea away. The
others backed her up, and she stood solid as a rock
said Anthea
The lady had turned rather pale
she asked the grown-up Lamb
(sometimes called St. Maur in these pages
he lied miserably
cried Jane
she explained, turning to the lady, who with
trembling hands was now turning her bicycle towards the gate
Again and again the Lamb (Devereux, I mean) had tried to stop Jane's
eloquence, but Robert and Cyril held him, one by each leg, and no proper
explanation was possible. The lady rode hastily away, and electrified
her relatives at dinner by telling them of her escape from a family of
dangerous lunatics
she said.

When her bicycle had whizzed away down the road, Cyril spoke gravely
he said
The poor grown-up Lamb (St. Maur was really one of his Christian names)
seemed now too bewildered to resist
he said bitterly
said Anthea under her breath
In her heart she could hear the pretty, soft little loving voice of the
baby Lamb -- so different from the affected tones of the dreadful grown-up
Lamb (one of whose names was Devereux)-- saying
she said
she added in a whisper.

It was a gloomy party that went home through the soft evening. During
Anthea's remarks Robert had again made play with the pin and the bicycle
tyre, and the Lamb (whom they had to call St. Maur or Devereux or
Hilary) seemed really at last to have had his fill of bicycle-mending.
So the machine was wheeled.

The sun was just on the point of setting when they arrived at the White
House. The four elder children would have liked to linger in the lane
till the complete sunsetting turned the grown-up Lamb (whose Christian
names I will not further weary you by repeating) into their own dear
tiresome baby brother. But he, in his grown-upness, insisted on going
on, and thus he was met in the front garden by Martha.

Now you remember that, as a special favour, the Psammead had arranged
that the servants in the house should never notice any change brought
about by the wishes of the children. Therefore Martha merely saw the
usual party, with the baby Lamb, about whom she had been desperately
anxious all the afternoon, trotting beside Anthea, on fat baby legs,
while the children, of course, still saw the grown-up Lamb (never mind
what names he was christened by), and Martha rushed at him and caught
him in her arms, exclaiming
The grown-up Lamb (whose names shall now be buried in oblivion)
struggled furiously. An expression of intense horror and annoyance was
seen on his face. But Martha was stronger than he. She lifted him up and
carried him into the house. None of the children will ever forget that
picture. The neat grey-flannel-suited grown-up young man with the green
necktie and the little black mustache -- fortunately, he was slightly
built, and not tall -- struggling in the sturdy arms of Martha, who
bore him away helpless, imploring him, as she went, to be a good boy
now, and come and have his nice bremmink! Fortunately, the sun set as
they reached the doorstep, the bicycle disappeared, and Martha was seen
to carry into the house the real live darling sleepy two-year-old Lamb.
The grown-up Lamb (nameless henceforth) was gone for ever.

&lsqb;The grown-up Lamb struggled
said Cyril
said Anthea stoutly
said Jane
said Robert
said Anthea as the voice of the Lamb
came cooing through the open door, just as she had heard it in her heart
that afternoon
Probably the day would have been a greater success if Cyril had not been
reading _The Last of the Mohicans_. The story was running in his head at
breakfast, and as he took his third cup of tea he said dreamily
Everyone disagreed with him at the time and no one attached any
importance to the incident. But when they went down to the sand-pit to
ask for a hundred pounds in two-shilling pieces with Queen Victoria's
head on, to prevent mistakes -- which they had always felt to be a really
reasonable wish that must turn out well -- they found out that they had
done it again! For the Psammead, which was very cross and sleepy,
said
said Cyril
said the Sand-fairy, still more
disagreeably
said Robert
said the Psammead, beginning to burrow
said Jane sadly.

And now the odd thing was that no one could remember anyone's having
wished for anything that morning. The wish about the Red Indians had not
stuck in anyone's head. It was a most anxious morning. Everyone was
trying to remember what had been wished for, and no one could, and
everyone kept expecting something awful to happen every minute. It was
most agitating; they knew from what the Psammead had said, that they
must have wished for something more than usually undesirable, and they
spent several hours in most agonizing uncertainty. It was not till
nearly dinner-time that Jane tumbled over _The Last of the
Mohicans_,-- which had of course, been left face downwards on the
floor,-- and when Anthea had picked her and the book up she suddenly
said
and sat down flat on the carpet
said Jane
soothingly. It was almost impossible to believe that it could really
hurt people much to be scalped so far away as that
said Anthea
said Jane; but
she did not speak so hopefully as usual
said Anthea
Jane did not see at all. But she followed her sister meekly into
mother's bedroom.

Anthea lifted down the heavy water-jug -- it had a pattern of storks and
long grasses on it, which Anthea never forgot. She carried it into the
dressing-room, and carefully emptied the water out of it into the bath.
Then she took the jug back into the bedroom and dropped it on the floor.
You know how a jug always breaks if you happen to drop it by accident.
If you happen to drop it on purpose, it is quite different. Anthea
dropped that jug three times, and it was as unbroken as ever. So at last
she had to take her father's boot-tree and break the jug with that in
cold blood. It was heartless work.

Next she broke open the missionary-box with the poker. Jane told her
that it was wrong, of course, but Anthea shut her lips very tight and
then said --

&lsqb;She broke open the missionary-box with the poker
There was not very much in the missionary-box,-- only
seven-and-fourpence,-- but the girls between them had nearly four
shillings. This made over eleven shillings, as you will easily see.

Anthea tied up the money in a corner of her pocket-handkerchief
she said, and ran down to the farm. She knew that the farmer
was going into Rochester that afternoon. In fact it had been arranged
that he was to take the four children with him. They had planned this in
the happy hour when they believed that they we're going to get that
hundred pounds, in two-shilling pieces, out of the Psammead. They had
arranged to pay the farmer two shillings each for the ride. Now Anthea
hastily explained to him that they could not go, but would he take
Martha and the Baby instead? He agreed, but he was not pleased to get
only half-a-crown instead of eight shillings.

Then the girls ran home again. Anthea was agitated, but not flurried.
When she came to think it over afterwards, she could not help seeing
that she had acted with the most far-seeing promptitude, just like a
born general. She fetched a little box from her corner drawer, and went
to find Martha, who was laying the cloth and not in the best of tempers
said Anthea
said Martha, dumping down a
salt-cellar with a bang
said Anthea
said Martha
said Anthea
said Martha
This was so true that Anthea longed to deny it at once. Martha had no
business to know so much. But she held her tongue.

Martha set down the bread with a bang that made it jump off its
trencher
said Anthea softly
said Anthea eagerly
As she washed the unwilling Lamb and hurried him into his best clothes,
Anthea peeped out of the window from time to time; so far all was
well -- she could see no Red Indians. When with a rush and a scurry and
some deepening of the damask of Martha's complexion she and the Lamb had
been got off, Anthea drew a deep breath
she said, and, to Jane's horror, flung herself down on
the floor and burst into floods of tears. Jane did not understand at all
how a person could be so brave and like a general, and then suddenly
give way and go flat like an air-balloon when you prick it. It is better
not to go flat, of course, but you will observe that Anthea did not give
way till her aim was accomplished. She had got the dear Lamb out of
danger -- she felt certain that the Red Indians would be round the White
House or nowhere -- the farmer's cart would not come back till after
sunset, so she could afford to cry a little. It was partly with joy that
she cried, because she had done what she meant to do. She cried for
about three minutes, while Jane hugged her miserably and said at
five-second intervals
Then she jumped up, rubbed her eyes hard with the corner of her
pinafore, so that they kept red for the rest of the day, and started to
tell the boys. But just at that moment cook rang the dinner-bell, and
nothing could be said till they had been helped to minced beef. Then
cook left the room, and Anthea told her tale. But it is a mistake to
tell a thrilling tale when people are eating minced beef and boiled
potatoes. There seemed somehow to be something about the food that made
the idea of Red Indians seem flat and unbelievable. The boys actually
laughed, and called Anthea a little silly
said Cyril
said Jane briefly
Cyril went on
asked Anthea. She was feeling very cross. She knew she had acted with
nobility and discretion, and after that it was very hard to be called a
little silly, especially when she had the weight of a burglared
missionary-box and about seven-and-fourpence, mostly in coppers, lying
like lead upon her conscience.

There was a silence, during which cook took away the mincy plates and
brought in the pudding. As soon as she had retired, Cyril began again
he admitted
said Anthea
put in
Jane, anxious for peace
said Cyril tartly
said Robert; but Cyril couldn't. You see, he felt
in his heart that if there _should_ be Indians they would be entirely
his own fault, so he did not wish to believe in them. And trying not to
believe things when in your heart you are almost sure they are true, is
as bad for the temper as anything I know
he said
He had turned towards the window to point out the fineness of the
day -- the others turned too -- and a frozen silence caught at Cyril, and
none of the others felt at all like breaking it. For there, peering
round the corner of the window, among the red leaves of the Virginia
creeper, was a face -- a brown face, with a long nose and a tight mouth
and very bright eyes. And the face was painted in coloured patches. It
had long black hair, and in the hair were feathers!

Every child's mouth in the room opened, and stayed open. The pudding was
growing white and cold on their plates. No one could move.

Suddenly the feathered head was cautiously withdrawn, and the spell was
broken. I am sorry to say that Anthea's first words were very like a
girl
she said
The pudding had now definitely ceased to charm. Hastily wrapping their
portions in a _Spectator_ of the week before the week before last, they
hid them behind the crinkled paper stove-ornament, and fled upstairs to
reconnoitre and to hold a hurried council
said Cyril handsomely when they reached their mother's bedroom
said Anthea
No further trace of Indians, however, could be discerned from the
windows
said Robert
said Anthea, who was now generally
admitted to be the heroine of the day
said Jane
said Robert
said Cyril
said Robert
Earnest reconnoitring convinced them all that no Indians were in the
poultry-yard. Robert went. In five minutes he came back -- pale, but with
many feathers
he said
It is wonderful how like an Indian you can make yourself with blankets
and feathers and coloured scarves. Of course none of the children
happened to have long black hair, but there was a lot of black calico
that had been bought to cover school-books with. They cut strips of this
into a sort of fine fringe, and fastened it round their heads with the
amber-coloured ribbons off the girls' Sunday dresses. Then they stuck
turkeys' feathers in the ribbons. The calico looked very like long black
hair, especially when the strips began to curl up a bit
said Anthea
said Cyril
said Robert hastily
The red ochre cook uses for the kitchen bricks seemed to be about the
reddest thing in the house. The children mixed some in a saucer with
milk, as they had seen cook do for the kitchen floor. Then they
carefully painted each other's faces and hands with it, till they were
quite as red as any Red Indian need be -- if not redder.

They knew at once that they must look very terrible when they met Eliza
in the passage, and she screamed aloud. This unsolicited testimonial
pleased them very much. Hastily telling her not to be a goose, and that
it was only a game, the four blanketed, feathered, really and truly
Redskins went boldly out to meet the foe. I say boldly. That is because
I wish to be polite. At any rate, they went.

Along the hedge dividing the wilderness from the garden was a row of
dark heads, all highly feathered
whispered Anthea
With four wild war-whoops -- or as near them as white children could be
expected to go without any previous practice -- they rushed through the
gate and struck four war-like attitudes in face of the line of Red
Indians. These were all about the same height, and that height was
Cyril's
said Cyril through his
attitude.

Anthea knew they could, though she never knew how she came to know it.
She had a white towel tied to a walking-stick. This was a flag of truce,
and she waved it, in the hope that the Indians would know what it was.
Apparently they did -- for one who was browner than the others stepped
forward
he said in excellent English
he said
said Anthea, with a sudden inspiration
asked Golden Eagle, turning to the
others.

Cyril said he was the great chief Squirrel, of the Moning Congo tribe,
and, seeing that Jane was sucking her thumb and could evidently think of
no name for herself, he added
Golden Eagle inquired suddenly of Robert,
who, taken unawares, could only reply that he was Bobs -- leader of the
Cape Mounted Police
said Black Panther
murmured Cyril angrily. But Golden Eagle only
looked inquiringly at her
he said
said Anthea
She spoke bravely enough, but the hearts of all the children were
beating furiously, and their breath came in shorter and shorter gasps.
For the little real Red Indians were closing up round them -- coming
nearer and nearer with angry murmurs -- so that they were the centre of a
crowd of dark cruel faces
whispered Robert
said Anthea
She waved the towel, and the chief commanded his followers to stand
back. Then, charging wildly at the place where the line of Indians was
thinnest, the four children started to run. Their first rush knocked
down some half-dozen Indians, over whose blanketed bodies the children
leaped, and made straight for the sand-pit. This was no time for the
safe easy way by which carts go down -- right over the edge of the
sand-pit they went, among the yellow and pale purple flowers and dried
grasses, past the little bank martins' little front doors, skipping,
clinging, bounding, stumbling, sprawling, and finally rolling.

Yellow Eagle and his followers came up with them just at the very spot
where they had seen the Psammead that morning.

Breathless and beaten, the wretched children now awaited their fate.
Sharp knives and axes gleamed round them, but worse than these was the
cruel light in the eyes of Golden Eagle and his followers
he
concluded, turning with a bitter smile to the other Red Indians
shouted his followers; and at once a dozen ready
volunteers started to look for fuel. The four children, each held
between two strong little Indians, cast despairing glances round them.
Oh, if they could only see the Psammead
asked Anthea
desperately
Redskin opened his eyes at her
The Indians had formed a ring round the children, and now sat on the
ground gazing at their captives. There was a threatening silence.

Then slowly, by twos and threes, the Indians who had gone to look for
firewood came back, and they came back empty-handed. They had not been
able to find a single stick of wood for a fire! No one ever can, as a
matter of fact, in that part of Kent.

The children drew a deep breath of relief, but it ended in a moan of
terror. For bright knives were being brandished all about them. Next
moment each child was seized by an Indian; each closed its eyes and
tried not to scream. They waited for the sharp agony of the knife. It
did not come. Next moment they were released, and fell in a trembling
heap. Their heads did not hurt at all. They only felt strangely cool!
Wild war-whoops rang in their ears. When they ventured to open their
eyes they saw four of their foes dancing round them with wild leaps and
screams, and each of the four brandished in his hand a scalp of long
flowing black hair. They put their hands to their heads -- their own
scalps were safe! The poor untutored savages had indeed scalped the
children. But they had only, so to speak, scalped them of the black
calico ringlets!

&lsqb;Bright knives were being brandished all about them&rsqb;

The children fell into each other's arms, sobbing and laughing
chanted the chief
said
Robert, trying to rub some of the red ochre off his face and hands on to
his hair
the chant went on
Suddenly like a flash of lightning, the golden gravel shone all round
the four children instead of the dusky figures. For every single
Indian had vanished on the instant at their leader's word. The Psammead
must have been there all the time. And it had given the Indian chief his
wish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Martha brought home a jug with a pattern of storks and long grasses on
it. Also she brought back all Anthea's money
sighed Anthea, throwing her arms round
her
giggled Martha
asked
Anthea, aghast
Martha giggled more than ever
Anthea put the seven-and-fourpence back in the missionary-box, and
pasted paper over the place where the poker had broken it. She was very
glad to be able to do this, and she does not know to this day whether
breaking open a missionary-box is or is not a hanging matter!




CHAPTER XI (AND LAST). THE LAST WISH


Of course you, who see above that this is the eleventh (and last)
chapter, know very well that the day of which this chapter tells must be
the last on which Cyril, Anthea, Robert, and Jane will have a chance of
getting anything out of the Psammead, or Sand-fairy.

But the children themselves did not know this. They were full of rosy
visions, and, whereas on the other days they had often found it
extremely difficult to think of anything really nice to wish for, their
brains were now full of the most beautiful and sensible ideas
as Jane remarked afterwards
Everyone was up extra
early that morning, and these plans were hopefully discussed in the
garden before breakfast. The old idea of one hundred pounds in modern
florins was still first favourite, but there were others that ran it
close -- the chief of these being the "pony-each" idea. This had a great
advantage. You could wish for a pony each during the morning, ride it
all day, have it vanish at sunset, and wish it back again next day.
Which would be an economy of litter and stabling. But at breakfast two
things happened. First, there was a letter from mother. Granny was
better, and mother and father hoped to be home that very afternoon. A
cheer arose. And of course this news at once scattered all the
before-breakfast wish-ideas. For everyone saw quite plainly that the
wish of the day must be something to please mother and not to please
themselves
pondered Cyril
said Jane primly
Cyril rejoined
said Anthea in a warning voice
said Cyril
Just then Martha came in with a jug full of hot water for the
tea-pot -- and a face full of importance for the children
she said darkly
everybody asked
said Martha
said Jane as an agreeable thrill of horror ran down her back and
legs and out at her toes
said Martha
said Anthea
said Martha
said
Anthea when Martha had flounced off
said Robert
said Jane dreamily
said Cyril
The others gazed at her in horror
said Robert
But Cyril and Anthea exchanged gloomy glances. They remembered how
convincing the truth about the Psammead had been once before when told
to the police.

It was a day of misfortunes. Of course the Psammead could not be found.
Nor the jewels, though every one of the children searched the mother's
room again and again
Robert said
Cyril was very scornful
Another and exhaustive search of the sand-pit failed to reveal the
Psammead, so the children went back to the house slowly and sadly
said Anthea stoutly
said Cyril slowly
he turned
suddenly on the miserable Jane
said Jane
said Anthea
So they filled all the pots they could find with flowers -- asters and
zinnias, and loose-leaved late red roses from the wall of the
stableyard, till the house was a perfect bower.

And almost as soon as dinner was cleared away mother arrived, and was
clasped in eight loving arms. It was very difficult indeed not to tell
her all about the Psammead at once, because they had got into the habit
of telling her everything. But they did succeed in not telling her.

&lsqb;She was clasped in eight loving arms&rsqb;

Mother, on her side, had plenty to tell them -- about Granny, and Granny's
pigeons, and Auntie Emma's lame tame donkey. She was very delighted with
the flowery-boweryness of the house; and everything seemed so natural
and pleasant, now that she was home again, that the children almost
thought they must have dreamed the Psammead.

But, when mother moved towards the stairs to go up to her bedroom and
take off her bonnet, the eight arms clung round her just as if she only
had two children, one the Lamb and the other an octopus
said Anthea
said Cyril
said Robert
said Jane helplessly
said mother briskly
So up she went, and the children, following her, exchanged glances of
gloomy foreboding.

Mother took off her bonnet,-- it was a very pretty hat, really, with
white roses in it,-- and when she had taken it off she went to the
dressing-table to do her pretty hair.

On the table between the ring-stand and the pin-cushion lay a green
leather case. Mother opened it
she cried. It was a ring, a large pearl with shining
many-lighted diamonds set round it
mother asked, trying it on her wedding finger, which it fitted
beautifully
said each of the children truthfully
mother said
said Anthea, who knew Martha would not be able to
see the ring. But when Martha was asked, of course she denied putting
the ring there, and so did Eliza and cook.

Mother came back to her bedroom, very much interested and pleased about
the ring. But, when she opened the dressing-table drawer and found a
long case containing an almost priceless diamond necklace, she was more
interested still, though not so pleased. In the wardrobe, when she went
to put away her
she found a tiara and several brooches, and
the rest of the jewellery turned up in various parts of the room during
the next half-hour. The children looked more and more uncomfortable, and
now Jane began to sniff.

Mother looked at her gravely
she said
said Jane obediently
said Jane obediently
said her mother sharply
Cyril interrupted. Then he went on desperately
All drew a deep breath. They were saved
asked
mother, not unreasonably
said Cyril
said mother distractedly
asked Robert,
knowing that his father would not be home before sunset
cried mother.
"All this" was the heap of jewel-cases on the bed. They put them all in
the wardrobe, and mother locked it. Then mother called Martha
she said
answered Martha
She stopped
said her mistress kindly
Martha burst into heavy sobs
asked her mistress
said Martha
said the children's mother
When Martha had gone, the children clung round their mother
cried Anthea
It was truly awful. Here was an innocent man accused of robbery through
that silly wish of Jane's, and it was absolutely useless to tell the
truth. All longed to, but they thought of the straws in the hair and the
shrieks of the other frantic maniacs, and they could not do it
asked the mother feverishly
All the children sobbed
Mother took not the faintest notice. When she had set her mind on a
thing she always went straight through with it; she was rather like
Anthea in this respect
she said, sticking on her hat with long sharp
violet-headed pins
And she locked her bedroom door and went off with the key in her pocket.

The children could not help admiring the dashing and decided way in
which she had acted. They thought how useful she would have been in
organising escape from some of the tight places in which they had found
themselves of late in consequence of their ill-timed wishes
said Cyril
He savagely made a paper boat and began to float it in the bath, as he
had been told to do.

Robert went into the garden and sat down on the worn yellow grass, with
his miserable head between his helpless hands.

Anthea and Jane whispered together in the passage downstairs, where the
cocoanut matting was -- with the hole in it that you always caught your
foot in if you were not careful. Martha's voice could be heard in the
kitchen,-- grumbling loud and long
said Anthea
she added, by a candid
after-thought
asked Jane
said Jane flatly
Anthea had been shaking her head gloomily -- now she stopped shaking it so
suddenly that it really looked as though she were pricking up her ears
asked Jane
cried Anthea dramatically
At a brisk trot she led the way to the sand-pit. Oh, joy!-- there was the
Psammead, basking in a golden sandy hollow and preening its whiskers
happily in the glowing afternoon sun. The moment it saw them it whisked
round and began to burrow -- it evidently preferred its own company to
theirs. But Anthea was too quick for it. She caught it by its furry
shoulders gently but firmly, and held it
said the Psammead
But Anthea held him fast
she said breathlessly
it said
asked Anthea gently, and her voice trembled
with excitement
it said
Anthea risked it and held on
she said
The Psammead was much moved
it said in a tearful voice
Its voice cracked with
emotion, and the last "don't" was a squeak.

Anthea set it down gently on the sand
she said soothingly
said the Psammead
The Psammead blew itself out, collapsed, and said
said Anthea more slowly
said the creature after the proper interval
said Jane suddenly
said the Psammead; but its voice was weaker
asked Anthea considerately
said the Psammead
it said
asked Jane
Anthea repeated the Psammead's wish, and it blew itself out to a larger
size than they had yet seen it attain
it said as it collapsed
said Jane
said the Psammead faintly
it said in a weak voice
said the two girls together.

&lsqb;It burrowed, and disappeared, scratching fiercely to the
last&rsqb;

Then for the last time in this story they saw the Psammead blow itself
out and collapse suddenly. It nodded to them, blinked its long snail's
eyes, burrowed, and disappeared, scratching fiercely to the last, and
the sand closed over it
said Jane
said Anthea
Anthea found Cyril glooming over his paper boats, and told him. Jane
told Robert. The two tales were only just ended when mother walked in,
hot and dusty. She explained that as she was being driven into Rochester
to buy the girls' autumn school-dresses the axle had broken, and but for
the narrowness of the lane and the high soft hedges she would have been
thrown out. As it was, she was not hurt, but she had had to walk home
she said
Jane whispered
said Anthea, who had been to ask after the state
of the kettle.

As the servants sat at their tea, Beale the gamekeeper dropped in. He
brought the welcome news that Lady Chittenden's diamonds had not been
lost at all. Lord Chittenden had taken them to be re-set and cleaned,
and the maid who knew about it had gone for a holiday. So that was all
right
said Jane wistfully
as they walked in the garden, while mother was putting the Lamb to bed
said Cyril
said Anthea
said Robert earnestly.

They did see it again, of course, but not in this story. And it was not
in a sand-pit either, but in a very, very, very different place. It was
in a ---- But I must say no more
</text>
