<text>
The circumstances which I am about to relate to my juvenile readers
took place in the year 1647. By referring to the history of England, of
that date, they will find that King Charles the First, against whom the
Commons of England had rebelled, after a civil war of nearly five
years, had been defeated, and was confined as a prisoner at Hampton
Court. The Cavaliers, or the party who fought for King Charles, had all
been dispersed and the Parliamentary army under the command of Cromwell
were beginning to control the Commons.

It was in the month of November in this year that King Charles,
accompanied by Sir John Berkely, Ashburnham, and Legg, made his escape
from Hampton Court, and rode as fast as the horses could carry them
toward that part of Hampshire which led to the New Forest. The king
expected that his friends had provided a vessel in which he might
escape to France, but in this he was disappointed. There was no vessel
ready, and after riding for some time along the shore, he resolved to
go to Titchfield, a seat belonging to the Earl of Southampton. After a
long consultation with those who attended him, he yielded to their
advice, which was, to trust to Colonel Hammond, who was governor of the
Isle of Wight for the Parliament, but who was supposed to be friendly
to the king. Whatever might be the feelings of commiseration of Colonel
Hammond toward a king so unfortunately situated, he was firm in his
duties toward his employers, and the consequence was that King Charles
found himself again a prisoner in Carisbrook Castle.

But we must now leave the king and retrace history to the commencement
of the civil war. A short distance from the town of Lymington, which is
not far from Titchfield, where the king took shelter, but on the other
side of Southampton Water, and south of the New Forest, to which it
adjoins, was a property called Arnwood, which belonged to a Cavalier of
the name of Beverley. It was at that time a property of considerable
value, being very extensive, and the park ornamented with valuable
timber; for it abutted on the New Forest, and might have been supposed
to have been a continuation of it. This Colonel Beverley, as we must
call him, for he rose to that rank in the king's army, was a valued
friend and companion of Prince Rupert, and commanded several troops of
cavalry. He was ever at his side in the brilliant charges made by this
gallant prince, and at last fell in his arms at the battle of Naseby.
Colonel Beverley had married into the family of the Villiers, and the
issue of his marriage was two sons and two daughters; but his zeal and
sense of duty had induced him, at the commencement of the war, to leave
his wife and family at Arnwood, and he was fated never to meet them
again. The news of his death had such an effect upon Mrs. Beverley,
already worn with anxiety on her husband's account, that a few months
afterward she followed him to an early tomb, leaving the four children
under the charge of an elderly relative, till such time as the family
of the Villiers could protect them; but, as will appear by our history,
this was not at that period possible. The life of a king and many other
lives were in jeopardy, and the orphans remained at Arnwood, still
under the care of their elderly relation, at the time that our history
commences.

The New Forest, my readers are perhaps aware, was first inclosed by
William the Conqueror as a royal forest for his own amusement -- for in
those days most crowned heads were passionately fond of the chase; and
they may also recollect that his successor, William Rufus, met his
death in this forest by the glancing of an arrow shot by Sir Walter
Tyrrell. Since that time to the present day it has continued a royal
domain. At the period of which we are writing, it had an establishment
of verderers and keepers, paid by the crown, amounting to some forty or
fifty men. At the commencement of the civil war they remained at their
posts, but soon found, in the disorganized state of the country, that
their wages were no longer to be obtained; and then, when the king had
decided upon raising an army, Beverley, who held a superior office in
the Forest, enrolled all the young and athletic men who were employed
in the Forest, and marched them away with him to join the king's army.
Some few remained, their age not rendering their services of value, and
among them was an old and attached servant of Beverley, a man above
sixty years of age, whose name was Jacob Armitage, and who had obtained
the situation through Colonel Beverley's interest. Those who remained
in the Forest lived in cottages many miles asunder, and indemnified
themselves for the non-payment of their salaries by killing the deer
for sale and for their own subsistence.

The cottage of Jacob Armitage was situated on the skirts of the New
Forest, about a mile and a half from the mansion of Arnwood; and when
Colonel Beverley went to join the king's troops, feeling how little
security there would be for his wife and children in those troubled
times, he requested the old man, by his attachment to the family, not
to lose sight of Arnwood, but to call there as often as possible to see
if he could be of service to Mrs. Beverley. The colonel would have
persuaded Jacob to have altogether taken up his residence at the
mansion, but to this the old man objected. He had been all his life
under the greenwood tree, and could not bear to leave the forest. He
promised the colonel that he would watch over his family, and ever be
at hand when required; and he kept his word. The death of Colonel
Beverley was a heavy blow to the old forester, and he watched over Mrs.
Beverley and the orphans with the greatest solicitude; but when Mrs.
Beverley followed her husband to the tomb, he then redoubled his
attentions, and was seldom more than a few hours at a time away from
the mansion. The two boys were his inseparable companions, and he
instructed them, young as they were, in all the secrets of his own
calling. Such was the state of affairs at the time that King Charles
made his escape from Hampton Court; and I now shall resume my narrative
from where it was broken off.

As soon as the escape of Charles I. was made known to Cromwell and the
Parliament, troops of horse were dispatched in every direction to the
southward, toward which the prints of the horses' hoofs proved that he
had gone. As they found that he had proceeded in the direction of the
New Forest, the troops were subdivided and ordered to scour the forest,
in parties of twelve to twenty, while others hastened down to
Southampton, Lymington, and every other seaport or part of the coast
from which the king might be likely to embark. Old Jacob had been at
Arnwood on the day before, but on this day he had made up his mind to
procure some venison, that he might not go there again empty-handed;
for Miss Judith Villiers was very partial to venison, and was not slow
to remind Jacob, if the larder was for many days deficient in that
meat. Jacob had gone out accordingly; he had gained his leeward
position of a fine buck, and was gradually nearing him by stealth -- now
behind a huge oak tree, and then crawling through the high fern, so as
to get within shot unperceived, when on a sudden the animal, which had
been quietly feeding, bounded away and disappeared in the thicket. At
the same time Jacob perceived a small body of horse galloping through
the glen in which the buck had been feeding. Jacob had never yet seen
the Parliamentary troops, for they had not during the war been sent
into that part of the country, but their iron skull-caps, their buff
accouterments, and dark habiliments assured him that such these must
be; so very different were they from the gayly-equipped Cavalier
cavalry commanded by Prince Rupert. At the time that they advanced,
Jacob had been lying down in the fern near to some low black-thorn
bushes; not wishing to be perceived by them, he drew back between the
bushes, intending to remain concealed until they should gallop out of
sight; for Jacob thought
But Jacob was disappointed in his expectations of the troops riding
past him; on the contrary, as soon as they arrived at an oak tree
within twenty yards of where he was concealed, the order was given to
halt and dismount; the sabers of the horsemen clattered in their iron
sheaths as the order was obeyed, and the old man expected to be
immediately discovered; but one of the thorn bushes was directly
between him and the troopers, and effectually concealed him. At last
Jacob ventured to raise his head and peep through the bush; and he
perceived that the men were loosening the girths of their black horses,
or wiping away the perspiration from their sides with handfuls of fern.

A powerfully-formed man, who appeared to command the others, was
standing with his hand upon the arched neck of his steed, which
appeared as fresh and vigorous as ever, although covered with foam and
perspiration
said he
observed another of the men
replied an active-looking young man
Jacob Armitage, who listened to the conversation, immediately
recognized the young man in question. He was one of those who had
joined the king's army with the other verderers and keepers. It pained
him much to perceive that one who had always been considered a frank,
true-hearted young man, and who left the forest to fight in defense of
his king, was now turned a traitor, and had joined the ranks of the
enemy; and Jacob thought how much better it had been for James
Southwold, if he had never quitted the New Forest, and had not been
corrupted by evil company
thought Jacob
said the leader of
the troop
replied James
Southwold
replied the leader
replied Southwold
replied the leader
observed another
replied the leader
observed another
replied the leader
replied Southwold
The troopers sprung upon their saddles, and went off at a hard trot,
Southwold leading the way. Jacob remained among the fern until they
were out of sight, and then rose up. He looked for a short time in the
direction in which the troopers had gone, stooped down again to take up
his gun, and then said
and the old
forester threw his gun over his shoulder, and hastened away in the
direction of his own cottage
thought Jacob, as he went along
thought Jacob.

As perhaps my readers may ask the same question, they must know that a
large proportion of the Parliamentary army had at this time assumed the
name of Levelers, in consequence of having taken up the opinion that
every man should be on an equality, and property should be equally
divided. The hatred of these people to any one above them in rank or
property, especially toward those of the king's party, which mostly
consisted of men of rank and property, was unbounded, and they were
merciless and cruel to the highest degree, throwing off much of that
fanatical bearing and language which had before distinguished the
Puritans. Cromwell had great difficulty in eventually putting them
down, which he did at last accomplish by hanging and slaughtering many.
Of this Jacob knew nothing; all he knew was, that Arnwood was to be
burned down that night, and that it would be necessary to remove the
family. As for obtaining assistance to oppose the troopers, that he
knew to be impossible. As he thought of what must take place, he
thanked God for having allowed him to gain the knowledge of what was to
happen, and hastened on his way. He had been about eight miles from
Arnwood when he had concealed himself in the fern. Jacob first went to
his cottage to deposit his gun, saddled his forest pony, and set off
for Arnwood. In less than two hours the old man was at the door of the
mansion; it was then about three o'clock in the afternoon, and being in
the month of November, there was not so much as two hours of daylight
remaining
thought Jacob, as be rung the bell
Before Jacob is admitted to the presence of Miss Judith Villiers, we
must give some account of the establishment at Arnwood. With the
exception of one male servant, who officiated in the house and stable
as his services might be required, every man of the household of
Colonel Beverley had followed the fortunes of their master, and as none
had returned, they, in all probability had shared his fate. Three
female servants, with the man above mentioned, composed the whole
household. Indeed, there was every reason for not increasing the
establishment, for the rents were either paid in part, or not paid at
all. It was generally supposed that the property, now that the
Parliament had gained the day, would be sequestrated, although such was
not yet the case; and the tenants were unwilling to pay, to those who
were not authorized to receive, the rents which they might be again
called upon to make good. Miss Judith Villiers, therefore, found it
difficult to maintain the present household; and although she did not
tell Jacob Armitage that such was the case, the fact was, that very
often the venison which he brought to the mansion was all the meat that
was in the larder. The three female servants held the offices of cook,
attendant upon Miss Villiers, and housemaid; the children being under
the care of no particular servant, and left much to themselves. There
had been a chaplain in the house, but he had quitted before the death
of Mrs. Beverley, and the vacancy had not been filled up; indeed, it
could not well be, for the one who left had not received his salary for
many months, and Miss Judith Villiers, expecting every day to be
summoned by her relations to bring the children and join them, sat in
her high chair waiting for the arrival of this summons, which, from the
distracted state of the times, had never come.

As we have before said, the orphans were four in number; the two eldest
were boys, and the youngest were girls. Edward, the eldest boy, was
between thirteen and fourteen years old; Humphrey, the second, was
twelve; Alice, eleven; and Edith, eight. As it is the history of these
young persons which we are about to narrate, we shall say little about
them at present, except that for many months they had been under little
or no restraint, and less attended to. Their companions were Benjamin,
the man who remained in the house, and old Jacob Armitage, who passed
all the time he could spare with them. Benjamin was rather weak in
intellect, and was a source of amusement rather than otherwise. As for
the female servants, one was wholly occupied with her attendance on
Miss Judith, who was very exacting, and had a high notion of her own
consequence. The other two had more than sufficient employment; as,
when there is no money to pay with, every thing must be done at home.
That, under such circumstances, the boys became boisterous and the
little girls became romps, is not to be wondered at: but their having
become so was the cause of Miss Judith seldom admitting them into her
room. It is true that they were sent for once a day, to ascertain if
they were in the house, or in existence, but soon dismissed and left to
their own resources. Such was the neglect to which these young orphans
was exposed. It must, however, be admitted, that this very neglect made
them independent and bold, full of health from constant activity, and
more fitted for the change which was so soon to take place
said Jacob, as the other came to the door
said Benjamin, grinning
In a few minutes, Jacob was ushered up by Agatha into Miss Judith
Villiers's apartment. The old lady was about fifty years of age, very
prim and starched, sitting in a high-backed chair, with her feet upon a
stool, and her hands crossed before her, her black mittens reposing
upon her snow-white apron.

The old forester made his obeisance
observed Miss Judith
replied Jacob
replied the lady
Agatha, with this injunction, bounced out of the room, slamming-to the
door so as to make Miss Judith start from her seat
exclaimed Miss Judith
Jacob then entered into the detail of what he had overheard that
morning, when he fell in with the troopers, concluding with the
information, that the mansion would be burned down that very night. He
then pointed out the necessity of immediately abandoning the house, as
it would be impossible to oppose the troopers
said Miss Judith, calmly
replied the old lady, stiffly
Jacob left the room, satisfied with the permission to remove the
children. He knew that it was useless to argue with Miss Judith, who
was immovable when once she had declared her intentions. He was
debating in his own mind whether he should acquaint the servants with
the threatened danger; but he had no occasion to do so, for Agatha had
remained at the door while Jacob was communicating the intelligence,
and as soon as he had arrived at that portion of it by which she
learned that the mansion was to be burned down that night, had run off
to the kitchen to communicate the intelligence to the other servants
exclaimed the cook, as Jacob
came in
exclaimed Agatha
exclaimed the housemaid, who was
admired by Benjamin
Benjamin, who was in the kitchen with the maids at the time that Jacob
entered, made a sign significant of consent, and went away to the
stable. Agatha went up to her mistress in a state of great
perturbation, and the cook also hurried away to her bedroom
thought Jacob
Jacob then went in search of
them, and found them playing in the garden. He called the two boys to
him, and told them to follow him
said he
said Humphrey
But Edward Beverley required more persuasion to abandon the house; at
last, old Jacob prevailed, and the clothes were put up in bundles as
fast as they could collect them
observed Jacob
said Humphrey
inquired Edward
replied Edward
replied Jacob
To this Edward consented. The pony was soon loaded, and the little
girls, who were still playing in the garden, were called in by
Humphrey. They were told that they were going to pass the night in the
cottage, and were delighted at the idea
said Jacob
continued Jacob, taking
him aside
This latter ruse of Jacob's succeeded. Edward promised that he would
not leave his sisters, and it wanted but a few minutes of twilight when
the little party quitted the mansion of Arnwood. As they went out of
the gates they were passed by Benjamin, who was trotting away with
Martha behind him on a pillion, holding a bundle as large as herself.
Not a word was exchanged, and Benjamin and Martha were soon out of
sight
said Alice
Edward made no reply, but Humphrey said
Jacob, as soon as he had seen the children on their way, returned to
the kitchen, where he found Agatha and the cook collecting their
property, evidently bent upon a hasty retreat
said Jacob,
thoughtfully
Agatha consented, and as soon as she had taken up the lamp, for it was
now quite dark, Jacob was once more introduced
said Jacob
replied the old lady, haughtily
Jacob
still hesitated
said the old lady; and the
forester, finding all remonstrance useless, went out, and obeyed her
last commands by shutting the door after him.

Jacob found Agatha and the other maid in the court-yard; he took up
their packages, and, as he promised, accompanied them to Gossip
Allwood, who kept a small ale-house about a mile distant
said Agatha, as
they walked along, her fears for herself having up to this time made
her utterly forgetful of them
said the cook, half
crying.

Now Jacob, knowing that the children of such a Malignant as Colonel
Beverley would have sorry treatment if discovered, and knowing also
that women were not always to be trusted, determined not to tell them
how they were disposed of. He therefore replied
replied Agatha
replied Jacob
The conversation here ended, and in due time they arrived at the inn.
Jacob had just put the bundles down on the table, when the clattering
of horses' hoofs was heard. Shortly afterward, the troopers pulled
their horses up at the door, and dismounted. Jacob recognized the party
he had met in the forest, and among them Southwold. The troopers called
for ale, and remained some time in the house, talking and laughing with
the women, especially Agatha, who was a very good-looking girl. Jacob
would have retreated quietly, but he found a sentinel posted at the
door to prevent the egress of any person. He reseated himself, and
while he was listening to the conversation of the troopers he was
recognized by Southwold, who accosted him. Jacob did not pretend not to
know him, as it would have been useless; and Southwold put many
questions to him as to who were resident at Arnwood. Jacob replied that
the children were there, and a few servants, and he was about to
mention Miss Judith Villiers, when a thought struck him -- he might save
the old lady
said Jacob
Southwold nodded
significantly, and squeezed Jacob's hand
Southwold again squeezed Jacob's hand,
and left him. Shortly afterward the order was given to mount, and the
troopers set off.

Armitage followed slowly and unobserved. They arrive at the mansion and
surrounded it. Shortly afterward he perceived the glare of torches, and
in a quarter of an hour more thick smoke rose up in the dark but clear
sky; at last the flames burst forth from the lower windows of the
mansion, and soon afterward they lighted up the country round to some
distance
thought Jacob; and he turned to bend his hasty steps
toward his own cottage, when he heard the galloping of a horse and
violent screams; a minute afterward James Southwold passed him with the
old lady tied behind him, kicking and struggling as hard as she could.
Jacob smiled as he thought that he had by his little stratagem saved
the old woman's life, for that Southwold imagined that she was King
Charles dressed up as an old woman was evident; and he then returned as
fast as he could to the cottage.

In half an hour Jacob had passed through the thick woods which were
between the mansion and his own cottage, occasionally looking back, as
the flames of the mansion rose higher and higher, throwing their light
far and wide. He knocked at the cottage-door; Smoker, a large dog
cross-bred between the fox and blood-hound, growled till Jacob spoke to
him, and then Edward opened the door
said Edward
replied Jacob
Edward beheld the
flames and fierce light between the trees and was silent
exclaimed Edward, clasping his hands
And so Jacob had. He expected that
the old woman would have been burned, and then nobody would have known
of the existence of the children; he forgot, when he planned to save
her, that she knew where the children were
said
Edward, shaking his fist
cried Edward
Edward slowly followed Jacob into the cottage. His little heart was
full. He was a proud boy and a good boy, but the destruction of the
mansion had raised up evil thoughts in his heart -- hatred to the
Covenanters, who had killed his father and now burned the
property -- revenge upon them (how he knew not); but his hand was ready
to strike, young as he was. He lay down on the bed, but he could not
sleep. He turned and turned again, and his brain was teeming with
thoughts and plans of vengeance. Had he said his prayers that night he
would have been obliged to repeat
At last, he fell fast asleep, but his dreams were
wild, and he often called out during the night and woke his brother and
sisters
The next morning, as soon as Jacob had given the children their
breakfast, he set off toward Arnwood. He knew that Benjamin had stated
his intention to return with the horse and see what had taken place,
and he knew him well enough to feel sure that he would do so. He
thought it better to see him if possible, and ascertain the fate of
Miss Judith. Jacob arrived at the still smoking ruins of the mansion,
and found several people there, mostly residents within a few miles,
some attracted by curiosity, others busy in collecting the heavy masses
of lead which had been melted from the roof, and appropriating them to
their own benefit; but much of it was still too hot to be touched, and
they were throwing snow on it to cool it, for it had snowed during the
night. At last, Jacob perceived Benjamin on horseback riding leisurely
toward him, and immediately went up to him
replied
Benjamin
replied Benjamin
rejoined Jacob
replied Benjamin
said Jacob
replied Benjamin
inquired Jacob
Jacob, who was anxious, on account of the intelligence he had received
of the troopers being in the forest, to return to the cottage, shook
hands with Benjamin, and hastened away
thought Jacob, as he
wended his way
And the old forester continued his journey in deep
thought.

We may here observe that, blood-thirsty as many of the Levelers were,
we do not think that Jacob Armitage had grounds for the fears which he
expressed and felt; that is to say, we believe that he might have made
known the existence of the children to the Villiers family, and that
they would never have been harmed by any body. That by the burning of
the mansion they might have perished in the flames, had they been in
bed, as they would have been at that hour, had he not obtained
intelligence of what was about to be done, is true; but that there was
any danger to them on account of their father having been such a stanch
supporter of the king's cause, is very unlikely, and not borne out by
the history of the times: but the old forester thought otherwise; he
had a hatred of the Puritans, and their deeds had been so exaggerated
by rumor, that he fully believed that the lives of the children were
not safe. Under this conviction, and feeling himself bound by his
promise to Colonel Beverley to protect them, Jacob resolved that they
should live with him in the forest, and be brought up as his own
grandchildren. He knew that there could be no better place for
concealment; for, except the keepers, few people knew where his cottage
was; and it was so out of the usual paths, and so imbosomed in lofty
trees, that there was little chance of its being seen, or being known
to exist. He resolved, therefore, that they should remain with him till
better times; and then he would make known their existence to the other
branches of the family, but not before
thought he
With such thoughts running in his head, Jacob arrived at the cottage,
and found the children outside the door, watching for him. They all
hastened to him, and the dog rushed before them, to welcome his master
inquired Alice, as she took Jacob's
hand
They all entered the cottage, which consisted of one large room in
front, and two back rooms for bedrooms. There was also a third bedroom,
which was behind the other two, but which had not any furniture in it
said Jacob
said Alice
said Jacob
said Edward, who took a pail, and went out to the spring.

The potatoes were peeled and washed by the children -- Jacob and Edward
cut the venison into pieces -- the iron pot was cleaned; and then the
meat and potatoes put with water into the pot, and placed on the fire
said Humphrey
And Humphrey took up a knife, and cut away most manfully, although he
was obliged to wipe his eyes with his sleeve very often
said Jacob
cried they all
The children set about their tasks, and Humphrey cried out, as he very
often did
While the dinner was cooking, Jacob amused the children by showing them
how to put things in order; the floor was swept, the hearth was made
tidy. He shewed Alice how to wash out a cloth, and Humphrey how to dust
the chairs. They all worked merrily, while little Edith stood and
clapped her hands.

But just before dinner was ready, Edward came in and said
Jacob went out, and observed that
they were coming in a direction that would lead near to the cottage.

He walked in, and, after a moment's thought, he said
Jacob took the children into the bedroom, and, removing the upper
dress, which would have betrayed that they were not the children of
poor people, put them in bed, and covered them up to the chins with the
clothes. Edward had put on the old hunting-shirt, which came below his
knees, and stood with a mug of water in his hand by the bedside of the
two girls. Jacob went to the outer room, to remove the platters laid
out for dinner; and he had hardly done so when he heard the noise of
the troopers, and soon afterward a knock at the cottage-door
said Jacob
said the leader of the troop, entering the
door
replied Jacob
replied Jacob
The man, who was now joined by others, commenced his search. Jacob
opened all the doors of the rooms, and they passed through. Little
Edith shrieked when she saw them; but Edward patted her, and told her
not to be frightened. The troopers, however, took no notice of the
children; they searched thoroughly, and then came back to the front
room
said one of the troopers
said another
continued he, taking off the lid of the pot
replied Jacob
replied Jacob
The troopers took him at his word; they sat down to the table, and very
soon the whole contents of the kettle had disappeared. Having satisfied
themselves, they got up, told him that his rations were so good that
they hoped to call again; and, laughing heartily, they mounted their
horses, and rode away
said Jacob
As soon as they were out of sight, Jacob
called to Edward and the children to get up again, which they soon did.
Alice put on Edith's frock, Humphrey put on his jacket, and Edward
pulled off the hunting-shirt
said Jacob, coming in from the door
said Humphrey, looking at the empty pot and
dirty platters
said Jacob
observed Humphrey
said Jacob
said Edith
And so they did as soon as it was cooked; but they were very hungry
before they sat down
said Humphrey with his mouth full
There were no more visits to the cottage that day, and they all went to
bed, and slept soundly.

The next morning, Jacob, who was most anxious to learn the news,
saddled the pony, having first given his injunctions to Edward how to
behave in case any troopers should come to the cottage. He told him to
pretend that the children were in bed with the small-pox, as they had
done the day before. Jacob then traveled to Gossip Allwood's, and he
there learned that King Charles had been taken prisoner, and was at the
Isle of Wight, and that the troopers were all going back to London as
fast as they came. Feeling that there was now no more danger to be
apprehended from them, Jacob set off as fast as he could for Lymington.
He went to one shop and purchased two peasant dresses which he thought
would fit the two boys, and at another he bought similar apparel for
the two girls. Then, with several other ready-made articles, and some
other things which were required for the household, he made a large
package, which he put upon the pony, and, taking the bridle, set off
home, and arrived in time to superintend the cooking of the dinner,
which was this day venison-steaks fried in a pan, and boiled potatoes.

When dinner was over, he opened his bundle, and told the little ones
that, now they were to live in a cottage, they ought to wear cottage
clothes, and that he had bought them some to put on, which they might
rove about the woods in, and not mind tearing them. Alice and Edith
went into the bedroom, and Alice dressed Edith and herself, and came
out quite pleased with their change of dress. Humphrey and Edward put
theirs on in the sitting-room, and they all fitted pretty well, and
certainly were very becoming to the children
said Jacob
added Jacob.

Edward nodded his head; and Jacob telling the children that they might
now go out of the cottage and play, they all set off, quite delighted
with clothes which procured them their liberty.

We must now describe the cottage of Jacob Armitage, in which the
children have in future to dwell. As we said before, it contained a
large sitting-room, or kitchen, in which was a spacious hearth and
chimney, table, stools, cupboards, and dressers: the two bedrooms which
adjoined it were now appropriated, one for Jacob and the other for the
two boys; the third, or inner bedroom, was arranged for the two girls,
as being more retired and secure. But there were outhouses belonging to
it: a stall, in which White Billy, the pony, lived during the winter; a
shed and pigsty rudely constructed, with an inclosed yard attached to
them; and it had, moreover, a piece of ground of more than an acre,
well fenced in to keep out the deer and game, the largest portion of
which was cultivated as a garden and potato-ground, and the other,
which remained in grass, contained some fine old apple and pear-trees.
Such was the domicile; the pony, a few fowls, a sow and two young pigs,
and the dog Smoker, were the animals on the establishment. Here Jacob
Armitage had been born -- for the cottage had been built by his
grandfather -- but he had not always remained at the cottage. When young,
he felt an inclination to see more of the world, and had for several
years served in the army. His father and brother had lived in the
establishment at Arnwood, and he was constantly there as a boy The
chaplain of Arnwood had taken a fancy to him, and taught him to
read -- writing he had not acquired. As soon as he grew up, he served, as
we have said, in the troop commanded by Colonel Beverley's father; and,
after his death, Colonel Beverley had procured him the situation of
forest ranger, which had been held by his father, who was then alive,
but too aged to do duty. Jacob Armitage married a good and devout young
woman, with whom he lived several years, when she died, without
bringing him any family; after which, his father being also dead, Jacob
Armitage had lived alone until the period at which we have commenced
this history
The old forester lay awake the whole of this night, reflecting how he
should act relative to the children; he felt the great responsibility
that he had incurred, and was alarmed when he considered what might be
the consequences if his days were shortened. What would become of
them -- living in so sequestered a spot that few knew even of its
existence -- totally shut out from the world, and left to their own
resources? He had no fear, if his life was spared, that they would do
well; but if he should be called away before they had grown up and were
able to help themselves, they might perish. Edward was not fourteen
years old; it was true that he was an active, brave boy, and thoughtful
for his years; but he had not yet strength or skill sufficient for what
would be required. Humphrey, the second, also promised well; but still
they were all children
Acting upon this resolution, Jacob, as soon as the children were
dressed, and in the sitting-room, opened his Bible, which he had put on
the table, and said
said Humphrey
replied Edith
they all replied; and then Jacob Armitage read a chapter in the
Bible, after which they all knelt down and said the Lord's prayer. As
this was done every morning and every evening, I need not repeat it
again. Jacob then showed them again how to clean the house, and
Humphrey and Alice soon finished their work under his directions; and
then they all sat down to breakfast, which was a very plain one, being
generally cold meat, and cakes baked on the embers, at which Alice was
soon very expert; and little Edith was very useful in watching them for
her, while she busied herself about her other work. But the venison was
nearly all gone; and after breakfast Jacob and Edward, with the dog
Smoker, went out into the woods. Edward had no gun, as he only went out
to be taught how to approach the game, which required great caution;
indeed Jacob had no second gun to give him, if he had wished so to do
They proceeded through the wood for more than a mile,
when Jacob made a sign to Edward, and dropped down into the fern,
crawling along to an open spot, where, at some distance, were a stag
and three deer grazing. The deer grazed quietly, but the stag was ever
and anon raising up his head and snuffing the air as he looked round,
evidently acting as a sentinel for the females.

The stag was perhaps a long quarter of a mile from where they had
crouched down in the fern. Jacob remained immovable till the animal
began to feed again, and then he advanced, crawling through the fern,
followed by Edward and the dog, who dragged himself on his stomach
after Edward. This tedious approach was continued for some time, and
they had neared the stag to within half the original distance, when the
animal again lifted up his head and appeared uneasy. Jacob stopped and
remained without motion. After a time the stag walked away, followed by
the does, to the opposite side of the clear spot on which they had been
feeding, and, to Edward's annoyance, the animal was half a mile from
them. Jacob turned round and crawled into the wood, and when he knew
that they were concealed, he rose on his feet and said
said Edward
They proceeded at a quick walk through the forest, and in half an hour
had gained the side where the deer were feeding. When about three
hundred yards from the game, Jacob again sunk down on his hands and
knees, crawling from bush to bush, stopping whenever the stag raised
his head, and advancing again when it resumed feeding; at last they
came to the fern at the side of the wood, and crawled through it as
before, but still more cautiously as they approached the stag. In this
manner they arrived at last to within eighty yards of the animal, and
then Jacob advanced his gun ready to put it to his shoulder, and, as he
cocked the lock, raised himself to fire. The click occasioned by the
cocking of the lock roused up the stag instantly, and he turned his
head in the direction from whence the noise proceeded; as he did so
Jacob fired, aiming behind the animal's shoulder: the stag made a
bound, came down again, dropped on his knees, attempted to run, and
fell dead, while the does fled away with the rapidity of the wind.

Edward started up on his legs with a shout of exultation. Jacob
commenced reloading his gun, and stopped Edward as he was about to run
up to where the animal lay
said Jacob
replied Edward
replied Jacob
Jacob then cut the throat of the animal, and afterward cut off its head
and took out its bowels
said Jacob, as he wiped his hunting-knife on
the coat of the stag
Edward immediately assented, and Jacob, desiring Smoker to go home, set
about flaying and cutting up the animal for its more convenient
transportation. In an hour and a half, Edward, attended by Smoker,
returned with the pony, on whose back the chief portion of the venison
was packed. Jacob took a large piece on his own shoulders, and Edward
carried another, and Smoker, after regaling himself with a portion of
the inside of the animal, came after them. During the walk home, Jacob
initiated Edward into the terms of venery and many other points
connected with deer-stalking, with which we shall not trouble our
readers. As soon as they arrived at the cottage, the venison was hung
up, the pony put in the stable, and then they sat down to dinner with
an excellent appetite after their long morning's walk. Alice and
Humphrey had cooked the dinner themselves, and it was in the pot,
smoking hot, when they returned; and Jacob declared he never ate a
better mess in his life. Alice was not a little proud of this, and of
the praises she received from Edward and the old forester. The next
day, Jacob stated his intention of going to Lymington to dispose of a
large portion of the venison, and bring back a sack of oatmeal for
their cakes. Edward asked to accompany him, but Jacob replied
Jacob went off to Lymington as he had proposed, and returned late at
night with White Billy well loaded; he had a sack of oatmeal, some
spades and hoes, a saw and chisels, and other tools; two scythes and
two three-pronged forks; and when Edward came to meet him, he put into
his hand a gun with a very long barrel
replied Edward
Edward, who had often fired a gun before, proved the next morning that
he had a very good eye; and, after two or three hours' practice, hit
the mark at a hundred yards almost every time
said Edward, overjoyed at
his success
replied Jacob
replied Edward.

The winter now set in with great severity, and they remained almost
altogether within doors. Jacob and the boys went out to get firewood,
and dragged it home through the snow
said Humphrey
replied Jacob
But if they remained in-doors during the inclement weather, they were
not idle. Jacob took this opportunity to instruct the children in every
thing. Alice learned how to wash and how to cook. It is true, that
sometimes she scalded herself a little, sometimes burned her fingers;
and other accidents did occur, from the articles employed being too
heavy for them to lift by themselves; but practice and dexterity
compensated for want of strength, and fewer accidents happened every
day. Humphrey had his carpenters' tools; and although at first he had
many failures, and wasted nails and wood, by degrees he learned to use
his tools with more dexterity, and made several little useful articles.
Little Edith could now do something, for she made and baked all the
oatmeal cakes, which saved Alice a good deal of time and trouble in
watching them. It was astonishing how much the children could do, now
that there was no one to do it for them; and they had daily instruction
from Jacob. In the evening Alice sat down with her needle and thread to
mend the clothes; at first they were not very well done, but she
improved every day. Edith and Humphrey learned to read while Alice
worked, and then Alice learned; and thus passed the winter away so
rapidly, that, although they had been five months at the cottage, it
did not appear as if they had been there as many weeks. All were happy
and contented, with the exception, perhaps, of Edward, who had fits of
gloominess, and occasionally showed signs of impatience as to what was
passing in the world, of which he remained in ignorance.

That Edward Beverley had fits of gloominess and impatience is not
surprising. Edward had been brought up as the heir of Arnwood; and a
boy at a very early age imbibes notions of his position, if it promises
to be a high one. He was not two miles from that property which by
right was his own. His own mansion had been reduced to ashes -- he
himself was hidden in the forest; and he could but not feel his
position. He sighed for the time when the king's cause should be again
triumphant, and his arrival at that age when he could in person support
and uphold the cause. He longed to be in command, as his father had
been -- to lead his men on to victory -- to recover his property, and to
revenge himself on those who had acted so cruelly toward him. This was
human nature; and much as Jacob Armitage would expostulate with him,
and try to divert his feelings into other channels -- long as he would
preach to him about forgiveness of injuries, and patience until better
times should come, Edward could not help brooding over these thoughts,
and if ever there was a breast animated with intense hatred against the
Puritans, it was that of Edward Beverley. Although this was to be
lamented, it could not create surprise or wonder in the old forester.
All he could do was, as much as possible to reason with him, to soothe
his irritated feelings, and by constant employment try to make him
forget for a time the feelings of ill-will which he had conceived.

One thing was, however, sufficiently plain to Edward, which was, that
whatever might be his wrongs, he had not the power at present to
redress them; and this feeling, perhaps, more than any other, held him
in some sort of check; and as the time when he might have an
opportunity appeared far distant, even to his own sanguine imagination,
so by degrees did he contrive to dismiss from his thoughts what it was
no use to think about at present
As we have before said, time passed rapidly; with the exception of one
or two excursions after venison, they remained in the cottage, and
Jacob never went to Lymington. The frost had broken up, the snow had
long disappeared, and the trees began to bud. The sun became powerful,
and in the month of May the forest began again to look green
said Jacob Armitage, one day at breakfast
They had walked four or five miles when they came upon the slot or
track of a deer, but Jacob's practiced eye pointed out to Edward that
it was the slot of a young one, and not worth following. He explained
to Edward the difference in the hoof-marks and other signs by which
this knowledge was gained, and they proceeded onward until they found
another slot, which Jacob declared to be that of a warrantable
stag -- that is, one old enough to kill and to be good venison
This took them about a mile farther, when they arrived at a small
thicket of thorns about an acre in extent
They walked round the thicket, and could not find any slot or track by
which the stag had left the covert, and Jacob pronounced that the
animal must be hid in it
Jacob then left Edward, and went down to the lee side of the covert,
where he entered it with Smoker. Edward was stationed behind a
thorn-bush, which grew a few yards clear of the covert, and he soon
heard the creaking of the branches.

A short time elapsed, and a fine stag came out at a trot; he turned his
head, and was just bounding away when Edward fired, and the animal
fell. Remembering the advice of Jacob, Edward remained where he was, in
silence reloading his piece, and was soon afterward joined by Jacob and
the dog
said the forester, in a low voice; and, covering
his forehead to keep off the glare of the sun, he looked earnestly at a
high brake between some thorn-trees, about a half a mile to the
windward
replied Edward
replied Edward
Jacob, ordering Smoker to remain, then set off. He had to make a
circuit of three miles to get to the spot where the thorns extended
from the forest, and Edward saw no more of him, although he strained
his eyes, until the stag sprung out, and the gun was discharged. Edward
perceived that the stag was not killed, but severely wounded, running
toward the covert near which he was hid
said he, as he
cocked his gun. The stag came within shot, and was coming nearer, when,
seeing Edward, it turned. Edward fired, and then cheered on the dog,
who sprung after the wounded animal, giving tongue, as he followed him.
Edward, perceiving Jacob hastening toward him, waited for him
cried Jacob
They both caught up their guns and ran as fast as they could, when, as
they entered the wood, they heard the dog at bay
They hastened on another quarter of a mile, when they found that the
stag had fallen on his knees, and had been seized by the throat by
Smoker
Jacob advanced from behind the stag, and cut his throat with his
hunting-knife
said Edward
It was late in the evening before they had made their two trips and
taken all the venison home, and very tired were they before it was
safely housed. Edward was delighted with his success, but not more so
than was old Jacob. The next morning, Jacob set off for Lymington, with
the pony loaded with venison, which he sold, as well as two more loads
which he promised to bring the next day, and the day after. He then
looked out for a cart, and was fortunate in finding a small one, just
fitted to the size of the pony, who was not tall but very strong, as
all the New Forest ponies are. He also procured harness, and then put
Billy in the cart to draw him home; but Billy did not admire being put
in a cart, and for some time was very restive, and backed and reared,
and went every way but the right; but by dint of coaxing and leading,
he at last submitted, and went straight on; but then the noise of the
cart behind him frightened him, and he ran away. At last, having tired
himself out, he thought that he might as well go quietly in harness, as
he could not get out of it; and he did so, and arrived safe at the
cottage. Humphrey was delighted at the sight of the cart, and said that
now they should get on well. The next day, Jacob contrived to put all
the remainder of the venison in the cart, and White Billy made no more
difficulty; he dragged it all to Lymington, and returned with the cart
as quietly and cleverly as if he had been in harness all his life
said
Jacob
replied Edward, in wrath
Edward remained very grave for some time
said he at
last
Here the conversation ended, and they went to bed.

This was now a busy time at the cottage. The manure had to be got out
of the stable and pigsties, and carried out to the potato-ground and
garden; the crops had to be put in, and the cart was now found
valuable. After the manure had been carried out and spread, Edward and
Humphrey helped Jacob to dig the ground, and then to put in the seed.
The cabbage-plants of last year were then put out, and the turnips and
carrots sown. Before the month was over, the garden and potato-field
were cropped, and Humphrey took upon himself to weed and keep it clean.
Little Edith had also employment now, for the hens began to lay eggs,
and as soon as she heard them cackling, she ran for the eggs and
brought them in; and before the month was over, Jacob had set four hens
upon eggs. Billy, the pony, was now turned out to graze in the forest;
he came home every night of his own accord
said Humphrey, who took the command
altogether over the farm
cried Alice
said
Humphrey to Jacob
replied Jacob
said Humphrey
replied Jacob
replied Humphrey
replied Humphrey
The crops were now all up, and as the days began to be long, the work
became comparatively light and easy. Humphrey was busy making a little
wheelbarrow for Edith, that she might barrow away the weeds as he hoed
them up; and at last this great performance was completed, much to the
admiration of all, and much to his own satisfaction. Indeed, when it is
recollected that Humphrey had only the hand-saw and ax, and that he had
to cut down the tree; and then to saw it into plank, it must be
acknowledged that it required great patience and perseverance even to
make a wheelbarrow; but Humphrey was not only persevering, but was full
of invention. He had built up a hen-house with fir-poles, and made the
nests for the hens to lay and hatch in, and they now had between forty
and fifty chickens running about. He had also divided the pigsty, so
that the sow might be kept apart from the other pigs; and they expected
very soon to have a litter of young pigs. He had transplanted the wild
strawberries from the forest, and had, by manure, made them large and
good; and he had also a fine crop of onions in the garden, from seed
which Jacob had bought at Lymington; now Humphrey was very busy cutting
down some poles in the forest to make a cow-house, for he declared that
he would have a cow somehow or another. June arrived, and it was time
to mow down grass to make into hay for the winter, and Jacob had two
scythes. He showed the boys how to use them, and they soon became
expert; and as there was plenty of long grass at this time of the year,
and they could mow when they pleased, they soon had White Billy in full
employment carrying the hay home. The little girls helped to make it,
for Humphrey had made them two rakes. Jacob thought that there was hay
enough made, but Humphrey said that there was enough for the pony, but
not enough for the cow
replied he
So Humphrey continued to mow and make hay, while Edward and Jacob went
out for venison. After all the hay was made and stacked, Humphrey found
out a method of thatching with fern, which Jacob had never thought of;
and when that was done, they commenced cutting down fern for fodder.
Here again Humphrey would have twice as much as Jacob had ever cut
before, because he wanted litter for the cow. At last it became quite a
joke between him and Edward, who, when he brought home more venison
than would keep in the hot weather, told Humphrey that the remainder
was for the cow. Still Humphrey would not give up the point, and every
morning and evening he would be certain to be absent an hour or two,
and it was found out he was watching the herd of wild cattle who were
feeding: sometimes they were very near, at others a long way off. He
used to get up into the trees, and examine them as they passed under
him without perceiving him. One night Humphrey returned very late, and
the next morning he was off before daylight. Breakfast was over, and
Humphrey did not make his appearance, and they could not tell what was
the matter. Jacob felt uneasy, but Edward laughed, and said
Hardly had Edward said these words when in came Humphrey, red with
perspiration
Humphrey disappeared, and Jacob said to Edward
replied Edward
Humphrey now drove up the pony and cart, and they set off
said Edward
replied Jacob
replied Edward
replied Jacob
replied Humphrey
On their arrival, they found that the herd were feeding at a
considerable distance from the copse, which was, perhaps, as well
said Jacob
They advanced cautiously into the thicket, following the track of the
heifer, and at last came upon her. Apparently she had not calved more
than an hour, and was licking the calf, which was not yet on its legs.
As soon as the animal perceived Jacob and Edward, she shook her head,
and was about to run at them; but Jacob told Smoker to seize her, and
the dog flew at her immediately. The attack of the dog drove back the
heifer quite into the thicket, and as the dog bounded round her,
springing this way and that way to escape her horns, the heifer was
soon separated from the calf
said Jacob, advancing between the
heifer and the calf
The boys put their arms under the stomach of the calf, and carried it
away. The heifer was at first too busy defending herself against the
dog to perceive that the calf was gone; when she did, Jacob called
Smoker to him, so as to bring him between the heifer and where the boys
were going out of the thicket. At last the heifer gave a loud bellow,
and rushed out of the thicket in pursuit of her calf, checked by
Smoker, who held on to her ear, and sometimes stopped her from
advancing
said Jacob, who now went back to help the boys
replied Edward
replied Jacob
Smoker, at this command, came bounding out of the copse, followed by
the heifer, lowing most anxiously. Her lowing was responded to by the
calf in the cart, and she ran wildly up to it
said Jacob
Humphrey, who had the reins, drove off; the heifer followed, at one
time running at the dog, at another putting her head almost into the
hind part of the cart; but the lowing of the heifer was now answered by
deeper tones, and Jacob said
A few minutes afterward they perceived, at about a quarter of a mile
behind them, not the whole herd, but a single bull, who was coming up
at a fast trot, with his tail in the air, and tossing his head, lowing
deeply in answer to the heifer
said Jacob
cried Jacob, perceiving that the dog was about to attack the
bull.

Smoker obeyed, and the bull advanced till he was within a hundred yards
Humphrey stopped the pony and the bull continued to advance, but seemed
puzzled who to attack, unless it was the dog. As soon as the bull was
within sixty yards, Edward fired, and the animal fell down on its
knees, tearing the ground with its horns
said Jacob
The cart drove on, followed by the heifer, but no more of the wild herd
made their appearance, and they very soon gained the cottage
said Jacob
replied Jacob
Alice and Edith hearing this, and Edward also crying out to them, made
a hasty retreat to the cottage. Humphrey then backed the cart against
the paling of the yard, so as to enable Edward to get on the other side
of it, ready to open the gate. Smoker was set at the heifer, and, as
before, soon engaged her attention; so that the gate was opened and the
cart drove in, and the gate closed again, before the heifer could
follow
As soon as Humphrey was ready with the rope, he gave the word, and the
gate was opened; the cow ran in immediately, and, hearing her calf
bleat, went into the cow-house, the door of which was shut upon her. A
minute afterward Humphrey cried out to them to haul upon the rope,
which they did
said Humphrey from the inside
They went in and found the heifer drawn close to the side of the
cow-house by the rope which was round her horns, and unable to move her
head
As soon as the ends of her horns were sawed off, Humphrey took another
piece of rope, which he fastened securely round her horns, and then
made the other end fast to the side of the building, so that the animal
could move about a little and eat out of the crib
said Humphrey
They then went out, shutting the cow-house door
said Jacob
replied Edward
Alice and Edith were very anxious to see the cow, and especially to see
the calf; but Humphrey told them that they must not go near till he
went with them, and then they should see it. After dinner was over,
Jacob and Edward took their guns, and Humphrey put Billy in the cart
and followed them. They found the bull where they left him, standing
quite still; he tossed his head when they approached him, which they
did carefully, but he did not attempt to run at them
said Jacob
Edward did so, and the animal fell dead. They went up to the carcass,
which they estimated to weigh at least fifty stone
said Edward
replied Jacob
said Humphrey
added Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Jacob
The skinning and quartering took up the whole afternoon, and Billy was
heavy laden when he drew his cart home. The next day Jacob went to
Lymington to sell the bull and the skin, and returned home well
satisfied with the profit he had made. He had procured, as Humphrey
requested, some milk-pans, a small churn, and milk-pail out of the
proceeds, and had still money left. Humphrey told them that he had not
been to see the heifer yet, as he thought it better not
said he
We may as well here say, that the next morning Humphrey went in to the
heifer. At first she tossed about, and was very unruly. He gave her
some grass, and patted her and coaxed her for a long while, till at
last she allowed him to touch her gently. Every day for a fortnight he
brought her food, and she became quieter every day, till at last if he
went up to her, she never pushed with her horns. The calf became quite
tame, and as the heifer perceived that the calf was quiet, she became
more quiet herself. After the fortnight, Humphrey would not allow the
heifer to receive any thing except from the hand of Alice, that the
animal might know her well; and when the calf was a month old, Humphrey
made the first attempt to milk her. This was resisted at first by
kicking, but in the course of ten days she gave down her milk. Humphrey
then let her loose for a few days to run about the yard, still keeping
the calf in the cow-house, and putting the heifer in to her at night,
milking her before the calf was allowed to suck. After this he
adventured upon the last experiment, which was to turn her out of the
yard to graze in the forest. She went away to some distance, and he was
fearful that she would join the herd, but in the evening she came back
again to her calf. After this he was satisfied, and turned her out
every day, and they had no further trouble with her. He would not,
however, wean the calf till the winter time, when she was shut up in
the yard and fed on hay. He then weaned the calf, which was a cow calf,
and they had no more trouble with the mother. Alice soon learned to
milk her, and she became very tractable and good-tempered. Such was the
commencement of the dairy at the cottage
said Humphrey
replied Edward
said Edward
replied
Jacob
said Alice
replied Humphrey
said Alice
It was arranged that Edward should stay at home to assist in collecting
the acorns for the pigs, and that Jacob should cross the forest alone
to see after the puppies, and he set off the next morning. He was away
two days, and then returned; said that he had a promise of two puppies,
and that he had chosen them; they were of the same breed as Smoker, but
they were only a fortnight old, and could not be taken from the mother
yet awhile, so that he had arranged to call again when they were three
or four months old, and able to follow him across the forest. Jacob
also said that he was very near being hurt by a stag that had made at
him -- for at that season of the year the stags were very dangerous and
fierce -- but that he had fired, and struck off one of the animal's
horns, which made it turn
replied Edward
replied Jacob
said Edith
said Humphrey, who was very busy making
a bird-cage for Edith, having just finished one for Alice
said Edward
said Jacob
replied Humphrey
Jacob put into the cart the next day about forty of the chickens which
Alice had reared; the others were kept to increase the number in the
poultry-yard. They had cost little or nothing bringing up; for when
quite young, they only had a little oatmeal cake, and afterward, with
the potatoes which were left, they found themselves, as fowls can
always do when they have a great range of ground to go over.

Jacob came back at sunset, with all the articles. He brought a new suit
for Alice and Edith, with some needles and thread, and worsted, and
gave her some money which was left from the sale of the chickens, after
he had made the purchases. He also bought a new suit for Edward and
Humphrey, and a gun, which was much approved of by Humphrey, as it had
a larger bore and carried a heavier bullet than either Jacob's or
Edward's; and there was a white kitten for Alice and Edith. There was
no news, only that the Levelers had opposed Cromwell, and he had put
them down with the other troops, and Jacob said that it appeared that
they were all squabbling and fighting with each other.

Time passed; the month of November came on without any thing to disturb
the daily employments of the family in the forest: when one evening,
Jacob, who had returned from hunting with Edward (the first time they
had been out since the season commenced) told Alice that she must do
all she could to give them a good dinner the next day, as it was to be
a feast
replied
Jacob
replied Alice
Alice made all the preparations, and had for dinner the next day a
piece of baked venison, a venison stew, a pair of roast chickens, and
an apple pie -- which, for them, was a very grand dinner indeed. And it
was very well dressed: for Jacob had taught her to cook, and by degrees
she improved upon Jacob's instruction. Humphrey was quite as clever at
it as she was; and little Edith was very useful, as she plucked the
fowls, and watched the things while they were cooking
said Jacob, after saying grace
replied
Edward
said Jacob
replied Humphrey
said Edward
replied Alice
replied
Edith
said Jacob
Edward smiled, and said
and Jacob was so much moved as he said
this, that a tear was seen rolling down his furrowed cheek.

The second winter now came on. Jacob and Edward went out hunting
usually about twice a-week; for the old forester complained of
stiffness and rheumatism, and not feeling so active as he used to be.
Humphrey now accompanied Edward perhaps one day in the week, but not
more, and they seldom returned without having procured venison, for
Edward knew his business well, and no longer needed the advice of
Jacob. As the winter advanced, Jacob gave up going out altogether. He
went to Lymington to sell the venison and procure what was necessary
for the household, such as oatmeal and flour, which were the principal
wants, but even these journeys fatigued him, and it was evident that
the old man's constitution was breaking fast. Humphrey was always busy.
One evening he was making something which puzzled them all. They asked
him what it was for, but he would not tell them
said he as he was bending a
hazel stick
said Humphrey, letting his hazel stick spring
up, after he had bent it down
said Edith
replied Humphrey, putting
away his tools and his materials in a corner
The next day Jacob took the venison into Lymington, and brought back
the salt and other articles required. The pigs were then killed, and
salted down under Jacob's directions; his rheumatism did not allow him
to assist, but Humphrey and Edward rubbed in the salt, and Alice took
the pieces of pork away to the tub when they were finished. Humphrey
had been out the day before with the unknown article he had been so
long about. The next morning he went out early before breakfast and
when he returned, he brought a hare in his hand, which he laid on the
table
said he
They were very much pleased with Humphrey's success, and he was not a
little proud of it
We ought to have told the reader that Jacob had more than once brought
home an old book or two which he had picked up, or had given him, and
that these had been occasionally looked into by Humphrey and Edward,
but only now and then, as they had too much to do to find much time for
reading, although sometimes, in the evening, they did take them up.
When it is considered how young they were, and what a practical and
busy life they led, this can not be surprising
Humphrey was now after something else. He had made several traps, and
brought in rabbits and hares almost every day. He had also made some
bird-traps, and had caught two goldfinches for Alice and Edith, which
they put in the cages he had made for them. But, as we said, Humphrey
was about something else; he was out early in the morning, and in the
evening, when the moon was up, he came home late, long after they had
all gone to bed; but they never knew why, nor would he tell them. A
heavy fall of snow took place, and Humphrey was more out than ever. At
last, about a week after the snow had laid on the ground, one morning
he came in with a hare and rabbit in his hand, and said
said Humphrey, as they went out
Humphrey went on till they came close to a clump of large trees, and
then brought them to a pitfall which he had dug, about six feet wide
and eight feet long, and nine feet deep
said Humphrey
They looked down into the pit and perceived a young bull in it. Smoker,
who was with him, began to bark furiously at it
said Humphrey
replied Humphrey
said Edward
replied Humphrey
said Edward
Edward shot his ball through the forehead of the animal, which fell
dead: but they were then obliged to go home for the pony and cart, and
ropes to get the animal out of the pit, and a hard job they had of it
too; but the pony helped them, and they did get it out at last
said Humphrey
said Jacob, who was skinning the bull
They loaded the cart with the skin and quarters of the animal, and then
drove home
said Jacob
said Humphrey
replied Edward.

During this winter, which passed rapidly way very few circumstances of
any consequence occurred. Old Jacob was more or less confined to the
cottage by the rheumatism, and Edward hunted either by himself or
occasionally with Humphrey. Humphrey was fortunate enough to take a
bull and a cow calf in his pitfall, both of them about a year or
fifteen months old, and by a rude invention of his, by way of windlass,
contrived, with the assistance of Edward, to hoist them uninjured out
of the pit. They were put into the yard, and after having been starved
till they were tamed, they followed the example of the heifer and calf,
and became quite tame. These were an important addition to their stock,
as may well be imagined. The only mishap under which they labored was,
old Jacob's confinement to the cottage, which, as the winter advanced,
prevented him from going to Lymington; they could not, therefore, sell
any venison; and Humphrey, by way of experiment, smoked some venison
hams, which he hung up with the others. There was another point on
which they felt anxiety, which was, that Jacob could not cross the
forest to get the puppies which had been promised them, and the time
was passed, for it was now January, when he was to have called for
them. Edward and Humphrey pressed the old man very hard to let one of
them go, but the only answer they could obtain was
At last, finding that he got worse instead of better, he
consented that Edward should go. He gave directions how to proceed, the
way he was to take, and a description of the keeper's lodge; cautioned
him to call himself by the name of Armitage, and describe himself as
his grandson. Edward promised to obey Jacob's directions, and the next
morning he set off, mounted upon White Billy, with a little money in
his pocket in case he should want it
said Humphrey, as he walked by the side
of the pony
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
Humphrey returned home to attend his farmyard, while Edward continued
his journey through the forest. Some estimate of the character of the
two boys may be formed from the above conversation. Edward was
courageous and impetuous hasty in his resolves, but still open to
conviction. Brought up as the heir to the property, he felt, more than
Humphrey could be expected to do, the mortification of being left a
pauper, after such high prospects in his early days: his vindictive
feelings against the opposite party were therefore more keen, and his
spirit mounted more from the conviction under which he labored. His
disposition was naturally warlike, and this disposition had been
fostered by his father when he was a child -- still a kinder heart or a
more generous lad never existed.

Humphrey was of a much more subdued and philosophical temperament, not
perhaps so well calculated to lead as to advise; there was great
prudence in him united with courage, but his was a passive courage
rather than an active one -- a courage which, if assailed, would defend
itself valiantly, but would be wary and reflective before it would
attack. Humphrey had not that spirit of chivalry possessed by Edward.
He was a younger son, and had to earn, in a way, his own fortune, and
he felt that his inclinations were more for peace than strife.
Moreover, Humphrey had talents which Edward had not -- a natural talent
for mechanics, and an inquisitive research into science, as far as his
limited education would permit him. He was more fitted for an engineer
or an agriculturist than for a soldier, although there is no doubt that
he would have made a very brave soldier, if such was to have become his
avocation.

For kindness and generosity of nature he was equal to his brother, and
this was the reason why an angry word never passed between them; for
the question between them was not which should have his way, but which
should give up most to the wishes of the other. We hardly need say,
that there never were two brothers who were more attached, and who so
mutually respected each other
Edward put the pony to a trot, and in two hours was on the other side
of the New Forest. The directions given to him by Jacob were not
forgotten, and before it was noon he found himself at the gate of the
keeper's house. Dismounting, and hanging the bridle of the pony over
the rail, he walked through a small garden, neatly kept, but, so early
in the year, not over gay, except that the crocus and snowdrops were
peeping. He rapped at the door with his knuckles, and a girl of about
fourteen, very neatly dressed, answered the summons
said Edward
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied the young girl
In a minute or two the girl returned, saying that her father begged
that he would walk in, and he would speak with him. Edward bowed, and
followed the young girl, who led the way to a room, in which was seated
a man dressed after the fashion of the Roundheads of the day. His
steeple-crowned hat lay on the chair, with his sword beneath it. He was
sitting at a table covered with papers
said the girl; and having said this, she
crossed the room and took a seat by the side of the fire. The man, or
we should rather say gentleman -- for he had the appearance of one,
notwithstanding the somber and peculiar dress he wore, continued to
read a letter which he had just opened; and Edward, who feared himself
the prisoner of a Roundhead, when he only expected to meet a keeper,
was further irritated by the neglect shown toward him by the party.
Forgetting that he was, by his own assertion, not Edward Beverley, but
the relative of one Jacob Armitage, he colored up with anger as he
stood at the door. Fortunately the time that it took the other party to
read through the letter gave Edward also time for recollecting the
disguise under which he appeared; the color subsided from his cheeks,
and he remained in silence, occasionally meeting the look of the little
girl, who, when their eyes met, immediately withdrew her glance
at last said the gentleman at the
table
said the other party, referring to a list on the table
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied the gentleman
replied Edward
replied Edward
continued he, putting his finger close to some
writing opposite the name on the list
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied the other, in a severe tone
Edward stepped up to the table, and very quietly took up the paper and
read it
said he, laying it
down
replied the
gentleman, looking up to him with some astonishment
replied
Edward, with warmth
replied Edward
replied the gentleman
Edward smiled, and looking at the young girl, said
The young girl laughed, and said
replied Edward, grinding his teeth
and looking wildly
Edward remained silent: this admission on the part of the Roundhead
prevented an explosion on his part. He felt that all were not so bad as
he had imagined. After a long pause, he said
said he, smiling
replied the Roundhead
Edward, who felt indignant at being dismissed to the kitchen, nodded
his head and smiled upon the little girl, and left the room
thought he, as he went along the passage
thought he
Edward returned by the way he came, went out of the front door and
through the garden to where the pony was made fast, and led him away in
search of a stable. He found one behind the house, and filling the rack
with hay, returned to the house and seated himself at a porch which was
at the door which led to the back premises, for the keeper's house was
large and commodious. Edward was in deep thought, when he was roused by
the little girl, the daughter of the newly-appointed intendant of the
forest, who said
replied Edward
replied the girl, laughing.

Edward followed her into the kitchen, and she soon produced a cold fowl
and a venison pasty, which she placed on the table; she then went out
and returned with a jug of ale
said she, putting it on the table
replied Edward
Edward then set to
with a good appetite at the viands which had been placed before him,
and had just finished a hearty meal when Patience Heatherstone again
came in and said
replied Edward
replied the girl
added she in a low tone
Having said
this, she left the room
Edward, having finished his meal, and had a good pull at the jug of
ale, which was a liquor he had not tasted for a long while, rose from
the table and went out of the back door, and found there Oswald
Partridge. He accosted him, stating the reason for his coming over to
him
replied Edward
replied Oswald
replied Edward
said
Edward
Edward then related the conversation
said Oswald
replied Edward
continued Oswald
The keeper nodded adieu to Edward, who left him to go to the stable for
the pony. Edward saddled White Billy, and rode away across the forest
with the dogs trotting at the pony's heels.

Edward had much to reflect upon as he rode back to the cottage. He felt
that his position was one of more difficulty than before. That old
Jacob Armitage would not last much longer, he was convinced; even now
the poor old man was shrunk away to a skeleton with pain and disease.
That the livelihood to be procured from the forest would be attended
with peril, now that order had been restored, and the forest was no
longer neglected, was certain; and he rejoiced that Humphrey had, by
his assiduity and intelligence, made the farm so profitable as it
promised to be. Indeed he felt that, if necessary, they could live upon
the proceeds of the farm, and not run the risk of imprisonment by
stalking the deer. But he had told the intendant that he considered the
game as the king's property, and he was resolved that he would at all
events run the risk, although he would no longer permit Humphrey so to
do
thought Edward
With these thoughts and
many others he amused himself until, late in the evening, he arrived at
the cottage. He found all in bed except Humphrey, who had waited for
him, and to whom he narrated all that had passed. Humphrey said little
in reply; he wished to think it over before he gave any opinion. He
told Edward that Jacob had been very ill the whole of the day, and had
requested Alice to read the Bible to him during the evening.

The next morning Edward went to Jacob, who for the last ten days had
altogether kept his bed, and gave him the detail of what had happened
at the keeper's lodge
replied Jacob
Edward was much distressed to perceive the change which had taken place
in old Jacob. He was evidently much worse; but Edward had no idea how
much worse he was. Edward assisted Humphrey in the farm, and in the
evening again went to Jacob, and then told him of the arrangement he
had made to meet Oswald Partridge on the following morning
said Jacob
Early the next morning Edward set off to the appointed rendezvous with
Oswald Partridge. The Clump Royal, as it was called, from the peculiar
size and beauty of the oaks, was about seven miles from the cottage;
and at the hour and time indicated, Edward, with his gun in his hand,
and Smoker lying beside him, was leaning against one of those monarchs
of the forest. He did not wait long. Oswald Partridge, similarly
provided, made his appearance, and Edward advanced to meet him
said Edward
replied Oswald
replied Edward
said Edward
replied Oswald; and they walked for about half an hour
said Edward, in a low voice, pointing to
the marks
They
proceeded, and Edward pointed out to Oswald the slot of the stag into
the thicket. They then walked round, and found no marks of the animal
having left his lair
whispered Edward; and Oswald made a sign for Edward to
enter the thicket, while he walked to the other side. Edward entered
the thicket cautiously. In the center he perceived, through the trees,
a small cleared spot, covered with high fern, and felt certain that the
stag was lying there. He forced his way on his knees till he had a
better view of the place, and then cocked his gun. The noise induced
the stag to move his antlers, and discover his lair. Edward could just
perceive the eye of the animal through the heath; he waited till the
beast settled again, took steady aim, and fired. At the report of the
gun another stag sprung up and burst away. Oswald fired and wounded it,
but the animal made off, followed by the dogs. Edward, who hardly knew
whether he had missed or not, but felt almost certain that he had not,
hastened out of the thicket to join in the chase; and, as he passed
through the fern patch, perceived that his quarry lay dead. He then
followed the chase, and, being very fleet of foot, soon came up with
Oswald, and passed him without speaking. The stag made for a swampy
ground, and finally took to the water beyond it, and stood at bay.
Edward then waited for Oswald, who came up with him
said Edward
Oswald, eager in the chase, hastened up to where the dogs and stag were
in the water, and put a bullet through the animal's head.

Edward went to him, assisted him to drag the stag out of the water, and
then Oswald cut its throat, and proceeded to perform the usual offices
said Oswald
said Edward
said Oswald
As soon as Oswald had done his work, he hung the quarters of the animal
on an oak-tree, and went back with Edward
said Oswald, as they walked along
On their arrival at the spot, Oswald found that Edward had put the ball
right into the eye of the stag
said he
They hung all the quarters of the stag
as before, and then set off for Jacob's cottage, Edward proposing that
Oswald should take the cart and pony to carry the meat home next
morning, and that he would accompany him to bring it back
said Oswald
replied Edward.

Their dinner was ready for them, and Oswald praised the cooking. He was
much surprised to see that Jacob had four grandchildren. After dinner,
he went into Jacob's room, and remained with him more than an hour.
During this conference, Jacob confided to Oswald that the four children
were the sons and daughters of Colonel Beverley, supposed to have been
burned in the firing of Arnwood. Oswald came out, much surprised as
well as pleased with the information, and with the confidence reposed
in him. He saluted Edward and Humphrey respectfully, and said
replied Edward
They then entered into a long conversation, during which Oswald
expressed his opinion that the old man was sinking fast, and would not
last more than three or four days. Oswald had a bed made up for him on
the floor of the room where Edward and Humphrey slept; and the next
morning they set off, at an early hour, with the pony and cart, loaded
it with venison, and took it across the forest to the keeper's lodge.
It was so late when they arrived, that Edward consented to pass the
night there, and return home on the following morning. Oswald went into
the sitting-room to speak with the intendant of the forest, leaving
Edward in the kitchen with Phoebe, the maid-servant. He told the
intendant that he had brought home some fine venison, and wished his
orders about it. He also stated that he had been assisted by Edward
Armitage, who had brought the venison home for him in his cart, and who
was now in the kitchen, as he would be obliged to pass the night there;
and, on being questioned, he was lavish in his praises of Edward's
skill and knowledge of woodcraft, which he declared to be superior to
his own
replied Mr. Heatherstone, smiling
Oswald left the room, and came back to Edward
said he to Edward, smiling
replied Edward
replied Phoebe
replied Edward
replied Phoebe, who was rather old
and rather cross
Oswald was about to remonstrate, but Edward held up his finger and no
more was said.

As soon as they had finished their supper, Phoebe proposed that they
should go to bed. It was late, and she would sit up no longer. Edward
rose and went out, followed by Oswald, who had given up the keeper's
house to the intendant and his daughter, and slept in the cottage of
one of the rangers, about a quarter of a mile off. After some
conversation, they shook hands and parted, as Edward intended returning
very early the next morning, being anxious about old Jacob.

Edward went up the ladder into the loft. There was no door to shut out
the wind, which blew piercingly cold and after a time he found himself
so chilled that he could not sleep. He rose to see if he could not find
some protection from the wind by getting more into a corner; for
although Phoebe had told him that there was plenty of straw, it proved
that there was very little indeed in the loft, barely enough to lie
down upon. Edward, after a time, descended the ladder to walk in the
yard, that by exercise he might recover the use of his limbs. At last,
turning to and fro, he cast his eyes up to the window of the bedroom
above the kitchen, where he perceived a light was still burning. He
thought it was Phoebe, the maid, going to bed; and with no very
gracious feelings toward her for having deprived him of his own night's
rest, he was wishing that she might have the toothache or something
else to keep her awake, when suddenly through the white window curtain
he perceived a broad light in the room -- it increased every moment -- and
he saw the figure of a female rush past it, and attempt to open the
window -- the drawing of the curtains showed him that the room was on
fire. A moment's thought, and he ran for the ladder by which he had
ascended to the loft, and placed it against the window. The flames were
less bright, and he could not see the female who had been at the window
when lie went for the ladder. He ascended quickly, and burst open the
casement -- the smoke poured out in such volumes that it neatly
suffocated him, but he went in; and as soon as he was inside, he
stumbled against the body of the person who had attempted to open the
window, but who had fallen down senseless. As he raised the body, the
fire, which had been smothered from want of air when all the windows
and doors were closed, now burst out, and he was scorched before he
could get on the ladder again, with the body in his arms; but he
succeeded in getting it down safe. Perceiving that the clothes were on
fire, he held them till they were extinguished, and then for the first
time discovered that he had brought down the daughter of the intendant
of the forest. There was no time to be lost, so Edward carried her into
the stable and left her there, still insensible, upon the straw, in a
spare stall, while he hastened to alarm the house. The watering-butt
for the horses was outside the stable; Edward caught up the pail,
filled it, and hastening up the ladder, threw it into the room, and
then descended for more.

By this time Edward's continual calls of
had aroused the
people of the house, and also of the cottages adjacent. Mr.
Heatherstone came out half dressed, and with horror on his countenance.
Phoebe followed screaming, and the other people now hastened from the
cottages
exclaimed Mr. Heatherstone
cried the poor man, in agony; but the
fire burst out of the window in such force, that any attempt would have
been in vain
cried Edward to him
Oswald set the men to work, and Edward was now supplied with water so
fast that the fire began to diminish. The window was now approachable,
and a few more buckets enabled him to put one foot into the room, and
then every moment the flames and smoke decreased.

Meanwhile it would be impossible to describe the agony of the
intendant, who would have rushed up the ladder into the flames, had he
not been held by some of the men
exclaimed he, clasping his hands.

At that moment a voice in the crowd called out
exclaimed Mr. Heatherstone, falling down in a swoon,
in which state he was carried to a neighboring cottage.

Meanwhile the supply of water enabled Edward to put out the fire
altogether: the furniture of the room was burned, but the fire had
extended no farther; and when Edward was satisfied that there was no
more danger, he descended the ladder, and left it to others to see that
all was safe. He then called Oswald to him, and desired that he would
accompany him to the stable
replied Oswald
replied Edward
Oswald folded up the still unconscious girl in his cloak, and earned
her away in his arms, followed by Edward.

As soon as they arrived at the cottage, the inmates of which were all
busy at the keeper's lodge, they put her on a bed, and very soon
restored her to consciousness
cried Patience, as soon as she was sufficiently
recovered
replied Oswald
Patience attempted to stand, but found that she was too much exhausted,
and she fell back again on the bed
said she
replied Oswald
replied Edward. He went out of the cottage door, and remained
there while Oswald went to Mr. Heatherstone.

Oswald found him sensible, but in deep distress, as may be imagined
said Oswald
replied Oswald
cried Mr. Heatherstone, starting up
Mr. Heatherstone rushed out, passed by Edward, who was standing at the
door of the other cottage, and was in his daughter's arms. Oswald came
out to Edward, who then detailed to him the way in which he had saved
the girl
observed Edward
observed
Oswald
said Edward
Oswald went into the cottage and returned with some salve, with which
he dressed Edward's arm, which proved to be very severely burned
observed Oswald
replied
Oswald.

Edward then asked Oswald to saddle his pony for him, as his arm
prevented him from doing it himself, and, as soon as it was done, he
rode away from the cottage.

Edward rode fast, for he was anxious to get home and ascertain the
state of poor old Jacob; and, moreover, his burned arm was very
painful. He was met by Humphrey about a mile from the cottage, who told
him that he did not think that the old man could last many hours, and
that he was very anxious to see him. As the pony was quite tired with
the fast pace that Edward had ridden, Edward pulled up to a walk, and
as they went along acquainted Humphrey with what had passed
replied Edward
said the old forester
replied Edward
Edward summoned his sisters and Humphrey
said Jacob
These were the last words spoken by the old forester. The children, who
were kneeling by the side of the bed, praying as he had requested, when
they rose up, found that he was dead. They all wept bitterly, for they
dearly loved the good old man. Alice remained sobbing in Edward's arms,
and Edith in Humphrey's, and it was long before the brothers could
console them. Humphrey at last said to Alice
These requests diverted the attention, at the same time that it roused
fresh sympathy in the little girls -- they all went into the
sitting-room. Humphrey gave his sisters some potatoes to scrape upon a
piece of linen, while he took off Edward's coat, and turned up his
shirt sleeves. The scraped potatoes were then laid on the burn, and
Edward said they gave him great relief. Some more were then scraped by
the little girls, who could not, however, repress their occasional
sobs. Humphrey then told them that Edward had had nothing to eat, and
that they must get him some supper. This again occupied them for some
time; and when the supper was ready, they all sat down to it. They went
to bed early, but not before Edward had read a chapter out of the
Bible, and the prayers, as old Jacob had always done; and this again
caused their tears to flow afresh
said Humphrey.

The little girls threw themselves into their brothers' arms; and having
wept for some time, Alice raised herself, and taking Edith by the hand,
led her away to her bedroom
said Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
Humphrey put the fresh dressing on Edward's arm; and Edward, who was
very much exhausted, lay down in his clothes on the bed. Humphrey went
out, and having found his tools, set to his task -- he worked hard, and,
before morning, had finished. He then went in, and took his place on
the bed, by the side of Edward, who was in a sound sleep. At daylight
Humphrey rose, and waked Edward
When Humphrey returned, he found Edward had selected a sheet to wind
the body in, but could not do more till Humphrey came to help him. They
then wrapped it round the body, and carried it out of the cottage, and
put it into the cart
They dragged the body on the cart to the grave, and laid it in it, and
then returned back and put the pony in the stable again
said Humphrey
said Edward
said Humphrey, turning over the leaves
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
Humphrey went to the door, and said
They were both ready dressed.

Edward took the Bible under his arm, and Alice by the hand. Humphrey
led Edith until they arrived at the grave, when the two little girls
saw the covered body of Jacob lying in it
said Edward, opening the Bible. And they all knelt down
by the grave. Edward read the two Psalms, and then closed the book. The
little girls took one last look at the body, and then turned away
weeping to the cottage. Edward and Humphrey filled up the grave, and
then followed their sisters home
said Humphrey, wiping his eyes
said Edward.

Edward sat down upon old Jacob's chair, and took Alice and Edith to
him. Putting his arm round each, he said
Edward and the children repeated the Lord's Prayer, and then rose up.
They went to their respective employments, and the labor of the day
soon made them composed, although then, for many days afterward, it was
but occasionally that a smile was seen upon their lips.

Thus passed a week, by which time Edward's arm was so far well that it
gave him no pain, and he was able to assist Humphrey in the work on the
farm. The snow had disappeared, and the spring, although it had been
checked for a time, now made rapid advances. Constant occupation, and
the return of fine weather, both had the effect of returning the
serenity of their minds; and while Humphrey was preparing the paling to
fix round the grave of old Jacob, Alice and Edith collected the wild
violets which now peeped forth on sheltered spots, and planted the
roots over the grave. Edward also procured all the early flowers he
could collect, and assisted his sisters in their task; and thus, in
planting it, and putting up the paling, the grave of the old man became
the constant work-ground; and when their labor was done, they would
still remain there and talk over his worth. The Sunday following the
burial, the weather being fine and warm, Edward proposed that they
should read the usual service, which had been selected by old Jacob, at
the grave, and not in the cottage, as formerly; and this they continued
afterward to do, whenever the weather would permit: thus did old
Jacob's resting-place become their church, and overpower them with
those feelings of love and devotion which gave efficacy to prayer. As
soon as the paling was finished, Humphrey put up a board against the
oak-tree, with the simple words carved on it
Edward had, every day, expected that Oswald Partridge would have called
upon him, as he had promised to do, before the week was out; but Oswald
had not made his appearance, much to Edward's surprise. A month passed
away; Edward's arm was now quite well, and still Oswald came not. One
morning, Humphrey and Edward were conversing upon many points -- the
principal of which was upon Edward going to Lymington, for they were
now in want of flour and meal, when Edward thought of what old Jacob
had told him relative to the money that he would find in his chest. He
went into Jacob's room and opened the chest, at the bottom of which,
under the clothes, he found a leather bag, which he brought out to
Humphrey; on opening it, they were much surprised to find in it more
than sixty gold pieces, besides a great deal of silver coin
observed Humphrey
replied Edward
Edward then replaced the money in the chest, and he and Humphrey then
went out to the farmyard to go on with their work.

It was not until six weeks after the death of old Jacob that Oswald
Partridge made his appearance
was his first question
replied Edward
said the forester
replied Edward
exclaimed Edward
replied Oswald
exclaimed Edward
replied Oswald
said Edward
Edward was indeed in a state of mind which required calming down. He
quitted the cottage and walked out for some distance into the forest,
in deep thought
exclaimed he
Such were Edward's thoughts as he wandered through the forest, and more
than an hour elapsed before his impetuous blood could return to its
usual flow; at last, his mind having partially resumed its wonted
calmness, he returned to the cottage and listened to the details which
Oswald now gave to him of what he had heard.

When Oswald had finished, Edward asked him whether the intendant had
returned
replied Oswald
replied Edward
Edward then put many questions to Oswald relative to the value of
various articles, and to the best method of disposing of his venison.

Oswald answered all his questions, and Edward took down notes and
directions on paper.

Oswald remained with them for two days, and then bade them farewell,
exacting a promise from Edward that he would come to the ranger's
cottage as soon as he could
Edward promised that Oswald should see him in less than ten days, and
Oswald set out on his journey
said Edward, as soon as Oswald was gone
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
As Humphrey made this remark, Oswald re-entered the cottage
said Oswald
said Edward
Humphrey went immediately to put the pony in the cart, when Edward said
replied Oswald
The pony and cart were soon at the door, and Edward having received
further instructions from Alice, set off for Lymington, accompanied by
Oswald
said Oswald, as the pony
trotted along
replied Edward
replied Oswald
replied Edward
said Oswald
As soon as they arrived at Lymington, Oswald directed the way to a
small hostelry to which the keepers and verderers usually resorted. In
fact, the landlord was the party who took all the venison off their
hands, and disposed of it. They drove into the yard, and, giving the
pony and cart in charge of the hostler, went into the inn, where they
found the landlord, and one or two other people, who were drinking
said Oswald
said the corpulent landlord, throwing back his head, and
putting out his stomach, as he peered at Oswald
continued the landlord, turning to Edward
replied Edward
Oswald and Edward then entered with the landlord, and arrangements were
made between Master Andrew and the latter for a regular supply of
venison during the season, at a certain price; but as it would now be
dangerous to bring it into the town, it was agreed that when there was
any ready, Edward should come to Lymington and give notice, and the
landlord would send out people to bring it in during the night. This
bargain concluded, they took a glass with the landlord, and then went
into the town to make the necessary purchases. Oswald took Edward to
all the shops where the articles he required were to be purchased; some
they carried away with them; others, which were too heavy, they left,
to be called for with the cart as they went away. Among other articles,
Edward required powder and lead, and they went to a gunsmith's where it
was to be procured. While making his purchases, Edward perceived a
sword, which he thought he had seen before, hanging up against the wall
among other weapons
said he, to the man who was measuring out the
powder
replied the man
Edward remained silent for some little while, for he could not trust
himself to speak; at last he replied
said Oswald
replied the shopkeeper
replied
Edward.

The shopkeeper then produced the account, which Edward paid; and giving
on the paper the name of Edward Armitage, he took possession of the
sword. He then paid for the powder and lead, which Oswald took charge
of, and, hardly able to conceal his joy, hastened out of the shop
cried Edward
replied Oswald
When they arrived at the inn, Oswald went out to the yard to get the
cart ready, while Edward went into the landlord's room to make
inquiries as to the quantity of venison he would be able to take off
his hands at a time. Oswald had taken the sword from Edward, and had
put it in the cart while he was fastening the harness, when a man came
up to the cart and looked earnestly at the sword. He then examined it,
and said to Oswald
replied Oswald
replied the man
replied Oswald.

Oswald then went in to Edward, and told him what had occurred
said he
replied Oswald, who then left Edward, and
returned to the landlord and recommenced conversation.

Oswald on his return, told Benjamin in what manner the sword had been
procured from the shopman, by the grandson of old Armitage
replied Benjamin
inquired Oswald
said Oswald
relied Benjamin, looking rather confused
replied Oswald, getting into the
cart
much to the satisfaction of Oswald, who
thought that he would never go.

They went away at a rapid pace to make up for lost time, and soon
disappeared around the corner of the street. Oswald then got out again,
summoned Edward, and having called for the flour and other heavy
articles, they set off on their return.

During the drive, Oswald made known to Edward the information which he
had gained from Benjamin, and at a late hour they arrived safely at the
cottage.

They staid up but a short time, as they were tired; and Oswald had
resolved upon setting off before daylight on the following morning,
which he did without disturbing any one; for Humphrey was up and
dressed as soon as Oswald was and gave him something to eat as he went
along. All the others remained fast asleep. Humphrey walked about a
mile with Oswald, and was returning to the farm when he thought, as he
had not examined his pitfall for many days, that he might as well look
at it before he went back. He therefore struck out in the direction in
which it lay, and arrived there just as the day began to dawn.

It was the end of March, and the weather was mild for the season.
Humphrey arrived at the pit, and it was sufficiently light for him to
perceive that the covering had been broken in, and therefore, in all
probability, something must have been trapped. He sat down and waited
for daylight, but at times he thought he heard a heavy breathing, and
once a low groan. This made him more anxious, and he again and again
peered into the pit, but could not for a long while discover any thing,
until at last he thought that he could make out a human figure lying at
the bottom. Humphrey called out, asking if there was any one there. A
groan was the reply, and now Humphrey was horrified with the idea that
somebody had fallen into the pit, and had perished, or was perishing
for want of succor. Recollecting that the rough ladder which he had
made to take the soil up out of the pit was against an oak-tree, close
at hand, he ran for it, and put it down the pit, and then cautiously
descended. On his arrival at the bottom, his fears were found to be
verified, for he saw the body of a lad, half clothed, lying there. He
turned it up as it was lying with its face to the ground, and attempted
to remove it, and to ascertain if there was life in it, which he was
delighted to find was the case. The lad groaned several times, and
opened his eyes. Humphrey was afraid that he was not strong enough to
lift him on his shoulders and carry him up the ladder; but, on making
the attempt he found out, from exhaustion, the poor lad was light
enough for him to carry him, which he did, and safely landed him by the
side of the pit.

Recollecting that the watering-place of the herd of cattle was not far
off, Humphrey then hastened to it, and filled his hat half full of
water. The lad, although he could not speak, drank eagerly, and in a
few minutes appeared much recovered. Humphrey gave him some more, and
bathed his face and temples. The sun had now risen, and it was broad
daylight. The lad attempted to speak, but what he did say was in so low
a tone, and evidently in a foreign language, that Humphrey could not
make him out. He, therefore, made signs to the lad that he was going
away, and would be back soon; and having, as he thought, made the lad
comprehend this, Humphrey ran away to the cottage as fast as he could;
and as soon as he arrived he called for Edward, who came out, and when
Humphrey told him in few words what had happened, Edward went into the
cottage again for some milk and some cake, while Humphrey put the pony
into the cart.

In a few moments they were off again, and soon arrived at the pitfall,
where they found the lad, still lying where Humphrey had left him. They
soaked the cake in the milk, and as soon as it was soft gave him some;
after a time, he swallowed pretty freely, and was so much recovered as
to be able to sit up. They then lifted him into the cart, and drove
gently home to their cottage
said Humphrey
said Humphrey
replied Edward, laughing
As soon as they arrived at the cottage, they lifted the lad out of the
cart, and carried him into Jacob's room, and laid him on the bed, for
he was too weak to stand.

Alice and Edith, who were much surprised at the new visitor and the way
in which he had been caught, hastened to get some gruel ready for him.
As soon as it was ready, they gave it to the boy, who then fell back on
the bed with exhaustion, and was soon in a sound sleep. He slept
soundly all that night; and the next morning, when he awoke, he
appeared much better, although very hungry. This last complaint was
easy to remedy, and then the lad got up, and walked into the
sitting-room
said Humphrey to the lad
replied the lad
replied he
Humphrey put a great many more questions to the lad, and elicited from
him, in his imperfect English, the following particulars:

That he was in company with several others of his race, going down to
the sea-coast on one of their usual migrations, and that they had
pitched their tents not far from the pitfall. That during the night he
had gone out to set some snares for rabbits, and going back to the
tents, it being quite dark, he had fallen into the hole; that he had
remained there three days and nights, having in vain attempted to get
out. His mother was with the party of gipsies to which he belonged, but
he had no father. He did not know where to follow the gang, as they had
not said where they were going, farther than to the sea-coast. That it
was no use looking for them; and that he did not care much about
leaving them, as he was very unkindly treated. In reply to the question
as to whether he would like to remain with them, and work with them on
the farm, he replied that he should like it very much if they would be
kind to him, and not make him work too hard; that he would cook the
dinner, and catch them rabbits and birds, and make a great many things
said Edward.

The lad thought a little while, and then nodded his head in the
affirmative
said Edward
replied Pablo; and here the conversation ended
for the present.

Pablo was a very short-built lad, of apparently fifteen or sixteen
years of age, very dark in complexion, but very handsome in features,
with beautiful white teeth and large dark eyes; and there was certainly
something in his intelligent countenance which recommended him,
independent of his claim to their kindness from his having been left
thus friendless in consequence of his misadventure. Humphrey was
particularly pleased with and interested about him, as the lad had so
nearly lost his life through his means
said Humphrey, as they were standing outside
of the door of the cottage
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
Edward and Humphrey went into the bedroom, and Edward brought out the
sword, which he had placed by his side on the bed
continued Edward,
kissing the weapon
replied Humphrey
Edward then related all that had passed during his visit with Oswald to
Lymington, not forgetting to tell him of Benjamin's appearance, and the
arrangements he had made relative to the sale of the venison.

As soon as dinner was over, Edward and Humphrey took down their guns,
having agreed that they would go and hunt the wild cattle
said Edward
observed Edward
replied
Humphrey
replied Edward
Edward and Humphrey stopped to load their guns, and then approached the
herd in manner which had been proposed, and were very soon within two
hundred yards of the cattle, behind a large oak, when they stopped to
reconnoiter. The herd contained about seventy head of cattle, of
various sizes and ages. They were feeding in all directions, scattered,
as the young grass was very short; but although the herd was spread
over many acres of land, Edward pointed out to Humphrey that all the
full-grown large bulls were on the outside, as if ready to defend the
others in case of attack
said Edward
replied Humphrey
They advanced gradually, hiding from tree to tree, until they were
within eighty yards of one of the bulls. The animal did not perceive
them, and as they were now within range, they again stepped behind the
tree to consult
replied Edward
The distance of the tree which Humphrey ventured to get to was one
about one hundred and fifty yards from where Edward was standing.
Humphrey crawled along for some time in the fern, but at last he came
to a bare spot of about ten yards wide, which they were not aware of,
and where he could not be concealed. Humphrey hesitated, and at last
decided upon attempting to cross it. Edward, who was one moment
watching the motions of Humphrey, and at another that of the two
animals nearest to them, perceived that the white bull farthest from
him, but nearest to Humphrey, threw its head in the air, pawed with his
foot, and then advanced with a roar to where Humphrey was on the
ground, still crawling toward the tree, having passed the open spot,
and being now not many yards from the tree. Perceiving the danger that
his brother was in, and that, moreover, Humphrey himself was not aware
of it, he hardly knew how to act. The bull was too far from him to fire
at it with any chance of success; and how to let Humphrey know that the
animal had discovered him and was making toward him, without calling
out, he did not know. All this was the thought of a moment, and then
Edward determined to fire at the bull nearest to him, which he had
promised not to do till Humphrey was also ready to fire, and after
firing to call to Humphrey. He therefore, for one moment, turned away
from his brother, and, taking aim at the bull, fired his gun; but
probably from his nerves being a little shaken at the idea of Humphrey
being in danger, the wound was not mortal, and the bull galloped back
to the herd, which formed a closed phalanx about a quarter of a mile
distant. Edward then turned to where his brother was, and perceived
that the bull had not made off with the rest of the cattle, but was
within thirty yards of Humphrey, and advancing upon him, and that
Humphrey was standing up beside the tree with his gun ready to file.
Humphrey fired, and, as it appeared, he also missed his aim; the animal
made at him; but Humphrey, with great quickness, dropped his gun, and,
swinging by the lower boughs, was into the tree, and out of the bull's
reach in a moment. Edward smiled when he perceived that Humphrey was
safe; but still he was a prisoner, for the bull went round and round
the tree roaring and looking up at Humphrey. Edward thought a minute,
then loaded his gun, and ordered Smoker to run in to the bull. The dog,
who had only been restrained by Edward's keeping him down at his feet,
sprung forward to the attack. Edward had intended, by calling to the
dog, to induce the bull to follow it till within gun-shot; but before
the bull had been attacked, Edward observed that one or two more of the
bulls had left the herd, and were coming at a rapid pace toward him.
Under these circumstances, Edward perceived that his only chance was to
climb into a tree himself, which he did, taking good care to take his
gun and ammunition with him. Having safely fixed himself in a forked
bough, Edward then surveyed the position of the parties. There was
Humphrey in the tree, without his gun. The bull who had pursued
Humphrey was now running at Smoker, who appeared to be aware that he
was to decoy the bull toward Edward, for he kept retreating toward him.
In the mean time, the two other bulls were quite close at hand,
mingling their bellowing and roaring with the first; and one of them as
near to Edward as the first bull, which was engaged with Smoker. At
last, one of the advancing bulls stood still, pawing the ground as if
disappointed at not finding an enemy, not forty yards from where Edward
was perched. Edward took good aim, and when he fired the bull fell
dead. Edward was reloading his piece when he heard a howl, and looking
round, saw Smoker flying up in the air, having been tossed by the first
bull; and at the same time he observed that Humphrey had descended from
the tree, recovered his gun, and was now safe again upon the lower
bough.

The first bull was advancing again to attack Smoker, who appeared
incapable of getting away, so much was he injured by the fall, when the
other bull, who apparently must have been an old antagonist of the
first, roared and attacked him; and now the two boys were up in the
tree, the two bulls fighting between them, and Smoker lying on the
ground, panting and exhausted. As the bulls, with locked horns, were
furiously pressing each other, both guns were discharged, and both
animals fell. After waiting a little while to see if they rose again,
or if any more of the herd came up, Edward and Humphrey descended from
the trees and heartily shook hands
said Edward as he held his brother's hand
replied
Humphrey
said Edward, going up to the dog, who remained quite
still on the ground, with his tongue out, and panting violently.

They examined poor Smoker all over very carefully, and found that there
was no external wound; but on Edward pressing his side, the animal gave
a low howl
observed Humphrey
said Edward, pressing and feeling softly
Humphrey soon returned with some water from a neighboring pool. He
brought it in his hat and gave it to the dog, who lapped it slowly at
first, but afterward much faster, and wagging his tail
said Edward
Humphrey gave his knife to Edward, and taking up his gun, set off for
the cottage. Edward had skinned two of the bulls before Humphrey's
return; and Smoker, although he evidently was in great pain, was on his
legs again. As soon as they had finished and quartered the beasts, the
cart was loaded and they returned home; they had to return a second
time, and both the pony and they were very tired before they sat down
to supper They found the gipsy boy very much recovered and in good
spirits. Alice said that he had been amusing Edith and her by tossing
up three potatoes at a time, and playing them like balls; and that he
has spun a platter upon an iron skewer and balanced it on his chin.
They gave him some supper, which he ate in the chimney corner, looking
up and staring every now and then at Edith, to whom he appeared very
much attached already
said Humphrey to the boy, giving him another venison
steak
replied Pablo, laughing.

Early on the following morning, Edward and Humphrey set off to
Lymington with the cart laden with meat. Edward showed Humphrey all the
shops and the streets they were in where the purchases were to be
made -- introduced him to the landlord of the hostelry -- and having sold
their meat, they returned home. The rest of the meat was taken to
Lymington and disposed of by Humphrey on the following day; and the day
after that the three skins were carried to the town and disposed of
said Humphrey, as he reckoned up
the money they had made
replied Edward
said Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Humphrey
replied Humphrey
replied Edward, laughing
replied Humphrey
At sunrise, Edward and Humphrey were both up; Alice came out when they
tapped at her door, as she would not let Edward go without his
breakfast. Edith joined them, and they went to prayers. While they were
so employed, Pablo came out and listened to what was said. When prayers
were over, Humphrey asked Pablo if he knew what they had been doing
said Edith
said Pablo
said Alice
The conversation was then dropped, and as soon as Edward had made his
breakfast, he kissed his sisters, and wished Humphrey farewell.

Edward threw his gun over his arm, and calling his puppy, which he had
named Holdfast, bade Humphrey and his sisters farewell, and set off on
his journey across the forest.

Holdfast, as well as Humphrey's puppy, which had been named Watch, had
grown very fine young animals. The first had been named Holdfast,
because it would seize the pigs by the ears and lead them into the sty,
and the other because it was so alert at the least noise; but, as
Humphrey said, Watch ought to have learned to lead the pigs, it being
more in his line of business than Holdfast's, which was to be brought
up for hunting in the forest, while Watch was being educated as a house
and farmyard dog.

Edward had refused to take the pony, as Humphrey required it for the
farm-work, and the weather was so fine that he preferred walking; the
more so, as it would enable him on his return across the forest to try
for some venison, which he could not have done if he had been mounted
on Billy's back. Edward walked quick, followed by his dog, which he had
taught to keep to heel. He felt happy, as people do who have no cares,
from the fine weather -- the deep green of the verdure checkered by the
flowers in bloom, and the majestic scenery which met his eye on every
side. His heart was as buoyant as his steps, as he walked along, the
light summer breeze fanning his face. His thoughts, however, which had
been more of the chase than any thing else, suddenly changed, and he
became serious. For some time he had heard no political news of
consequence, or what the Commons were doing with the king. This revery
naturally brought to his mind his father's death, the burning of his
property, and its sequestration. His cheeks colored with indignation,
and his brow was moody. Then he built castles for the future. He
imagined the king released from his prison, and leading an army against
his oppressors; he fancied himself at the head of a troop of cavalry,
charging the Parliamentary horse. Victory was on his side. The king was
again on his throne, and he was again in possession of the family
estate. He was rebuilding the hall, and somehow or another it appeared
to him that Patience was standing by his side, as he gave directions to
the artificers, when his revery was suddenly disturbed by Holdfast
barking and springing forward in advance.

Edward, who had by this time got over more than half his journey,
looked up, and perceived himself confronted by a powerful man,
apparently about forty years of age, and dressed as a verderer of the
forest. He thought at the time that he had seldom seen a person with a
more sinister and forbidding countenance
said the man, walking
up to him and cocking the gun which he held in hand as he advanced.

Edward quietly cocked his own gun, which was loaded, when he perceived
that hostile preparation on the part of the other person, and then
replied
replied Edward
replied Edward
There was something so cool and so determined in Edward's quiet manner,
that the verderer hesitated. He perceived that any attempt to take
Edward would be at the risk of his own life; and he knew that his
orders were to apprehend all poachers, but not to shoot people. It was
true, that resistance with firearms would warrant his acting in
self-defense; but admitting that he should succeed, which was doubtful,
still Edward had not been caught in the act of killing venison, and he
had no witnesses to prove what had occurred. He also knew that the
intendant had given very strict orders as to the shedding of blood,
which he was most averse to, under any circumstances; and there was
something in Edward's appearance and manner so different from a common
person, that he was puzzled. Moreover, Edward had stated that he was
going to the intendant's house. All things considered, as he found that
bullying would not succeed, he thought it advisable to change his tone,
and therefore said
replied Edward
The verderer appeared very indignant at this reply, but after a time
said
Edward then uncocked his gun, with his eyes fixed upon the man, and the
verderer did the same: and then they walked side by side, Edward
keeping at the distance of three yards from him, in case of treachery.

After a few moments' silence, the verderer said
said Edward
replied the man, who, finding that Edward appeared to know so
much about the intendant's family, began to be more civil
rejoined Edward
replied
Edward
This reply puzzled the man still more; and he now, from the tone of
authority assumed by Edward, began to imagine that he had made some
mistake, and that he was speaking to a superior, although clad in a
forester's dress. He therefore answered humbly, observing that he had
only been doing his duty.

Edward walked on without making any reply.

As they arrived within a hundred yards of the intendant's house Edward
said
replied the verderer
Edward then turned away from the man, and went into the wicket-gate of
the garden, and knocked at the door of the House. The door was opened
by Patience Heatherstone herself, who said
Edward took off his hat and bowed. Patience led the way
into her father's study, where Edward had been first received
said Patience, extending her hand to Edward
Her hand still remained in Edward's while she said this
replied Edward
Cavalier he was about to say, but he checked himself
said Patience, taking a chair
Edward smiled as he took his seat
replied Edward
replied Patience
inquired Patience
replied Patience
said Patience, the tears
starting in her eyes
So saying, Patience left the room.

The fact was, Mistress Patience was reminded that she had been sitting
with a young man some time, and alone with him -- which was not quite
proper in those times; and when Phoebe appeared with the cold viands,
she retreated out of hearing, but remained in the room.

Edward partook of the meal offered him in silence, Patience occupying
herself with her work, and keeping her eyes fixed on it, unless when
she gave a slight glance at the table to see if any thing was required.
When the meal was over, Phoebe removed the tray, and then Edward rose
to take his leave
replied Patience, gravely
replied Edward, who began to feel
uneasy at this close cross-examination
Patience looked up with surprise at this last question
replied Patience, with surprise
said Patience
replied
Edward, laughing
replied Edward
replied Patience
Patience held out her hand again to Edward, who this time, like a true
Cavalier, raised it respectfully to his lips. Patience colored a
little, but did not attempt to withdraw it, and Edward, with a low
obeisance, quitted the room
As soon as he was out of the intendant's house, Edward hastened to the
cottage of Oswald Partridge, whom he found waiting for him, for the
verderer had not failed to deliver his message
said Oswald, after
the first greeting
replied Oswald
Edward then told Oswald of their having taken the gipsy boy in the pit,
at which he appeared much amused
inquired
Edward
replied Oswald
said Edward
replied Oswald
replied Oswald
Edward remained that night at Oswald's, and at daylight he rose, and
having taken a slight breakfast, throwing his gun over his shoulder,
went to the kennel for Holdfast, and set off on his return home
were the words which Edward found
himself constantly saying to himself as he walked along
and then he thought of
what she had told him relative to her father, and Edward felt his
animosity against a Roundhead wasting fast away
thought Edward
Thus thinking upon, one subject or
another, Edward had gained above eight miles of his journey across the
forest, when he thought that he was sufficiently far away to venture to
look out for some venison. Remembering there was a thicket not far from
him in which there was a clear pool of water, Edward thought it very
likely that he might find a stag there cooling himself, for the weather
was now very warm at noonday. He therefore called Holdfast to him, and
proceeded cautiously toward the thicket. As soon as he arrived at the
spot, he crouched and crept silently through the underwood. At last he
arrived close to the cleared spot by the pool. There was no stag there,
but fast asleep upon the turf lay James Corbould, the sinister-looking
verderer who had accosted him in the forest on the previous day.
Holdfast was about to bark, when Edward silenced him, and then advanced
to where the verderer was lying; and who, having no dog with him to
give notice of Edward's approach, still remained snoring with the sun
shining on his face. Edward perceived that his gun was under him on the
grass, he took it up, gently opened the pan and scattered the powder,
and then laid it down again -- for Edward said to himself
Edward then walked out of the covert,
thinking that if ever there was a face which proclaimed a man to be a
murderer, it was that of James Corbould. As he was threading his way,
he heard the howl of a dog, and on looking round, perceived that
Holdfast was not with him. He turned back, and Holdfast came running to
him -- the fact was, that Holdfast had smelled some meat in the pocket of
the verderer, and had been putting his nose in to ascertain what it
was: in so doing, he had wakened up Corbould, who had saluted him with
a heavy blow on the head: this occasioned the puppy to give the howl,
and also occasioned Corbould to seize his gun, and follow stealthily in
the track of the dog, which he well knew to be the one he had seen the
day before with Edward.

Edward waited for a short time, and not perceiving that Corbould made
his appearance, continued on his way home, having now given up all
thoughts of killing any venison. He walked fast, and was within six
miles of the cottage, when he stopped to drink at a small rill of
water, and then sat down to rest himself for a short time. While so
doing, he fell into one of his usual reveries, and forgot how time
passed away. He was, however, aroused by a low growl on the part of
Holdfast, and it immediately occurred to him that Corbould must have
followed him. Thinking it as well to be prepared, he quietly loaded his
gun, and then rose up to reconnoiter. Holdfast sprung forward, and
Edward, looking in the direction, perceived Corbould partly hidden
behind a tree, with his gun leveled at him. He heard the trigger
pulled, and snap of the lock, but the gun did not go off; and then
Corbould made his appearance, striking at Holdfast with the butt-end of
his gun. Edward advanced to him and desired him to desist, or it would
be the worse for him
cried Corbould
replied Edward
continued
Edward, raising his gun to his shoulder and pointing it at Corbould
Corbould saw that Edward was resolute, and thought proper to comply
with his request: he walked away till he considered himself out of
gunshot, and then commenced a torrent of oaths and abusive language,
with which we shall not offend our readers. Before he went farther, he
swore that he would have Edward's life before many days had passed, and
then shaking his fist, he went away. Edward remained where he was
standing till the man was fairly out of sight, and then proceeded on
his journey. It was now about four o'clock in the afternoon, and
Edward, as he walked on, said to himself
Edward
then walked away more to the north, and every half hour shifted his
course so as to be walking in a very different direction from where the
cottage stood. In the mean time it grew gradually dark; and as it
became so, every now and then when Edward passed a large tree, he
turned round behind it and looked to see if Corbould was following him.
At last, just as it was dark, he perceived the figure of a man at no
great distance from him, who was following him, running from tree to
tree, so as to make his approach
thought Edward
Edward looked round, and then
perceived that he was close to the clump of trees where Humphrey had
made his pitfall for the cattle, and there was a clear spot of about a
quarter of a mile between it and where he now stood. Edward made up his
mind, and immediately walked out to cross the clearing, calling
Holdfast to heel. It was now nearly dark, for there was only the light
of the stars, but still there was sufficient light to see his way. As
Edward crossed the cleared spot, he once looked round and perceived
that Corbould was following him, and nearer than he was before,
trusting probably to the increased darkness to hide his approach
thought Edward
And Edward
walked on till he came to the pitfall; there he stopped and looked
round, and soon discovered the verderer at a hundred yards' distance.
Edward held his dog by the mouth, that he should not growl or bark, and
then went on in a direction so as to bring the pitfall exactly between
Corbould and himself. Having done so, he proceeded at a more rapid
pace; and Corbould, following him, also increased his, till he arrived
at the pitfall, which he could not perceive, and fell into it headlong;
and as he fell into the pit, at the same time Edward heard the
discharge of his gun, the crash of the small branches laid over it, and
a cry on the part of Corbould
thought Edward
Edward walked at a rapid pace, quite delighted at the issue
of the adventure. As he arrived near to the cottage he found Humphrey
outside, with Pablo, on the look-out for him. He soon joined them, and
soon after embraced Alice and Edith, who had been anxiously waiting for
his return, and who had wondered at his being out so late
said Edward
As soon as Edward had satisfied his craving appetite -- for he had not,
as my readers must recollect, eaten any thing since his departure early
in the morning from the house of Oswald Partridge -- he entered into a
narrative of the events of the day. They all listened with great
interest; and when Edward had finished, Pablo, the gipsy boy, jumped up
and said
replied Edward, laughing
said little Edith
said Pablo
replied Edith,
who appeared to have assumed an authority over him. Pablo did not
appear to understand this, but he obeyed the order of his little
mistress, and resumed his seat at the chimney corner
said Humphrey
replied Humphrey
said Alice
said Edith
The danger that Edward had incurred that day was felt strongly by the
whole party; and, with the exception of Pablo there was earnest
devotion and gratitude to Heaven when their orisons were offered up.

Humphrey was off before daybreak, and at nine o'clock had arrived at
the cottage of Oswald, by whom he was warmly greeted before the cause
of his unexpected arrival was made known. Oswald was greatly annoyed at
Humphrey's narration, and appeared to be very much of the opinion of
Pablo, which was, to leave the scoundrel where he was; but, on the
remonstrance of Humphrey, he set off, with two of the other verderers,
and before nightfall Humphrey arrived at the pitfall, where they heard
Corbould groaning below
said Oswald, looking into the pit
replied the man
replied Corbould
Humphrey went for the ladder, which was at hand, and, with much
exertion on the part of the whole four of them, they contrived to drag
out Corbould, who groaned heavily with pain. A handkerchief was tied
tightly round his leg, to prevent any further bleeding, and they gave
him some water, which revived him
said Oswald
said Humphrey, walking with him aside
replied Oswald, who desired the men to wait till his
return, as he was going to borrow a cart, and then set off with
Humphrey.

As soon as they arrived at the cottage, Humphrey gave the pony to Pablo
to put into the stable and feed, and then communicated to Edward the
state of Corbould
observed
Oswald
replied Edward
said Oswald
continued Oswald, in an undertone
said Alice
replied Oswald
replied Humphrey
replied Oswald, laughing
replied
Humphrey
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied Oswald
replied Alice
Humphrey then went out to harness the pony, and when all was ready, he
and Oswald set off again.

When they arrived at the pitfall, they found Corbould lying between the
two other verderers, who were sitting by his side. Corbould was much
recovered since his wound had been bound up, and he was raised up and
put on the fodder which Humphrey had put into the cart; and they
proceeded on their journey to the other side of the forest, the
verderers eating what Humphrey had brought for them as they walked
along. It was a tedious and painful journey for the wounded man, who
shrieked out when the cart was jolted by the wheel getting into a rut
or hole; but there was no help for it, and he was very much exhausted
when they arrived, which was not till past midnight. Corbould was then
taken to his cottage and put on the bed, and another verderer sent for
a surgeon; those who had been with Oswald were glad to go to bed, for
it had been a fatiguing day. Humphrey remained with Oswald for three
hours, and then again returned with Billy, who, although he had crossed
the forest three times in the twenty-four hours, appeared quite fresh
and ready to go back again
Humphrey wished Oswald good-by; and Billy was so anxious to get back to
his stable, that Humphrey could not keep him at a quiet pace
thought Humphrey, as the pony trotted along. Humphrey
thought a good deal about the danger that Edward had been subjected to,
and said to himself
Thus thought Humphrey, as he went along; he was all for the farm and
improvements, and was always calculating when he should have another
calf, or a fresh litter of pigs. His first idea was that he would make
Pablo work hard, but the advice he had received from Oswald was not
forgotten; and he now was thinking how he should coax Pablo into
standing below in the sawpit, which was not only hard work, but
disagreeable from the sawdust falling into the eyes. Humphrey's
cogitations were interrupted by a halloo, and turning round in the
direction of the voice, he perceived Edward, and turned the cart to
join him
Humphrey helped Edward to put the venison in the cart, and they
returned to the cottage, which was not more than three miles off.
Humphrey told Edward the result of his journey, and then proposed that
Edward should stop at home for a few days and help him with the new
inclosure. To this Edward cheerfully consented; and as soon as they
arrived at the cottage, and Humphrey had his breakfast, they took their
axes and went out to fell at a cluster of small spruce-fir about a mile
off
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward, laughing
said Humphrey
continued Humphrey, throwing his ax and
bill-hook down, and proceeding to take off his doublet
Edward followed Humphrey's example in taking off his doublet; they
selected the long thin trees most fitted for rails, and were hard at
work when Pablo came up to them. More than a dozen trees had fallen,
and lay one upon the other, before they stopped a while to recover
themselves a little
said Humphrey, wiping his forehead
Edward and Humphrey then recommenced their labor, and worked for
another half hour, when they paused to recover their wind
said Humphrey
replied Pablo, nodding
said Edward
said Pablo
said
Pablo, taking up the bill-hook and setting to work to cut off the
boughs, which he did with great dexterity and rapidity.

Edward and Humphrey exchanged glances and smiles, and then worked away
in silence till it was, as they supposed, dinner time. They were not
wrong in their supposition, although they had no other clock than their
appetites, which, however, tell the time pretty correctly to those who
work hard. Alice had the platters on the table, and was looking out to
see if they were coming
said Edith
said
Edward
said
Humphrey
replied the boy
said Edith, patting his head
with a patronizing air
said Humphrey, laughing.

After dinner they continued their labor, and by supper time had so many
trees cut down, that they determined to carry home the next day, and
lay them along to see how many more they would want. While they put the
trees in the cart and took them home, Pablo contrived to lop off the
boughs and prepare the poles for them to take away. As soon as they had
cut down sufficient and carted them home, they then selected shorter
trees for posts; and when Pablo had cleared them of the boughs, they
sawed them out the proper lengths, and then carted them home. This
occupied nearly the whole week, and then they proceeded to dig holes
and set the posts in. The railing was then to be nailed to the posts,
and that occupied them three days more; so that it was altogether a
fortnight of hard work before the three acres were inclosed
said Humphrey
said Edward
said Alice
said Humphrey
said Alice
replied Edward
Early the next morning Edward took his gun, and, with Pablo and Smoker,
set off for Oswald's cottage.

Edward talked a great deal with Pablo relative to his former life; and,
by the answers which the boy gave him, was satisfied that,
notwithstanding his doubtful way of bringing up, the lad was not
corrupted, but was a well-minded boy. As they walked through a grove of
trees, Edward still talking, Pablo stopped and put his hand before
Edward's mouth, and then stooping down, at the same time seizing Smoker
by the neck, he pointed with his finger. Edward at first could see
nothing, but eventually he made out the horns of an animal just rising
above a hillock. It was evidently one of the wild cattle. Edward cocked
his gun and advanced cautiously, while Pablo remained where he was,
holding Smoker. As soon as he was near enough to hit the head of the
animal, Edward leveled and fired, and Pablo let Smoker loose, who
bounded forward over the hillock. They followed the dog and found him
about to seize a calf which stood by a heifer that Edward had shot.
Edward called him over and went up to the animal; it was a fine young
heifer, and the calf was not more than a fortnight old
said Edward
No further adventure happened, and they arrived a little after noon at
Oswald's cottage. He was not at home, his wife saying that she believed
that he was with the intendant, who had come back from London the day
before
said the young woman.

In a few minutes she returned with Oswald
said Oswald, as Edward extended
his hand
said Edward
replied Edward
replied Oswald
said Edward
replied Oswald
Oswald's wife then put before him a large pie, and some wheaten bread,
with a biggin of good beer. Edward helped Pablo to a large allowance,
and then filled his own platter; while thus occupied, Oswald Partridge
had left the cottage, as agreed
replied Pablo
replied the gipsy, getting up
said Edward.

Pablo nodded his head and disappeared.

A few minutes afterward, Oswald made his appearance
and Edward then stated how he
had killed the heifer, and wanted to obtain the calf
replied Edward
Edward sighed
replied Edward
replied Edward, after a pause
continued Edward, taking up the biggin and drinking
a large draught of beer
replied Oswald
Edward retired to bed, but not to sleep. The Scots had proclaimed the
king, and invited him over
thought Edward
Edward made up his
resolution to join the army, as soon as he should hear that the king
had landed; and what with considering how he should be able so to do,
and afterward building castles as to what he would do, it was long
before he fell asleep; and when he did he dreamed of battles and
victory -- he was charging at the head of his troops -- he was surrounded
by the dying and the dead. He was wounded, and he was somehow or other
well again, as if by magic; and then the scene was changed, and he was
rescuing Patience Heatherstone from his own lawless men, and preserving
the life of her father, which was about to be sacrificed; and at last
he awoke, and found that the daylight peeped through the windows, and
that he had slept longer than he intended to do. He arose and dressed
himself quickly, and, not waiting for breakfast, went to the kennel,
released Smoker from his durance, and set off on his return.

Before nine o'clock, he had arrived at the spot where the heifer lay
dead. He found the calf still by its side, bleating and walking round
uneasily. As he approached with the dog, it went to a farther distance,
and there remained. Edward took out his knife and commenced skinning
the heifer, and then took out the inside. The animal was quite fresh
and good, but not very fat, as may be supposed. While thus occupied,
Smoker growled and then sprung forward, bounding away in the direction
of the cottage, and Edward thought Humphrey was at hand. In a few
minutes, the pony and cart appeared between the trees, with Humphrey
and Pablo in it, and Smoker leaping up at his friend Billy
said Edward
said Humphrey
said Pablo
Pablo went to the cart, and took out a long small cord, which Humphrey
had brought with them, and made a noose at one end; he coiled the rope
in his hand, and then threw it out to its full length, by way of trial
Pablo had his rope again
coiled in his hand, and then went round to the other side of the calf,
which still remained lowing at about two hundred yards' distance
cried Pablo.

Humphrey set Smoker upon the calf, which retreated from the dog,
presenting his head to run at it; and Pablo kept behind the animal,
while Smoker attacked it, and drove it near to him.

As soon as the calf, which was so busy with the dog that it did not
perceive Pablo, came sufficiently near to him, Pablo threw his rope,
and caught the loop round the animal's neck. The calf set off galloping
toward Humphrey, and dragging Pablo after him, for the latter was not
strong enough to hold it.

Humphrey went to his assistance, and then Edward; and the calf was
thrown down by Smoker, who seized it by the neck, and it was tied and
put on the cart in a few minutes
said Edward
said Humphrey
Pablo look pleased, but said nothing.

The meat and hide were put into the cart, with some of the offal which
Alice had asked for the dogs, and they set off on their return home.

Humphrey was very anxious to go to Lymington, and was not sorry that he
had some meat to take with him: he determined to get off the next
morning, and Edward proposed that he should take Pablo with him, that
he might know the way there in case of any emergency, for they both
felt that Pablo could be trusted. Edward said he would remain at home
with his sisters, and see if he could be of any use to Alice; if not,
there would be work in the garden. Humphrey and Pablo went away after
breakfast, with Billy, and the meat and skin of the heifer in the cart.
Humphrey had also a large basket of eggs and three dozen of chickens
from Alice to be disposed of, and a list as long as the tail of a kite,
of articles which she and Edith required; fortunately there was nothing
very expensive on the list, long as it was -- but women in those days
required needles, pins, buttons, tapes, thread, worsted, and a hundred
other little necessaries, as they do now. As soon as they were gone,
Edward, who was still castle-building, instead of offering his services
to Alice, brought out his father's sword and commenced cleaning it.
When he had polished it up to his satisfaction, he felt less inclined
than ever to do any thing; so after dinner he took his gun and walked
out into the forest that he might indulge in his reveries. He walked
on, quite unconscious of the direction in which he was going, and more
than once finding his hat knocked off by the branch of a tree which he
had not perceived -- for the best of all possible reasons, because his
eyes were cast on the ground -- when his ears were saluted with the
neighing of a horse. He looked up and perceived that he was near to a
herd of forest ponies, the first that he had seen since he had lived in
the forest.

This roused him, and he looked about him
thought Edward
Edward then surveyed the whole herd of ponies, which
were at no great distance from him. There was a fine horse or two among
them, which appeared to be the leaders of the herd. They allowed Edward
to approach to within two hundred yards, and then, with manes and tails
streaming in the air, they darted off with the rapidity of the wind
thought Edward
Edward then hurried in a direction which he
considered might lead him homeward, and walked fast; but he once more
fell into his habit of castle-building, and was talking to himself
Thus he went on, again absorbed in the news
which he had gained from Oswald, till on a sudden he again recollected
himself, and perceived that he had lost sight of the copse of trees on
a high hill, to which he had been directing his steps. Where was it? He
turned round and round, and at last found out that he had been walking
away from it
thought he
Edward waited until he could make out
Charles's Wain, which he well knew, and then the Polar Star. As soon as
he was certain of that, he resolved to travel by it due north, and he
did so, sometimes walking fast, and at others keeping up a steady trot
for a half a mile without stopping. As he was proceeding on his
travels, he observed, under some trees ahead of him, a spark of fire
emitted; he thought it was a glow-worm at first, but it was more like
the striking of a flint against steel; and as he saw it a second time,
he stopped that he might ascertain what it might be, before he advanced
farther
It was now very dark, as there was no moon, and the stars were often
obscured by the clouds, which were heavy and borne along by the wind,
which was very high. The light again appeared, and this time Edward
heard the clash of the flint against the steel, and he was quite
certain that it was somebody striking a light. He advanced very
cautiously, and arrived at a large tree, behind which he remained to
reconnoiter. The people, whoever they might be, were not more than
thirty yards from him; a light spread its rays for a moment or two, and
he could make out a figure kneeling and holding his hat to protect it
from the wind; then it burned brighter, and he saw that a lantern had
been lighted, and then again, of a sudden, all was dark: so Edward
immediately satisfied himself that a dark lantern had been lighted and
then closed. Who the parties might be, he of course had no idea; but he
was resolved that he would ascertain, if he could, before he accosted
them and asked his way
thought Edward
Edward then crept softly
nearer to them: the wind, which was strong, blew from where they were
to where Edward stood, so that there was less chance of their hearing
his approach.

Edward went on his hands and knees, and crawled through the fern until
he gained another tree, and within ten yards of them, and from where he
could hear what they might say. He was thus cautious, as he had been
told by Oswald that there were many disbanded soldiers who had taken up
their quarters in the forest, and had committed several depredations
upon the houses adjacent to it, always returning to the forest as a
rendezvous. Edward listened, and heard one say
replied the other
replied Benjamin
The two men then rose up; and the one whose name appeared to be Will
first examined if the candle in his dark lantern burned well; and then
they both set off, followed by Edward, who had heard quite enough to
satisfy him that they were bent upon a burglary, if not murder. Edward
followed them, so as to keep their forms indistinctly in sight, which
was as much as he could do at twenty yards' distance; fortunately the
wind was so high that they did not hear his footsteps, although he
often trod upon a rotten stick, which snapped as it broke in twain. As
near as Edward could guess, he had tracked them about three miles, when
they stopped, and he perceived that they were examining their pistols,
which they took from their belts. They then went on again, and entered
a small plantation of oak-trees, of about forty years' growth -- very
thick and very dark, with close underwood below. They followed each
other through a narrow path, until they came to a cleared place in the
middle of the plantation, in which there stood a low cottage,
surrounded with covert on every side, with the exception of some thirty
yards of land around it. All was still, and as dark as pitch; Edward
remained behind the trees, and when the two men again stopped, he was
not six feet from them. They consulted in a low tone but the wind was
so high that he could not distinguish what they said. At last they
advanced to the cottage, and Edward, still keeping within the trees,
shifted his position, so that he should be opposite the gable end of
the cottage. He observed one man to go up to the front door, while the
other went round to the door behind, as had been agreed. Edward threw
open the pan of the lock of the gun, and reprimed it, that he might be
sure, and then waited for what was to follow. He heard the man Will at
the front door, talking and asking for shelter in a plaintive but loud
voice; and shortly afterward he perceived a light through the chinks of
the shutters -- for Edward was continually altering his position to see
what was going on in the front and in the back. At one time, he thought
of leveling his gun and killing one of the men at once; but he could
not make up his mind to do that, as a burglary, although intended, had
not yet been committed; so he remained passive until the attack was
really made, when he resolved that he would come to the rescue. After
some minutes of entreaty that they would open the door, the man in
front commenced thumping and beating against it, as if he would make
them open the door by force; but this was to attract the attention of
those within, and divert it from the attempts that the other was making
to get in behind. Edward was aware of this; he now kept his eye upon
what was going on at the back. Advancing nearer -- which he ventured to
do now that both the men were so occupied -- he perceived that the fellow
had contrived to open the window close to the back door, and was
remaining quite close to it with a pistol in his hand, apparently not
wishing to run the risk of climbing in. Edward slipped under the eaves
of the cottage, not six feet from the man, who remained with his back
partly turned to him. Edward then, finding he had obtained this
position unperceived, crouched down with his gun ready pointed.

As Edward remained in this position, he heard a shrill voice cry out
and a movement in cottage. The man near
him, who had his pistol in his hand, put his arm through the window and
fired inside. A shriek was given, and Edward fired his gun into the
body of the man, who immediately fell. Edward lost no time in reloading
his gun, during which he heard the bursting open of the front door and
the report of firearms; then all was silent for a moment, excepting the
wailing of somebody within. As soon as his gun was reloaded, Edward
walked round to the front of the cottage, where he found the man who
was called Ben, lying across the threshold of the open door. He stepped
across the body, and, looking into the room within, perceived a body
stretched on the floor, and a young lad weeping over it
said Edward, going in to where the
body lay; and, taking the light which was at the farther end of the
chamber, he placed it on the floor, that he might examine the state of
the person, who was breathing heavily, and apparently badly wounded
said Edward
cried the boy, throwing back his long hair from his temples
said Edward
The boy ran up to fetch the water, and Edward discovered that the ball
had entered the neck above the collar-bone, and that the blood poured
out of the man's mouth, who was choking with the effusion. Although
ignorant of surgery, Edward thought that such a wound must be mortal;
but the man was not only alive but sensible, and although he could not
utter a word, he spoke with his eyes and with signs. He raised his hand
and pointed to himself first, and shook his head, as if to say that it
was all over with him; and then he turned round his head, as if looking
for the lad, who was now returning with the water. When the lad again
knelt by his side, weeping bitterly, the man pointed to him, and gave
such an imploring look that Edward immediately comprehended what he
wished: it was to ask protection for the boy. It could not be
misunderstood, and could Edward do otherwise than promise it to the
dying man? His generous nature could not refuse it, and he said
The man signified assent
The man raised his hand again, and a gleam of joy passed over his
features, as he took the hand of the lad and put it into that of
Edward. His eyes were then fixed upon Edward as if to scrutinize into
his character by his features, while the former bathed his temples and
washed the blood from his mouth with the water brought by the boy, who
appeared in a state of grief so violent as to paralyze his senses.
After a minute or two, another effusion of blood choked the wounded
man, who, after a short struggle, fell back dead
thought Edward
Edward, without giving an answer, went back to the room for the water,
which he took round to the man, and put it to his lips; he felt that he
was bound by humanity so to do to a dying man, scoundrel though he
might be. It was still dark, but not so dark as it had previously been,
for the late moon was just rising.

The man drank the water eagerly, and said
He then pulled the basin toward him again, and after he
had drank, ho said, in broken sentences
Then he paused
The
man again attempted to drink out of the basin proffered by Edward, but
as he made the attempt, he fell back with a groan.

Edward perceiving that he was dead, returned to the cottage to look
after the lad, who still remained prostrate and embracing the corpse in
the chamber. Edward then reflected upon what had best be done. After a
time, he decided upon dragging away the body of the robber named Ben
outside of the threshold, and then securing the door. This, with some
trouble, he effected, and he then made fast the window that had been
forced open behind. Before he removed the boy, who lay with his face
buried on the corpse, and appeared to be in a state of insensibility,
Edward examined the corpse as it lay. Although plainly dressed, yet it
was evident that it was not the body of a rustic; the features were
fair, and the beard was carefully cut; the hands were white, and the
fingers long, and evidently had never been employed in labor. That the
body was that of some superior person disguised as a rustic, was
evident, and this was corroborated by the conversation which took place
between the two robbers
thought Edward
Edward looked round, and
perceived that there was a bed in the adjoining room, the door of which
was open; he lifted up the boy, and carried him, still insensible, into
the room, and laid him on the bed. He then went for some more water,
which he found and threw into his face, and poured a little into his
mouth. Gradually the boy stirred, and recovered from his stupor, and
then Edward held the water to his mouth, and made him drink some, which
he did; and then, suddenly aroused to a recollection of what had
passed, the boy gave a shriek of woe, and burst into a paroxysm of
tears. This ended in convulsive sobbings and low moanings. Edward felt
that he could do no more at present, and that it would be better if he
was left for a time to give vent to his grief. Edward sat down on a
stool by the side of the orphan, and remained for some time in deep and
melancholy thought
thought he at last
Edward took up the candle and went into the room in which he had laid
the boy on the bed. He found him in a sound sleep
said
Edward
Edward then returned to the other room, and recollected, or, rather,
was reminded, that he had had no supper, and it was now nearly dawn of
day. He looked into a cupboard and found plenty of provisions, and some
flasks of wine
thought he
So ho brought out the viands and a flask of
wine, and made a hearty meal
thought he
The memory of the king raised other thoughts in Edward's
mind, and he again sunk into one of his reveries, which lasted till he
fell into a slumber. When he woke up, it was at the voice of the boy,
who in his sleep had cried out
Edward started up, and found
that the sun was an hour high, and that he must have slept some time.
He gently opened the cottage door, looked at the bodies of the two men,
and then walked out to survey the locality of the cottage, which he had
but faintly made out during the night. He found that it was surrounded
by a thicket of trees and underwood, so close and thick that there
appeared to him no outlet in any direction
thought Edward
Edward walked round by the
side of the thicket, to find out the track by which the robbers had
entered when he followed them, and at last succeeded in doing so. He
followed the path through the thicket until he was clear of it, and
again in the forest; but the scenery outside was unknown to him, and he
had not an idea as to what part of the forest it was in
thought Edward
As he was again turning into the
thicket, he heard a dog giving tongue, as if on a scent. It came nearer
and nearer to him, and Edward remained to see what it might be. In a
moment more, he perceived his own dog, Smoker, come bounding out of a
neighboring copse, followed by Humphrey and Pablo. Edward hallooed.
Smoker sprung toward him, leaping up, and loading him with caresses,
and in another moment he was in Humphrey's arms
said Humphrey, as the tears
started and rolled down his cheeks
Edward shook hands with Pablo, and thanked him
Edward then gave a succinct narration of what had occurred, and, having
thus prepared Humphrey and Pablo for what they were to see, led the way
back through the thicket to the cottage inside of it. Humphrey and
Pablo were much shocked at the scene of slaughter which presented
itself to their eyes; and, after having viewed the bodies, they began
to consult what had best be done.

The proposal of Edward, that Humphrey should go over and make known the
circumstances to Oswald, that they might be communicated to the
intendant, was readily acceded to; and Pablo, it was agreed, should go
home and tell Alice and Edith that Edward was safe
Humphrey and Pablo both set off, and then Edward went to waken the boy,
still lying on the bed
said the boy, who was awake when Edward went to him
replied the boy
said the boy, bursting into tears
replied the boy
cried the boy
said Edward, raising
him up in his arms
The boy rose up, and Edward closed the door of the chamber that he
might not see his father's corpse
replied the boy
Edward then took the counterpane off the bed, and went with it into the
next room. He gently drew the body to the corner of the room, and
covered it up with the counterpane, and then proceeded to examine the
cupboards, etc. In one he found a good store of books, in another there
was linen of all sorts, a great many curious arms, two suits of bright
armor such as was worn in those times, pistols, and guns, and
ammunition. On the floor of one of the cupboards was an iron chest
about two feet by eighteen inches. It was locked. Edward immediately
concluded that this chest held the money of the unfortunate man; but
where was the key? Most likely about his person. He did not like to
afflict the poor boy by putting the question to him, but he went to the
body and examined the pockets of the clothes; he found a bunch of
several keys, which he took, and then replaced the coverlid. He tried
one of the keys, which appeared to be of the right size, to the lock of
the iron chest, and found that it fitted it. Satisfied with this, he
did not raise the lid of the chest, but dragged it out into the center
of the room. There were many things of value about the room; the
candlesticks were silver, and there were goblets of the same metal.
Edward collected all these articles, and a timepiece, and put them into
a basket, of which there were two large ones at the end of the room,
apparently used for holding firewood. Every thing that he thought could
be useful, or of value, he gathered together for the benefit of the
poor orphan boy. He afterward went into another small room, where he
found sundry small trunks and cases locked up. These he brought out
without examining, as he presumed that they contained what was of
value, or they would not be locked. When he had collected every thing,
he found that he had already more than the cart could carry in one
trip; and he wanted to take some bedding with him, as he had not a
spare bed in the cottage to give to the boy. Edward decided in his own
mind that he would take the most valuable articles away that night, and
return with the cart for the remainder early on the following morning.
It was now past noon, and Edward took out of the cupboard what victuals
were left, and then went into the chamber where the boy was, and begged
that he would eat something. The poor boy said that he had no appetite;
but Edward insisted and at last prevailed upon him to eat some bread
and drink a glass of wine, which proved of great service to him. The
poor fellow shuddered as he saw the body covered up in the corner of
the room, but said nothing. Edward was trying to make him eat a little
more, when Pablo made his appearance at the door
said Edward
Pablo made signs, and pointed to the door. Edward went out
replied Edward
Edward and Pablo pulled the body of the robber on one side of the
doorway, and threw over it some dried fern which lay by; they then
backed the cart down to the door; the iron chest was first got in, then
all the heavy articles, such as armor, guns, and books, etc., and by
that time the cart was more than half loaded. Edward then went into the
chamber, and brought out the packages the boy had made up, and put them
all in the cart until it was loaded high up; they brought out some
blankets, and laid over all to keep things steady; and then Edward told
the boy that all was ready, and that they had better go
replied he, with streaming eyes
said Edward, leading him to the corpse, and uncovering
the face.

The boy knelt down, kissed the forehead and cold lips, covered up the
face again, and then rose and wept bitterly on Edward's shoulder.
Edward did not attempt to check his sorrow, he thought it better it
should have vent; but, after a time, he led the boy by degrees till
they were out of the cottage
said Edward
replied the boy, wiping away his tears
said Pablo
And so it proved to be; and it required all the united efforts of
Billy, Edward, and Pablo to force a passage for the cart through the
narrow pathway; but at last it was effected, and then they went on at a
quick pace, and in less than two hours the cottage was in sight. When
within two hundred yards of it, Edith, who had been on the watch, came
bounding out, and flew into Edward's arms, and covered him with kisses
Edith extended her hand as she looked into the boy's face
said Pablo
said Edward, kissing her
said Alice, looking at the boy, who was blushing deeply
replied the boy
replied he, confused.

They arrived at the cottage, and Edward and Pablo were busy unpacking
the cart, and putting all the contents into the inner chamber, where
Pablo now slept, when Alice, who, with Edith, had been talking to the
boy, came to Edward and said
replied Edward, astonished
replied Edward
said Alice,
laughing
Alice returned to her new companion, and Edward and Pablo continued to
unload the cart
replied Pablo
At last every thing was out of the cart, the iron chest dragged into
Pablo's room, and Billy put into his stable and given his supper, which
he had well earned, for the cart had been very heavily loaded. They
then all sat down to supper, Edward saying to their new acquaintance
and she burst into tears.

Alice and Edith kissed her and consoled her, and she became calm again.
After supper was over, they busied themselves making arrangements for
her sleeping in their room, and then they went to prayers
said Edward
And as Edward prayed, little Clara knelt and sobbed, while Alice
caressed her with her arm round her waist, and stopped at times her
prayer to kiss and console her. When they had finished, Alice led her
away to her bedroom, followed by Edith, and they put her to bed. Edward
and Pablo also retired, both worn out by the fatigue and excitement of
the day.

They were up on the following morning at day-dawn, and, putting Billy
in the cart, set off for the cottage of Clara. They found every thing
as they had left it, and, having loaded the cart with what had been
left behind the day before, and bedding for two beds, with several
articles of furniture which Edward thought might be useful, there being
still a little room left, Edward packed up, in a wooden case with dried
fern, all the wine that was in the cupboard; and, having assisted Pablo
in forcing the cart once more through the path in the wood, he left him
to return home with the cart, while he remained to wait the arrival of
Humphrey, and whoever might come with him from the intendant's. About
ten o'clock, as he was watching outside of the wood, he perceived
several people approaching him, and soon made out that Humphrey, the
intendant, and Oswald were among the number. When they came up to him,
Edward saluted the intendant in a respectful manner, and shook hands
with Oswald, and then led the way by the narrow path which led through
the wood to the cottage. The intendant was on horseback, but all the
rest were on foot.

The intendant left his horse to the care of one of the verderers, and
went through the wood on foot with the rest of the party, preceded by
Edward. He appeared to be very grave and thoughtful, and Edward thought
that there was a coolness in his manner toward himself -- for it must be
recollected that Mr. Heatherstone had not seen Edward since he had
rendered him such service in saving the life of his daughter. The
consequence was that Edward felt somewhat indignant; but he did not
express his feelings, by his looks even, but conveyed the party in
silence to the cottage. On their arrival, Edward pointed to the body of
the robber, which had been covered with fern, and the verderers exposed
it
said the intendant
Edward then led the way round to the back of the cottage where the
other robber lay
replied Edward
continued Edward, leading the way into
the cottage, and uncovering the corpse of Clara's father.

Mr. Heatherstone looked at the face and appeared much moved
said he, turning away; and then sitting down on a chair close to
the table
he said
The intendant called his clerk, who had accompanied him, and desired
him to get ready his writing materials, and then said
Edward then commenced by stating
replied Edward
Edward met with no more interruption in his narrative. He stated
briefly all that had taken place, from the time he fell in with the
robbers till the winding up of the catastrophe.

The clerk took down all that Edward had stated, and then read it over
to him to ascertain if he had written it down correctly, and then
inquired of Edward
replied Edward, taking the pen and signing his name.

The clerk stared, and then said
replied Edward
said the
intendant
said the intendant
The intendant paused, and then said
interrupted Edward
replied the intendant
replied Edward
replied the intendant
added Edward
replied Edward
said Edward
Edward went out with the rest, and, calling Humphrey aside, said to
him
Humphrey nodded and turned away, and Edward re-entered the cottage.

He found the intendant was standing over the corpse; he had removed the
coverlid, and was looking mournfully down on the face disfigured with
blood. Perceiving the entrance of Edward, he again took his seat at the
table, and after a pause said
The intendant smiled
replied Edward
The intendant then went out and said to the party
replied Edward, somewhat gloomily
said the intendant aside.

They then proceeded through the wood; the intendant mounted his horse,
and they set off for the cottage, where they arrived at about two
o'clock in the afternoon
Humphrey came out as soon as he perceived the intendant and his party
approaching, and whispered to Edward that all was safe. The intendant
dismounted, and ordering every body but his clerk to wait outside, was
ushered into the cottage by Edward. Alice, Edith, and Pablo were in the
room; the two girls were not a little flushed and frightened by the
unusual appearance of so large a party of strangers
said Edward
said the intendant,
looking earnestly at the two girls
replied Edward
The boxes were brought out, opened, and examined by the intendant and
his clerk, but of course no papers were found in them
said the
intendant
said Alice.

Two of the people, assisted by the clerk, then searched the house; they
found nothing worthy of notice, except the weapons and armor which
Edward had removed, and which he stated to the intendant that he took
away as valuable property belonging to the little girl
said the intendant to his clerk
The clerk and the others left the cottage, and the intendant desired
Edward to bring Clara from the bedroom. She came out, accompanied by
and clinging indeed to Alice, for she was much alarmed
said the intendant, gently
replied Clara, sobbing
replied Clara, with surprise
replied Clara
replied Clara
Clara, who was no longer alarmed, looked on the intendant's face, and
then said
replied the intendant, pressing Clara to
his bosom
replied Edward
said the intendant, extending
his hand to him
The intendant then went out of the cottage, and joined his people
outside. Edward went out after him; and as the intendant mounted his
horse, he said very coldly to Edward
With these words the intendant put the spurs to his horse, and rode
away
said Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
The two brothers had a long conversation that evening, in which Edward
made Humphrey acquainted with all that had passed between him and the
intendant
said Humphrey
replied Edward, laughing
The next day they dug up the iron chest and the box into which Humphrey
had put all the papers he had collected together. Edward opened the
iron chest, and found in it a considerable quantity of gold in bags,
and many trinkets and jewels which he did not know the value of. The
papers he did not open, but resolved that they should be given to the
intendant, for Edward felt that he could trust in him. The other boxes
and trunks were also opened and examined, and many other articles of
apparent value discovered
said Edward
replied Edward
said Edward,
laughing
replied Humphrey
Three days after this conversation, Oswald Partridge made his
appearance, having been sent by the intendant to tell Edward that he
should come over on the following day to take away little Clara
said Edward
replied Clara
said Oswald
continued
Oswald to Edward
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied Oswald
replied Edward
Edward did not think it right to tell Oswald what he knew, as it was a
secret confided to him by the intendant, and therefore merely
observed
and then the conversation dropped.

As Oswald had informed them, the intendant made his appearance in the
forenoon of the following day, and was accompanied by his daughter, who
rode by his side. A groom, on horse, led a pony for Clara to ride; and
a cart for the luggage followed at some distance. Edward went out to
assist Miss Heatherstone to dismount, and she frankly extended her hand
to him as she reached the ground. Edward was a little surprised as well
as pleased, at this condescension on her part toward a forester
said he, bowing
replied
Patience
said she, in a low voice
Edward led the way into the cottage, and Patience followed him, while
the intendant was in conversation with Humphrey. Edward, having
introduced his sisters and Clara, then went out to pay his respects to
the intendant, who, now they were alone, was very candid toward both
him and Humphrey.

Edward then told the intendant that there was an iron chest with a good
deal of money in it, and jewels also, and many other articles of value
in the other boxes
replied Humphrey
said Edward, presenting them
Edward bowed, and the intendant went into the cottage.

Edward then assisted Humphrey and Pablo to get the iron chest on the
cart, and covered it with the other packages and boxes, till the cart
was well loaded. Leaving Pablo in charge till Oswald came from the
stables, Edward and Humphrey then went into the cottage, where they
found a very social party; Patience Heatherstone having succeeded in
making great friends with the other three girls, and the intendant, to
Edward's surprise, laughing and joking with them. Alice and Edith had
brought out some milk, biscuits, and all the fruit that was ripe, with
some bread, a cold piece of salt beef, and a ham; and they were eating
as well as talking
said the
intendant
replied Edward
replied the intendant, dryly
replied Humphrey
replied the intendant
They all went out of the cottage. The intendant put Clara on the pony,
after she had kissed Alice and Edith. Edward assisted Patience; and
when she was mounted, she said
replied Edward
replied Patience
replied she
Edward bowed, and then turned to the intendant, who had apparently been
waiting while the conversation was going on. The intendant bade him a
cordial farewell; Edward shook Clara by the hand, and the cavalcade set
off. They all remained outside of the cottage till the party were at
some distance, and then Edward walked apart with Humphrey, to
communicate to him the offer made by the intendant, and ask his opinion
replied Humphrey
replied Humphrey
Edward thought of the smile she gave him when they parted but an hour
ago, and agreed with Humphrey, but he replied
The brothers then parted, and Edward then walked about, turning over in
his mind the events of the day, and very often finding his thoughts
broken in upon by sudden visions of Patience Heatherstone -- and
certainly the remembrance of her was to him the most satisfactory and
pleasing portion of the prospect in his offered situation
thought he
So thought Edward, as he paced before the cottage,
until he was summoned in by Pablo to their evening meal
said Edith
Pablo laughed
said Pablo
said Edward
By this conversation it will appear to the reader that they had been
trying to impress Pablo with the principles of the Christian
religion -- and such was the case; Edith having been one of the most
active in the endeavor, although very young for a missionary. However,
Alice and Humphrey had been more successful, and Pablo was now
beginning to comprehend what they had attempted to instill, and was
really progressing dayly.

Edward remained at the cottage, expecting to bear some message from the
intendant. He was right in his conjecture, for, on the third day,
Oswald Partridge came over to say that the intendant would be happy to
see him, if he could make it convenient to go over; which Edward
assented to do on the following day. Oswald had ridden over on a pony;
Edward arranged to take Billy and return with him. They started early
the next morning, and Edward asked Oswald if he knew why the intendant
had sent for him
replied Oswald
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied Oswald
The conversation then changed, and, after a ride of eight hours, they
arrived at the intendant's house. Edward gave Billy into Oswald's
charge, and knocked at the door. Phoebe let him in, and asked him into
the sitting-room, where he found the intendant alone
replied Edward
replied Edward, looking at
his forester's dress
replied the intendant
replied
Edward
replied the intendant
replied Edward
Mr. Heatherstone then opened the door, and saying to his daughter
Patience
he ushered Edward in, and closed the door again. Clara
ran up to Edward as soon as he went in, and having kissed him, Edward
then took Patience's offered hand
said Patience, inquiringly
replied Edward
said Clara
said Clara
said Edward, although he felt
that such would not be the case, having been accustomed to much better
clothes when at Arnwood than what were usually worn by secretaries; and
this remembrance brought back Arnwood in its train, and Edward became
silent and pensive.

Patience observed it, and after a time said
said Clara
replied Edward, with a
grave smile
replied Clara
said Clara
replied she
replied Clara
said Patience
continued Patience, wishing to change
the subject of conversation
said Patience,
with a little mock ceremony.

Edward did so without replying, and was ushered into a large airy room,
very neatly furnished
said Patience
said Clara
replied Edward
said Clara, with
the tears starting in her eyes at his memory
Edward turned round to
Patience, and perceived that her eyes were fixed upon him, as if she
would have read his thoughts. Edward smiled, and said
said she
Patience smiled and made no reply
said she. As they
were going back into the sitting-room, she said
replied
Edward
inquired Patience
said Edward,
smiling
replied Edward
said Clara
said
Clara
replied Mr. Heatherstone, kissing Clara
Mr. Heatherstone, as was usual at that time with the people to whose
party he ostensibly belonged, said a grace before meat, of considerable
length, and then they sat down to table. As soon as the repast was
over, Mr. Heatherstone returned to his study, and Edward went out to
find Oswald Partridge, with whom he remained the larger portion of the
afternoon, going to the kennel and examining the dogs, and talking of
matters connected with the chase
observed Oswald
replied Edward
Edward bade Oswald farewell, and returned to the intendant's, and found
that Oswald was correct, as supper was being placed on the table.

Soon after supper, Phoebe and the men-servants were summoned, and
prayers offered up by the intendant, after which Patience and Clara
retired. Edward remained in conversation with the intendant for about
an hour, and then was conducted by him to his room, which had already
been shown to him by Patience.

Edward did not sleep much that night. The novelty of his situation -- the
novelty of his prospects, and his speculations thereon, kept him awake
till near morning: he was, however, up in good time, and having
assisted at the morning prayers, and afterward eaten a most substantial
breakfast, he took his leave of the intendant and the two girls, and
set off on his return to the cottage, having renewed his promise of
coming on the following Monday to take up his abode with them. Billy
was fresh, and cantered gayly along, so that Edward was back early in
the afternoon, and once more welcomed by his household. He stated to
Humphrey all that had occurred, and Humphrey was much pleased at Edward
having accepted the offer of the intendant. Alice and Edith did not
quite so much approve of it, and a few tears were shed at the idea of
Edward leaving the cottage. The next day, Edward and Humphrey set off
for Lymington, with Billy in the cart
said Humphrey
replied
Edward
On their arrival at Lymington, they went straight to the hostelry, and
found the landlord at home. He recommended a tailor to Edward, who sent
for him to the inn, and was measured by him for a plain suit of dark
cloth. Edward and Humphrey then went out, as Edward had to procure
boots, and many other articles of dress, to correspond with the one
which he was about to assume
said Edward
said Humphrey
said Humphrey
replied
Edward, laughing
Edward chose a hat and a plain sword-belt, paid for them, and desired
the man to carry them to the hostelry.

While all these purchases on the part of Edward, and many others by
Humphrey, such as nails, saws, tools, and various articles which Alice
required for the household, were gathered together, the landlord had
sent out to inquire for the goats, and found out at what price they
were to be procured. Humphrey left Edward to put away these in the
cart, while he went out a second time to see the goats; he made an
agreement with the man who had them for sale, for a male and three
females with two kids each at their sides, and ten more female kids
which had just been weaned. The man engaged to drive them from
Lymington as far as the road went into the forest, on the following
day, when Humphrey would meet them, pay him his money, and drive them
to the cottage, which would be only three miles from the place agreed
upon. Having settled that satisfactorily, he returned to Edward, who
was all ready, and they went back home
said Humphrey
replied Humphrey
replied Humphrey
Thus did they continue talking over matters till they arrived at the
cottage. Alice came out to them, saying to Humphrey
Humphrey had forgotten them, but he replied
continued Humphrey, taking the long saw out of the cart
The cart was soon unloaded, Billy taken out and turned out to feed, and
then they went in to the supper.

Humphrey was off the next morning, with Pablo, at an early hour, to
meet the farmer of whom he had purchased the goats and kids. He found
them punctual to the time, at the place agreed upon; and being
satisfied with the lot, paid the farmer his money, and drove them home
through the forest
said Pablo
replied Pablo, laughing
replied Humphrey
replied Pablo
replied Humphrey
The flock of goats were much admired, and the next morning were driven
out into the forest to feed, attended by Pablo and Holdfast. When it
was dinner time, Pablo drove the flock near to the cottage, telling the
dog to mind them. The sensible animal remained at once with the goats
until Pablo's return from dinner; and it may be as well to observe
here, that in a few days the dog took charge of them altogether,
driving them home to the yard every evening; and as soon as the goats
were put into the yard, the dog had his supper; and the dog took care,
therefore, not to be too late. To return to our narrative.

On Saturday, Humphrey and Pablo went to Lymington, to bring home
Edward's clothes, and Humphrey made Pablo acquainted with all that he
wanted to know, in case it might be necessary to send Pablo there alone.

Edward remained with his sisters, as he was to leave them on the Monday.

Sunday was passed as usual; they read the service at old Armitage's
grave, and afterward they walked in the forest; for Sunday was the only
day on which Alice could find time to leave her duties in the cottage.
They were not more grave than usual at the idea of Edward's leaving
them; but they kept up their spirits, as they were aware that it was
for the advantage of all.

On Monday morning, Edward, to please his sisters, put on his new
clothes, and put his forester's dress in the bundle with his linen.
Alice and Edith thought he looked very well in them, and said that it
reminded them of the days of Arnwood. The fact was, that Edward
appeared as he was -- a gentleman born; that could not well be concealed
under a forester's dress, and in his present attire it was undeniable.
After breakfast, Billy was harnessed and brought to the cottage-door.
Edward's linen was put in the cart, and as he had agreed with Humphrey,
he took only Smoker with him, leaving the puppy at the cottage. Pablo
went with him, to bring back the cart. Edward kissed his sisters, who
wept at the idea of his leaving them, and, shaking hands with Humphrey,
he set off to cross the forest
thought Edward, as he drove across
the forest
Perhaps, had Edward put the question to himself
he might then have
discovered what was the "spell upon him" which had rendered him so
tractable; but of that he had no idea. He only felt that his situation
would be rendered more comfortable by the society of an amiable and
handsome girl, and he inquired no further.

His revery was broken by Pablo, who appeared tired of holding his
tongue, and said
Edward laughed at this blunt observation of Pablo's, and replied
replied Pablo, taking hold of Edward's wrist
replied Pablo, laughing
said Edward
said Pablo, laughing
When Edward arrived at the intendant's house, he was very kindly
received by the intendant and the two girls. Having deposited his
wardrobe in his bedroom, he went out to Oswald and put Smoker in the
kennel, and on his return found Pablo sitting on the carpet in the
sitting-room, talking to Patience and Clara, and they all three
appeared much amused. When Pablo and Billy had both had something to
eat, the cart was filled with pots of flowers, and several, other
little things as presents from Patience Heatherstone, and Pablo set off
on his return
said Clara, stopping
added Edward
continued
Clara
replied Clara
Patience Heatherstone, however, did not make any answer to this second
appeal made by Clara
said Clara
said Edward, laughing
Edward then changed the conversation. Soon afterward dinner was
announced, and Clara again observed to Edward
said Clara, appealing to the intendant
replied Mr.
Heatherstone
observed
Patience
said Clara
In a few days, Edward became quite at home. In the forenoon, Mr.
Heatherstone dictated one or two letters to him, which he wrote; and
after that his time was at his own disposal, and was chiefly passed in
the company of Patience and Clara. With the first he had now become on
the most intimate and brotherly footing; and when they addressed each
other, Patience and Edward were the only appellations made use of. Once
Mr. Heatherstone asked Edward whether he would not like to go out with
Oswald to kill a deer, which he did; but the venison was hardly yet in
season. There was a fine horse in the stable at Edward's order, and he
often rode out with Patience and Clara; indeed his time passed so
agreeably that he could hardly think it possible that a fortnight had
passed away, when he asked permission to go over to the cottage and see
his sisters. With the intendant's permission, Patience and Clara
accompanied him; and the joy of Alice and Edith was great when they
made their appearance. Oswald had, by Edward's request, gone over a day
or two before, to tell them that they were coming, that they might be
prepared; and the consequence was, that it was a holyday at the
cottage. Alice had cooked her best dinner, and Humphrey and Pablo were
at home to receive them
said Alice to Patience
said Edith
replied Patience
said Edith
said Patience
And Patience did as she proposed, and the dinner was soon afterward on
the table. There was a ham, and two boiled fowls, and a piece of salted
beef, and some roasted kid, besides potatoes and green peas; and when
it is considered that such a dinner was bet on the table by such young
people left entirely to their own exertions and industry, it must be
admitted that it did then and their farm great credit.

In the mean time, Edward and Humphrey, after the first greetings were
over, had walked out to converse, while Pablo had taken the horses into
the stable
replied Humphrey
said Edward
said Edward, smiling
said Humphrey
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward, laughing
replied Humphrey
Now that they had become so intimate with Patience Heatherstone -- and, I
may add, so fond of her -- there was no longer any restraint, and they
had a very merry dinner party; and after dinner, Patience went out with
Alice and Edith, and looked over the garden and farm. She wished very
much to ascertain if there was any thing that they required, but she
could discover but few things, and those only trifles; but she
recollected them all, and sent them to the cottage a few days
afterward. But the hour of parting arrived, for it was a long ride
back, and they could not stay any longer if they wished to get home
before dark, as Mr. Heatherstone had requested Edward that they should
do; so the horses were brought out, and wishing good-by, they set off
again -- little Edith crying after them
The summer had now advanced, when Oswald one day said to Edward
replied Edward
replied Oswald
replied Edward
said Edward, at the
Edward, much excited by the intelligence, went into the room where he
usually sat with the intendant. The latter, who was at his desk, looked
up, and saw how flushed Edward was, and said very quietly
replied the intendant
Edward took a chair, and the intendant said
replied
the intendant
The intendant handed three letters to Edward, by which it was evident
that all the king's friends in England were of opinion that the time
was not ripe for the attempt, and that it would be only a sacrifice to
stir in the matter; that the Scotch army raised was composed of those
who were the greatest enemies to the king, and that the best thing that
could happen for the king's interest would be that they were destroyed
by Cromwell; that it was impossible for the English adherents of
Charles to join them, and that the Scotch did not wish them so to do
said the intendant, smiling, as Edward
laid the letters down on the table
Edward left the intendant, much pleased with the interview. The
intendant kept his word, and concealed nothing from Edward. All turned
out as the intendant had foretold. The Scotch army was cut to pieces by
Cromwell, and the king retreated to the Highlands; and Edward now felt
satisfied that he could do no better than be guided by the intendant in
all his future undertakings.

We must now pass over some time in a few words. Edward continued at the
intendant's, and gave great satisfaction to Mr. Heatherstone. He passed
his time very agreeably, sometimes going out to shoot deer with Oswald,
and often supplying venison to his brother and sisters at the cottage.
During the autumn, Patience very often went to the cottage, and
occasionally Mr. Heatherstone paid them a visit; but after the winter
set in, Edward came over by himself, shooting as he went; and when he
and Smoker came to the cottage, Billy always had a journey to go for
the venison left in the forest. Patience sent Alice many little things
for the use of her and Edith, and some very good books for them to
read; and Humphrey, during the evenings, read with his sisters, that
they might learn what he could teach them. Pablo also learned to read
and write. Humphrey and Pablo had worked at the saw-pit, and had sawed
out a large quantity of boards and timber for building, but the
building was put off till the spring.

The reader may recollect that Edward had proposed to Humphrey that he
should ascertain whether what the robber had stated before his death
relative to his having concealed his ill-gotten wealth under the tree
which was struck by lightning was true. About ten days afterward
Humphrey set off on this expedition. He did not take Pablo with him,
as, although he had a very good opinion of him, he agreed with Oswald
that temptation should not be put in his way. Humphrey considered that
it would be the best plan to go at once to Clara's cottage, and from
that proceed to find the oak-tree mentioned by the robber. When he
arrived at the thicket which surrounded the cottage, it occurred to him
that he would just go through it and see if it was in the state which
they had left it in; for after the intendant had been there, he had
given directions to his men to remain and bury the bodies, and then to
lock up the doors of the cottage, and bring the keys to him, which had
been done. Humphrey tied Billy and the cart to a tree, and walked
through the thicket. As he approached the cottage he heard voices; this
induced him to advance very carefully, for he had not brought his gun
with him. He crouched down as he came to the opening before the
cottage. The doors and windows were open, and there were two men
sitting outside, cleaning their guns; and in one of them Humphrey
recognized the man Corbould, who had been discharged by the intendant
as soon as his wound had been cured, and who was supposed to have gone
to London. Humphrey was too far off to hear what they said; he remained
there some time, and three more men came out of the cottage. Satisfied
with what he had seen, Humphrey cautiously retreated, and, gaining the
outside of the thicket, led away Billy and the cart over the turf, that
the noise of the wheels might not be heard
thought Humphrey as he went along, every now and
then looking back to ascertain if the men had come out and seen him
As soon
as a clump of trees had shut out the thicket, and he had no longer any
fear of being seen by these people, Humphrey went in the direction
which the robber had mentioned, and soon afterward he perceived the oak
scathed with lightning, which stood by itself on a green spot of about
twenty acres. It had been a noble tree before it had been destroyed;
now it spread its long naked arms, covering a large space of ground,
but without the least sign of vegetation or life remaining. The trunk
was many feet in diameter, and was apparently quite sound, although the
tree was dead. Humphrey left Billy to feed on the herbage close by, and
then, from the position of the sun in the heavens, ascertained the
point at which he was to dig. First looking around him to see that he
was not overlooked, he took his spade and pick-ax out of the cart and
begun his task. There was a spot not quite so green as the rest, which
Humphrey thought likely to be the very place that he should dig at, as
probably it was not green from the soil having been removed. He
commenced at this spot, and, after a few moments' labor, his pick-ax
struck upon something hard, which, on clearing away the earth, he
discovered to be a wooden lid of a box. Satisfied that he was right,
Humphrey now worked hard, and in a few minutes he had cleared away
sufficiently to be able to lift out the box and place it on the turf.
He was about to examine it, when he perceived, at about five hundred
yards' distance, three men coming toward him
thought Humphrey
He ran to
Billy, who was close to him, and bringing the cart to where the box
lay, he lifted it in. As he was getting in himself, with the reins in
his hands, he perceived that the three men were running toward him as
fast as they could, and that they all had guns in their hands. They
were not more than a hundred and fifty yards from him when Humphrey set
off, putting Billy to a full trot.

The three men, observing this, called out to Humphrey to stop, or they
would fire; but Humphrey's only reply was giving a lash to Billy, which
set him off at a gallop. The men immediately fired, and the bullets
whistled past Humphrey without doing any harm. Humphrey looked round,
and finding that he had increased his distance, pulled up the pony, and
went at a more moderate pace
thought Humphrey
He made
Billy walk, and turned round to see what the men were about; they had
arrived at where he had dug out the box, and were standing round the
hole, evidently aware that it was no use following him
thought
Humphrey as he went along at a faster pace
Humphrey considered, as he went along, all the
circumstances and probabilities, and decided that he would act as he at
first proposed to himself. In an hour he was at the cottage; and as
soon as Alice had given him his dinner -- for he was later than the usual
dinner hour -- he told her what had taken place
replied
Alice
said Alice
Humphrey, who had only taken the box out of the cart and carried it
within the threshold of the door, now took it into his sisters'
bedroom, and then went out and called Pablo, who came running to him
said Humphrey
He then told Pablo what had taken
place
said Pablo
said Pablo
added Pablo,
laughing.

They then went for the pieces of squared timber, brought them from the
saw-pit to the cottage, and very soon fitted them to the doors and
windows, so as to prevent several men, with using all their strength,
from forcing them open
said Humphrey
It was dark before they had finished, and then they made all fast, and
went to Pablo's room for the arms, which they got ready for service,
and loaded
said
Humphrey
After they had had their supper, Humphrey said the prayers, and told
his sisters to go to bed
replied Edith.

Humphrey kissed his sisters, and they went to their room. He then put a
light in the chimney, that he might not have to get one in case the
robbers came, and then desired Pablo to go and lie down on his bed, as
he intended to do the same. Humphrey remained awake till past three
o'clock in the morning, but no robbers came. Pablo was snoring loud,
and at last Humphrey fell asleep himself, and did not wake till broad
daylight. He got up, and found Alice and Edith were already in the
sitting-room, lighting the fire
replied Pablo, coming out half asleep
replied Edith
They took down the barricades, and Humphrey opened the door cautiously,
and looked out
observed
Humphrey
Pablo took the pistol, and then Humphrey went out of the door and
looked well round in front of the cottage, but he would not leave the
door till he was assured that no one was there. Pablo returned soon
after, saying that he had looked round every where, and into the
cow-house and yard, and there was nobody to be seen. This satisfied
Humphrey, and they returned to the cottage
said Humphrey
said Pablo, who immediately busied himself with some cold meat
which Alice put before him. Pablo had finished his breakfast and
brought Billy to the door, before Humphrey had finished his letter. As
soon as it was written and folded, Pablo set off, as fast as Billy
could go, to the other side of the forest.

Humphrey continued on the look-out during the whole day, with his gun
on his arm, and his two dogs by his side; for he knew the dogs would
give notice of the approach of any one, long before he might see them;
but nothing occurred during the whole day; and when the evening closed
in he barricaded the doors and windows, and remained on the watch with
the dogs, waiting for the coming of the robbers, or for the arrival of
the party which he expected would be sent by the intendant to take the
robbers. Just as it was dark, Pablo returned with a note from Edward,
saying that he would be over, and at the cottage by ten o'clock, with a
large party.

Humphrey had said in his letter, that it would be better that any force
sent by the intendant should not arrive till after dark, as the robbers
might be near and perceive them, and then they might escape; he did not
therefore expect them to come till some time after dark. Humphrey was
reading a book -- Pablo was dozing in the chimney corner -- the two girls
had retired into their room and had lain down on the bed in their
clothes, when the dogs both gave a low growl
said Pablo, starting up.

Again the dogs growled, and Humphrey made a sign to Pablo to hold his
tongue. A short time of anxious silence succeeded, for it was
impossible to ascertain whether the parties were friends or enemies.
The dogs now sprung up and barked furiously at the door, and as soon as
Humphrey had silenced them, a voice was heard outside, begging for
admission to a poor benighted traveler. This was sufficient; it could
not be the party from the intendant's, but the robbers who wished to
induce them to open the door. Pablo put a gun into Humphrey's hand, and
took another for himself; he then removed the light into the chimney,
and on the application from outside being repeated, Humphrey answered
No answer or repetition of the request was made, but, as Humphrey
retreated with Pablo into the fireplace, a gun was fired into the lock
of the door, which was blown off into the room, and, had it not been
for the barricades, the doors must have flown open. The robbers
appeared surprised at such not being the case, and one of them inserted
his arm into the hole made in the door, to ascertain what might be the
further obstacle to open it, when Pablo slipped past Humphrey, and
gaining the door, discharged his gun under the arm which had been
thrust into the hole in the door. The party, whoever it might have
been, gave a loud cry, and fell at the threshold outside
said Humphrey
said Pablo
The dogs now flew to the back of the cottage, evidently pointing out
that the robbers were attempting that side. Humphrey put his gun
through the hole in the door, and discharged it
said Alice, who with Edith had
joined them without Humphrey observing it
Humphrey stood within four feet of the back door, and fired just above
where the dogs held their noses and barked. Pablo discharged his gun as
directed, and then returned to reload the guns. The dogs were now more
quiet, and it appeared as if the robbers had retreated from the back
door. Pablo blew out the light, which had been put more in the center
of the room when Alice and Edith took possession of the fireplace
said Pablo, who
now went and peered through the hole in the front door, to see if the
robbers were coming to it again; but he could see and hear nothing for
some time.

At last the attack was renewed; the dogs flew backward and forward,
sometimes to one door and then to another, as if both were to be
assailed; and at the same time a crash in Alice's bedchamber told them
that the robbers had burst in the small window in that room, which
Humphrey had not paid any attention to, as it was so small that a man
could hardly introduce his body through it. Humphrey immediately called
Holdfast and opened the door of the room, for he thought that a man
forcing his way in would be driven back or held by the dog, and he and
Pablo dared not leave the two doors. Watch, the other dog, followed
Holdfast into the bedroom; and oaths and curses, mingled with the
savage yells of the dogs, told them that a conflict was going on. Both
doors were now battered with heavy pieces of timber at the same time,
and Pablo said
A moment or more had passed, during which Pablo and Humphrey had both
again fired their guns through the door, when, of a sudden, other
sounds were heard -- shots were fired outside, loud cries, and angry
oaths and exclamations
said Humphrey
Shortly afterward Humphrey heard his name called by Edward, and he
replied, and went to the door and undid the barricades
said Humphrey
Alice soon brought one, and then the door was unfastened. Edward
stepped over the body of a man which lay at the threshold, saying
and then caught Edith
and Alice in his arms.

He was followed by Oswald and some other men, leading in the prisoners
said Edward
said Alice
Edward went in with Humphrey, and found a man half in the window and
half out, held by the throat and apparently suffocated by the two dogs.
He took the dogs off; and desiring the men to secure the robber, and
ascertain whether he was alive or not, he returned to the sitting-room,
and then went to examine the body outside the door
cried Oswald
replied Edward
On inquiry they found, that of all the robbers, to the number of ten,
not one had escaped -- eight they had made prisoners, Corbould, and the
man whom the dogs had seized, and who was found to be quite dead, made
up the number. The robbers were all bound and guarded; and then,
leaving them under the charge of Oswald and five of his men, Edward and
Humphrey set off with seven more to Clara's cottage, to ascertain if
there were any more to be found there. They arrived by two o'clock in
the morning, and, on knocking several times, the door was opened and
they seized another man, the only one who was found in it. They then
went back to the cottage with their prisoner, and by the time that they
had arrived it was daylight. As soon as the party sent by the intendant
had been supplied with a breakfast, Edward bade farewell to Humphrey
and his sisters, that he might return and deliver up his prisoners.
Pablo went with him to bring back the cart which carried the two dead
bodies. This capture cleared the forest of the robbers which had so
long infested it, for they never had any more attempts made from that
time.

Before Edward left, Humphrey and he examined the box which Humphrey had
dug up from under the oak, and which had occasioned such danger to the
inmates of the cottage; for one of the men stated to Edward that they
suspected that the box which they had seen Humphrey dig out contained
treasure, and that without they had seen him in possession of it, they
never should have attacked the cottage, although Corbould had often
persuaded them so to do; but as they knew that he was only seeking
revenge -- and they required money to stimulate them -- they had refused,
as they considered that there was nothing to be obtained in the cottage
worth the risk, as they knew that the inmates had firearms, and would
defend themselves. On examination of its contents, they found in the
box a sum of 40 pounds in gold, a bag of silver, and some other
valuables in silver spoons, candlesticks, and ornaments for women.
Edward took a list of the contents, and when he returned he stated to
the intendant all that had occurred, and requested to know what should
be done with the money and other articles which Humphrey had found
said the intendant
When Patience and Clara heard that Edward was going over, they obtained
leave to go with him to see Alice and Edith, and were to be escorted
back by Humphrey. This the intendant consented to, and they had a very
merry party. Humphrey remained two days at the intendant's house, and
then returned to the cottage, where Edward had taken his place during
his absence
The winter set in very severe, and the falls of snow were very heavy
and frequent. It was fortunate that Humphrey had been so provident in
making so large a quantity of hay, or the stock would have been
starved. The flock of goats, in a great part, subsisted themselves on
the bark of trees and moss; at night they had some hay given to them,
and they did very well. It was hardly possible for Edward to come over
to see his brother and sisters, for the snow was so deep as to render
such a long journey too fatiguing for a horse. Twice or thrice after
the snow fell, he contrived to get over; but after that they knew it
was impossible, and they did not expect him. Humphrey and Pablo had
little to do except attending to the stock, and cutting firewood to
keep up their supply, for they now burned it very fast. The snow lay
several feet high round the cottage, being driven against it by the
wind. They had kept a passage clear to the yard, and had kept the yard
as clear of snow as possible: they could do no more. A sharp frost and
clear weather succeeded to the snow-storms, and there appeared no
chance of the snow melting away. The nights were dark and long, and
their oil for their lamp was getting low. Humphrey was anxious to go to
Lymington, as they required many things but it was impossible to go any
where except on foot, and walking was, from the depth of the snow, a
most fatiguing exercise. There was one thing, however, that Humphrey
had not forgotten, which was, that he had told Edward that he would try
and capture some of the forest ponies; and during the whole of the time
since the heavy fall of snow had taken place he had been making his
arrangements. The depth of the snow prevented the animals from
obtaining any grass, and they were almost starved, as they could find
nothing to subsist upon except the twigs and branches of trees which
they could reach. Humphrey went out with Pablo, and found the herd,
which was about five miles from the cottage, and near to Clara's
cottage. He and Pablo brought with them as much hay as they could
carry, and strewed it about, so as to draw the ponies nearer to them,
and then Humphrey looked for a place which would answer his purpose.
About three miles from the cottage, he found what he thought would suit
him; there was a sort of avenue between the two thickets, about a
hundred yards wide; and the wind blowing through this avenue, during
the snow-storm, had drifted the snow at one end of it, and right across
it raised a large mound several feet high. By strewing small bundles of
hay, he drew the herd of ponies into this avenue; and in the avenue he
left them a good quantity to feed upon every night for several nights,
till at last the herd of ponies went there every morning
said Humphrey
said Pablo
Before daylight they went with the dogs and a large bundle of hay,
which they strewed nearer to the mound of drift-snow. They then tied
the dogs up on each side, ordering them to lie down and be quiet. They
then walked through the thicket so as not to be perceived, until they
considered that they were far enough from the drift-snow. About
daylight, the herd came to pick up the hay as usual, and after they had
passed them Humphrey and Pablo followed in the thicket, not wishing to
show themselves till the last moment. While the ponies were busy with
the hay, they suddenly ran out into the avenue and separated, so as to
prevent the ponies from attempting to gallop past them. Shouting as
loud they could, as they ran up to the ponies, and calling to the dogs,
who immediately set up barking on each side, the ponies, alarmed at the
noise and the appearance of Humphrey and Pablo, naturally set off in
the only direction which appeared to them to be clear, and galloped
away over the mound of drift-snow, with their tails streaming, snorting
and plunging in the snow as they hurried along; but as soon as they
arrived at the mound of drift-snow, they plunged first up to their
bellies, and afterward, as they attempted to force their way where the
snow was deeper, many of them stuck fast altogether, and attempted to
clear themselves in vain. Humphrey and Pablo, who had followed them as
fast as they could run, now came up with them and threw the lasso over
the neck of one, and ropes with slip-nooses over two more, which were
floundering in the snow there together. The remainder of the herd,
after great exertions, got clear of the snow by turning round and
galloping back through the avenue. The three ponies captured made a
furious struggle, but by drawing the ropes tight round their necks they
were choked, and soon unable to move. They then tied their fore-legs,
and loosed the ropes round their necks, that they might recover their
breath
said Pablo
Pablo then put the halter on, and tied the end short to the fore-leg of
the pony, so that it could not walk without keeping its head close to
the ground -- if it raised its head, it was obliged to lift up its leg.
Then he put the lasso round its neck, to choke it if it was too unruly,
and having done that, he cast loose the ropes which had tied its
fore-legs together
The pony, which was an iron-gray and very handsome, plunged furiously
and kicked behind, but it could not do so without falling down, which
it did several times before Pablo returned with the dogs. Humphrey held
one part of the lasso on one side, and Pablo on the other, keeping the
pony between them; and with the dogs barking at it behind, they
contrived, with a great deal of exertion and trouble, to get the pony
to the cottage. The poor animal, driven in this way on three legs, and
every now and then choked with the lasso, was covered with foam before
they arrived. Billy was turned out of his stable to make room for the
new-comer, who was fastened securely to the manger and then left
without food, that he might become tame. It was too late then, and they
were too tired themselves to go for the other two ponies; so they were
left lying on the snow all night, and the next morning they found they
were much tamer than the first; and during the day, following the same
plan, they were both brought to the stable and secured alongside of the
other. One was a bay pony with black legs, and the other a brown one.
The bay pony was a mare, and the other two horses. Alice and Edith were
delighted with the new ponies, and Humphrey was not a little pleased
that he had succeeded in capturing them, after what had passed between
Edward and him. After two days' fasting, the poor animals were so tame
that they ate out of Pablo's hand, and submitted to be stroked and
caressed; and before they were a fortnight in the stable, Alice and
Edith could go up to them without danger. They were soon broken in; for
the yard being full of muck, Pablo took them into it and mounted them.
They plunged and kicked at first, and tried all they could to get rid
of him, but they sunk so deep into the muck that they were soon tired
out; and after a month, they were all three tolerably quiet to ride.

The snow was so deep all over the country that there was little
communication with the metropolis. The intendant's letters spoke of
King Charles raising another army in Holland, and that his adherents in
England were preparing to join him as soon at he marched southward
said the intendant
replied Edward
It was soon after this conversation that a messenger arrived from
London with letters, announcing that King Charles had been crowned in
Scotland, with great solemnity and magnificence
said the intendant
replied Edward
Edward went to Patience and Clara, and told them that he was to set off
for London on the following morning, and was about to make his
preparations
inquired Patience
replied Patience
said Clara
Edward had left the room, and having obtained the saddlebags from
Phoebe had gone up to his chamber. The first thing that he laid hold of
was his father's sword; he took it down, and having wiped it carefully,
he kissed it, saying
He had uttered these
words aloud; and again taking the sword, and laying it down on the bed,
turned round, and perceived that Patience had, unknown to him, entered
the room, and was standing close to him. Edward was not conscious that
he had spoken aloud, and therefore merely said
replied
Edward
said Patience, taking it off the bed, and examining
it
Patience made no reply. Clara now joined them, and they commenced the
task of examining the linen; and Edward left the room, as he wished to
speak with Oswald. They did not meet again till dinner time. Edward's
sudden departure had spread a gloom over them all -- even the intendant
was silent and thoughtful. In the evening he gave Edward the letters
which he had written, and a considerable sum of money, telling him
where he was to apply if he required more for his expenses. The
intendant cautioned him on his behavior in many points, and also
relative to his dress and carriage during his stay in the metropolis
So saying, the intendant went away to his own room
thought Edward
Taking up the letters and bag of money, which still remained on the
table, Edward went to his room, and having placed the letters and money
in the saddle-bag, he commended himself to the Divine Protector, and
retired to rest.

Before daylight, the sound of Sampson's heavy traveling-boots below
roused up Edward, and he was soon dressed. Taking his saddle-bags on
his arm, he walked softly down stairs, that he might not disturb any of
the family; but when he was passing the sitting-room, he perceived that
there was a light in it, and, on looking in, that Patience was up and
dressed. Edward looked surprised, and was about to speak, when Patience
said
replied
Patience
replied Edward
Edward first kissed Patience's hand, that was held in his own; but,
perceiving the tears starting in her eyes, he kissed them off, without
any remonstrance on her part, and then left the room. In a few moments
more he was mounted on a fine, powerful black horse, and, followed by
Sampson, on his road to London.

We will pass over the journey, which was accomplished without any event
worthy of remark. Edward had, from the commencement, called Sampson to
his side, that he might answer the questions he had to make upon all
that he saw, and which, the reader must be aware, was quite new to one
whose peregrinations had been confined to the New Forest and the town
adjacent. Sampson was a very powerful man, of a cool and silent
character, by no means deficient in intelligence, and trustworthy
withal. He had long been a follower of the intendant, and had served in
the army. He was very devout, and generally, when not addressed, was
singing hymns in a low voice.

On the evening of the second day, they were close to the metropolis,
and Sampson pointed out to Edward St. Paul's Cathedral and Westminster
Abbey, and other objects worthy of note
inquired Edward
Before dark they had arrived at the hotel, and the horses were in the
stable. Edward had procured an apartment to his satisfaction, and,
feeling fatigued with his two days' traveling, had gone to bed.

The following morning he examined the letters which had been given to
him by the intendant, and inquired of Sampson if he could direct him on
his way. Sampson knew London well; and Edward set out to Spring
Gardens, to deliver a letter, which the intendant informed him was
confidential, to a person of the name of Langton. Edward knocked and
was ushered in, Sampson taking a seat in the hall, while Edward was
shown into a handsomely-furnished library, where he found himself in
the presence of a tall, spare man, dressed after the fashion of the
Roundheads of the time. He presented the letter. Mr. Langton bowed, and
requested Edward to sit down; and, after Edward had taken a chair, he
then seated himself and opened the letter
said Mr. Langton
Edward rose to depart, and thanked Mr. Langton for his kindness
said Langton
Edward then quitted the house, and delivered the other letters of
credence; the only one of importance at the moment was the one of
credit; the others were to various members of the Parliament, desiring
them to know Master Armitage as a confidential friend of the intendant,
and, in case of need, to exert their good offices in his behalf. The
letter of credit was upon a Hamburgh merchant, who asked Edward if he
required money. Edward replied that he did not at present, but that he
had business to do for his employer in the north, and might require
some when there, if it was possible to obtain it so far from London
Edward then returned to the hotel. Before he went to bed, he told
Sampson that he found that he had to leave London on Mr. Heatherstone's
affairs, and might be absent some time; he concluded by observing that
he did not consider it necessary to take him with him, as he could
dispense with his services, and Mr. Heatherstone would be glad to have
him back
replied Sampson
Edward then made Sampson a present, and wished him a pleasant journey.

At the hour appointed on the following day, Edward repaired to Mr.
Langton, who received him very cordially
Mr. Langton held out his hand to Edward, who respectfully took his
leave
Edward was certain that Mr. Langton would not have advised him to leave
London if he had not considered that it was dangerous to remain. He
therefore first called upon the Hamburgh merchant, who, upon his
explanation, gave him a letter of credit to a friend who resided in the
city of York; and then returned to the hotel, packed up his
saddle-bags, paid his reckoning, and, mounting his horse, set off on
the northern road. As it was late in the afternoon before he was clear
of the metropolis, he did not proceed farther than Barnet, where he
pulled up at the inn. As soon as he had seen his horse attended to,
Edward, with his saddle-bags on his arm, went into the room in the inn
where all the travelers congregated. Having procured a bed, and given
his saddle-bags into the charge of the hostess, he sat down by the
fire, which, although it was warm weather, was nevertheless kept alight.

Edward had made no alteration in the dress which he had worn since he
had been received in the house of Mr. Heatherstone. It was plain,
although of good materials. He wore a high-crowned hat, and,
altogether, would, from his attire, have been taken for one of the
Roundhead party. His sword and shoulder-belt were indeed of more gay
appearance than those usually worn by the Roundheads; but this was the
only difference.

When Edward first entered the room, there were three persons in it,
whose appearance was not very prepossessing. They were dressed in what
had once been gay attire, but which now exhibited tarnished lace,
stains of wine, arid dust from traveling. They eyed him as he entered
with his saddle-bags, and one of them said
replied Edward, as he turned away and went into the bar to
speak with the hostess, and give his property into her care
inquired the same person when Edward returned
replied Edward, walking to the window to avoid further
conversation
observed another of the party
replied the first
Edward did not choose to reply; he folded his arms and looked at the
man with contempt.

The hostess, who had overheard the conversation, now called for her
husband, and desired him to go into the room and prevent any further
insults to the young gentleman who had just come in. The host, who knew
the parties, entered the room, and said
The three men rose and swaggered, but obeyed the host's orders, and
left the room
replied Edward
replied Ed ward, opening his doublet, and showing his pistols
As soon as he had supped, Edward asked the hostess for his saddle-bags,
and went up to his bed.

Early the next morning he rose and went to the stable to see his horse
fed. The three men were in the stables, but they did not say any thing
to him. Edward returned to the inn, called for breakfast, and as soon
as he had finished, took out his pistols to renew the priming. While so
occupied, he happened to look up, and perceived one of the men with his
face against the window, watching him
thought Edward
Having replaced his pistols, Edward
paid his reckoning, and went to the stable, desiring the hostler to
saddle his horse and fix on his saddle-bags. As soon as this was done,
he mounted and rode off. Before he was well clear of the town, the
highwaymen cantered past him on three well-bred active horses
thought Edward, who for some time
cantered at a gentle pace, and then, as his horse was very fresh, he
put him to a faster pace, intending to do a long day's work. He had
ridden about fifteen miles, when he came to a heath, and, as he
continued at a fast trot, he perceived the three highwaymen about a
quarter of a mile in advance of him; they were descending a hill which
was between them, and he soon lost sight of them again. Edward now
pulled up his horse to let him recover his wind, and walked him gently
up the hill. He had nearly gained the summit when he heard the report
of firearms, and soon afterward a man on horseback, in full speed,
galloped over the hill toward him. He had a pistol in his hand, and his
head turned back. The reason for this was soon evident, as immediately
after him appeared the three highwaymen in pursuit. One fired his
pistol at the man who fled, and missed him. The man then fired in
return, and with true aim, as one of the highwaymen fell. All this was
so sudden, that Edward had hardly time to draw his pistol and put spurs
to his horse, before the parties were upon him, and were passing him.
Edward leveled at the second highwayman as he passed him, and the man
fell. The third highwayman, perceiving this, turned his horse to the
side of the road, cleared a ditch, and galloped away across the heath.
The man who had been attacked had pulled up his horse when Edward came
to his assistance, and now rode up to him, saying
replied Edward
replied the stranger
As Edward was equally anxious to proceed, he agreed with the stranger,
that it was best to do as he proposed
replied Edward
said the stranger
There was such a gentlemanlike, frank, and courteous air about the
stranger, that Edward immediately assented to his proposal, of their
riding in company for mutual protection. He was a powerful, well-made
man, of apparently about one or two-and-twenty, remarkably handsome in
person, dressed richly, but not gaudily, in the Cavalier fashion, and
wore a hat with a feather. As they proceeded, they entered into
conversation on indifferent matters for some time, neither party
attempting by any question to discover who his companion might be.
Edward had more than once, when the conversation flagged for a minute,
considered what reply he should give in case his companion should ask
him the cause of his journey, and at last had made up his mind what to
say.

A little before noon they pulled up to bait their horses at a small
village; the stranger observing that he avoided St. Alban's, and all
other large towns, as he did not wish to satisfy the curiosity of
people, or to have his motions watched; and therefore, if Edward had no
objection, he knew the country so well, that he could save time by
allowing him to direct their path. Edward was, as may be supposed, very
agreeable to this, and, during their whole journey, they never entered
a town, except they rode through it after dark; and put up at humble
inns on the roadside, where, if not quite so well attended to, at all
events they were free from observation.

It was, however, impossible that this reserve could continue long, as
they became more and more intimate every day. At last the stranger said
replied Edward
replied Chaloner
said
Edward
Edward took his letters from out of his side-pocket, and handed one of
them to his fellow-traveler. The address was
said Edward, smiling
Chaloner burst out with a loud laugh
replied Edward, as he replaced his letter
answered Chaloner
replied Edward. Chaloner then talked about the
chances of the war. He stated that King Charles's army was in a good
state of discipline, and well found in everything; that there were
hundreds in England who would join it, as soon as it had advanced far
enough into England; and that every thing wore a promising appearance
said Chaloner, after a pause
said Edward
replied Chaloner
said Edward
replied Chaloner
continued
Chaloner
replied Edward
replied Chaloner, with an air of distrust
replied Edward
Chaloner started with astonishment
at last said he
continued Chaloner,
extending his hand, which was eagerly grasped by Edward, who then
confided to Chaloner the history of his life. When he had concluded,
Chaloner said
Edward was much delighted at this tribute paid to his father's memory;
and the tears more than once started into his eyes as Chaloner renewed
his praise.

Late in the evening they arrived at Portlake, a grand old mansion
situated in a park crowded with fine old timber. Chaloner was
recognized, as they rode up the avenue, by one of the keepers, who
hastened forward to announce his arrival; and the domestics had opened
the door for them before they arrived at it. In the hall they were met
by the old ladies, who expressed their delight at seeing their nephew,
as they had had great fear that something had happened to him
replied Chaloner
replied the old ladies, who
extended their hands to Edward. They then went into a sitting-room, and
supper was ordered to be sent up immediately
said Chaloner
One of the ladies produced the letters, which Chaloner, as he read
them, handed over to Edward for his perusal. They were from General
Middleton, and some other friends of Chaloner's who were with the army,
giving him information as to what was going on, and what their
prospects were supposed to be
said Chaloner
inquired Edward
replied Edward.

After an hour's more conversation, they were shown into their rooms,
and retired for the night
The next morning, before they had quitted their beds, a messenger
arrived with letters from General Middleton, and from him they found
that the king's army had encamped on the evening before not six miles
from Portlake. As they hastily dressed themselves, Chaloner proposed to
Edward that a little alteration in his dress would be necessary; and
taking him to a wardrobe in which had been put aside some suits of his
own, worn when he was a younger and slighter-made man than he now was,
he requested Edward to make use of them. Edward, who was aware that
Chaloner was right in his proposal, selected two suits of colors which
pleased him most; and dressing in one, and changing his hat for one
more befitting his new attire, was transformed into a handsome
Cavalier. As soon as they had broken their fast they took leave of the
old ladies, and mounting their horses set off for the camp. An hour's
ride brought them to the outposts; and communicating with the officer
on duty, they were conducted by an orderly to the tent of General
Middleton, who received Chaloner with great warmth as an old friend,
and was very courteous to Edward as soon as he heard that he was the
son of Colonel Beverley
said Middleton
General Middleton then walked with them to the house in which the king
had taken up his quarters for the night; and after a few minutes'
waiting in the anteroom, they were admitted into his presence
said General Middleton, after the first
salutations
replied the king
The king held out his hand, and Chaloner bent his knee and kissed it
replied his majesty
Edward knelt down and kissed his majesty's hand, and the king said
replied Edward
said the king
After a few more courteous words from his majesty, they withdrew, but
General Middleton was recalled by the king for a minute or two to
receive his commands. When he rejoined Edward and Chaloner, he said to
Edward
Edward was soon equipped, and now attended upon the king. When they
arrived at Warrington, they found a body of horse drawn up to oppose
their passage onward. These were charged, and fled with a trifling
loss; and as they were known to be commanded by Lambert, one of
Cromwell's best generals, there was great exultation in the king's
army; but the fact was, that Lambert had acted upon Cromwell's orders,
which were to harass and delay the march of the king as much as
possible, but not to risk with his small force any thing like an
engagement. After this skirmish it was considered advisable to send
back the Earl of Derby and many other officers of importance into
Lancashire, that they might collect the king's adherents in that
quarter and in Cheshire. Accordingly the earl, with about two hundred
officers and gentlemen, left the army with that intention. It was then
considered that it would be advisable to march the army direct to
London; but the men were so fatigued with the rapidity of the march up
to the present time, and the weather was so warm, that it was decided
in the negative; and as Worcester was a town well affected to the king,
and the country abounded with provisions, it was resolved that the army
should march there, and wait for English re-enforcements. This was
done; the city opened the gates with every mark of satisfaction, and
supplied the army with all that it required. The first bad news which
reached them was the dispersion and defeat of the whole of the Earl of
Derby's party, by a regiment of militia which had surprised them at
Wigan during the night, when they were all asleep, and had no idea that
any enemy was near to them. Although attacked at such disadvantage,
they defended themselves till a large portion of them was killed, and
the remainder were taken prisoners, and most of them brutally put to
death. The Earl of Derby was made a prisoner, but not put to death with
the others
said Edward
replied the latter
replied Chaloner
replied Edward
replied Chaloner
Several more days passed, during which no defenses were thrown up, and
the confusion and quarreling in the army continued to increase, until
at last news arrived that Cromwell was within half a day's march of
them, and that he had collected all the militia on his route, and was
now in numbers nearly double to those in the king's army. All was
amazement and confusion -- nothing had been done -- no arrangements had
been made -- Chaloner told Edward that all was lost if immediate steps
were not taken.

On the 3d of October, the army of Cromwell appeared in sight. Edward
had been on horseback, attending the king, for the best part of the
night; the disposition of the troops had been made as well as it could;
and it was concluded, as Cromwell's army remained quiet, that no
attempt would be made on that day. About noon the king returned to his
lodging, to take some refreshment after his fatigue. Edward was with
him; but before an hour had passed, the alarm came that the armies were
engaged. The king mounted his horse, which was ready saddled at the
door; but before he could ride out of the city, he was met and nearly
beaten back by the whole body almost of his own cavalry, who came
running on with such force that he could not stop them. His majesty
called to several of the officers by name, but they paid no attention;
and so great was the panic, that both the king and his staff, who
attended him, were nearly overthrown, and trampled under foot.

Cromwell had passed a large portion of his troops over the river
without the knowledge of the opponents, and when the attack was made in
so unexpected a quarter, a panic ensued. Where General Middleton and
the Duke Hamilton commanded, a very brave resistance was made; but
Middleton being wounded, Duke Hamilton having his leg taken off by a
round-shot, and many gentlemen having fallen, the troops, deserted by
the remainder of the army, at last gave way, and the rout was general,
the foot throwing away their muskets before they were discharged.

His majesty rode back into the town, and found a body of horse, who had
been persuaded by Chaloner to make a stand
said his
majesty
His majesty, followed by Edward, Chaloner, and several of his personal
staff, then galloped out to reconnoiter; but to his mortification he
found that the troops had not followed him, but gone out of the town by
the other gate, and that the enemy's cavalry in pursuit were actually
in the town. Under such circumstances, by the advice of Chaloner and
Edward, his majesty withdrew, and, turning his horse's head, he made
all haste to leave Worcester. After several hours' riding, the king
found himself in company of about 4000 of the cavalry who had so
disgracefully fled; but they were still so panic-struck that he could
put no confidence in them, and having advised with those about him, he
resolved to quit them. This he did without mentioning his intention to
any of his staff, not even Chaloner or Edward -- leaving at night with
two of his servants, whom he dismissed as soon as it was daylight,
considering that his chance of escape would be greater if he were quite
alone.

It was not till the next morning that they discovered that the king had
left them, and then they determined to separate, and, as the major
portion were from Scotland, to make what haste they could back to that
country. And now Chaloner and Edward consulted as to their plans
said Edward, laughing
said
Chaloner
said Edward
They did so, and perceived that there was a skirmish between a party of
Cavaliers and some of the Parliamentary cavalry, at about a quarter of
a mile distant
said Edward
replied Chaloner, spurring his horse; and down they went at
full speed, and in a minute were in the melee, coming on the rear of
the Parliamentary troops.

This sudden attack from behind decided the affair. The Parliamentary
troopers, thinking that there were more than two coming upon them, made
off after another minute's combat, leaving five or six of their men on
the ground
said a voice which they
immediately recognized. It was that of Grenville, one of the king's
pages
Grenville then said to the men
The men, about fifteen in number, who had been in company with
Grenville, considered that Chaloner's advice was good, and without
ceremony set off, with their horses' heads to the northward, leaving
Chaloner, Edward, and Grenville together on the field of the affray.
About a dozen men were lying on the ground, either dead or severely
wounded: seven of them were of the king's party, and the other five of
the Parliamentary troops
said Edward
replied Chaloner
said Edward, wiping his sword, which he still held drawn, and
then sheathing it
They tied their horses to a tree, and having given what assistance they
could to the wounded men, they proceeded to strip three of the
Parliamentary troopers; and then laying aside their own habiliments,
they dressed themselves in the uniform of the enemy, and, mounting
their horses, made all haste from the place. Having gained about twelve
miles, they pulled up their horses, and rode at a more leisurely pace.
It was now eight o'clock in the evening, but still not very dark; they
therefore rode on another five miles, till they came to a small
village, where they dismounted at an ale-house, and put their horses
into the stable
said Grenville, giving the hostler a kick, and telling him
to bestir himself, if he did not want his ears cropped.

They entered the ale-house, and soon found out they were held in great
terror. They ordered every thing of the best to be produced, and
threatened to set fire to the house if it was not; they turned the man
and his wife out of their bed, and all three went to sleep in it; and,
in short, they behaved in such an arbitrary manner, that nobody doubted
that they were Cromwell's horse. In the morning they set off again by
Chaloner's advice, paying for nothing that they had ordered, although
they had all of them plenty of money. They now rode fast, inquiring at
the places which they passed through, whether any fugitives had been
seen, and, if they came to a town, inquiring, before they entered,
whether there were any Parliamentary troops. So well did they manage,
that after four days they had gained the skirts of the New Forest, and
concealed themselves in a thicket till night-time, when Edward proposed
that he should conduct his fellow-travelers to the cottage, where he
would leave them till his plans were adjusted.

Edward had already arranged his plans. His great object was to ward off
any suspicion of where he had been, and, of course, any idea that the
intendant had been a party to his acts; and the fortunate change of his
dress enabled him now to do so with success. He had decided to conduct
his two friends to the cottage that night, and the next morning to ride
over in his Parliamentary costume to the intendant's house, and bring
the first news of the success of Cromwell and the defeat at Worcester;
by which stratagem it would appear as if he had been with the
Parliamentary, and not with the Jacobite, army.

As they had traveled along, they found that the news of Cromwell's
success had not yet arrived: in those times there was not the rapidity
of communication that we now have, and Edward thought it very probable
that he would be the first to communicate the intelligence to the
intendant and those who resided near him.

As soon as it was dusk the three travelers left their retreat, and,
guided by Edward, soon arrived at the cottage. Their appearance at
first created no little consternation, for Humphrey and Pablo happened
to be in the yard, when they heard the clattering of the swords and
accouterments, and through the gloom observed, as they advanced, that
the party were troopers. At first, Humphrey was for running on and
barring the door; but, on a second reflection, he felt that he could
not do a more imprudent thing if there was danger; and he therefore
contented himself with hastily imparting the intelligence to his
sisters, and then remaining at the threshold to meet the coming of the
parties. The voice of Edward calling him by name dissipated all alarm,
and in another minute he was in the arms of his brother and sisters
said Edward,
after the first greeting was over
Accompanied by Humphrey and Pablo, they all went to the stables, and
turned out the ponies to make room for the horses; and as soon as they
were all fed and littered down, they returned to the cottage, and
Chaloner and Grenville were introduced. Supper was soon on the table,
and they were too hungry to talk while they were eating, so that but
little information was gleaned from them that night. However, Humphrey
ascertained that all was lost, and that they had escaped from the field
previous to Alice and Edith leaving the room to prepare beds for the
new-comers. When the beds were ready, Chaloner and Grenville retired,
and then Edward remained half an hour with Humphrey, to communicate to
him what had passed. Of course he could not enter into detail; but told
him that he would get information from their new guests after he had
left, which he must do early in the morning
The brothers then parted for the night.

The next morning, long before their guests were awake, Edward had been
called by Humphrey, and found Pablo at the door with his horse. Edward,
who had put on his Parliamentary accouterments, bade a hasty farewell
to them, and set off across the forest to the house of the intendant,
where he arrived before they had left their bedrooms. The first person
he encountered was, very fortunately, Oswald, who was at his cottage
door. Edward beckoned to him, being then about one hundred yards off;
but Oswald did not recognize him at first, and advanced toward him in a
very leisurely manner, to ascertain what the trooper might wish to
inquire. But Edward called him Oswald, and that was sufficient. In a
few words Edward told him how all was lost, and how he had escaped by
changing clothes with one of the enemy
Edward put spurs to his horse, and arrived at the intendant's at full
speed, making no small clattering in the yard below as he went in, much
to the surprise of Sampson, who came out to ascertain what was the
cause, and who was not a little surprised at perceiving Edward, who
threw himself off the horse, and desiring Sampson to take it to the
stable, entered the kitchen, and disturbed Phoebe, who was preparing
breakfast. Without speaking to her, Edward passed on to the intendant's
room, and knocked
said the intendant
was the reply; and the door was opened. The
intendant started back at the sight of Edward in the trooper's costume
replied Edward, taking off his iron skull-cap,
and allowing his hair to fall down on his shoulders.

He then, in a few words, stated what had happened, and by what means he
had escaped, and the reason why he had kept on the trooper's
accouterments, and made his appearance in them
replied the intendant
Edward left the room, and went down stairs. It hardly need be said how
joyfully he was received by Patience and Clara. The former, however,
expressed her joy in tears -- the latter, in wild mirth.

We will pass over the explanations and the narrative of what had
occurred, which was given by Edward to Mr. Heatherstone in his own
room. The intendant said, as he concluded
replied Edward
replied the intendant
It was only to Oswald that Edward made known what had occurred; he knew
that he was to be trusted. The next day, Edward resumed his forester's
dress, while another one was preparing for him, and went over to the
cottage, where, with the consent of the intendant, he proposed
remaining for a few days. Of course, Edward had not failed to acquaint
the intendant with his proposed plans relative to Chaloner and
Grenville, and received his consent; at the same time advising that
they should gain the other side of the Channel as soon as they possibly
could. Edward found them all very anxious for his arrival. Humphrey and
Pablo had been to the cottage, which they had found undisturbed since
the capture of the robbers, and made every thing ready for the
reception of the two Cavaliers, as, on their first journey, they took
with them a cart-load of what they knew would be necessary. Chaloner
and Grenville appeared to be quite at home already, and not very
willing to shift their quarters. They, of course, still retained their
troopers' clothes, as they had no other to wear until they could be
procured from Lymington; but, as we have before mentioned, they were in
no want of money. They had been amusing the girls and Humphrey with a
description of what had occurred during the campaign, and Edward found
that he had but little to tell them, as Chaloner had commenced his
narrative with an account of his first meeting with Edward when he had
been attacked by the highwaymen. As soon as he could get away, Edward
went out with Humphrey to have some conversation with him
replied Humphrey
said Ed ward
Humphrey laughed, and then informed Edward of the manner in which they
had succeeded in capturing them
replied
Humphrey
replied Edward
observed Humphrey
replied Edward
Edward then narrated what had passed between the intendant and him
since his return; and how well satisfied the intendant had been with
his ruse in returning to him in the dress of a trooper
replied Edward
replied Edward
replied
Edward
said Chaloner, when Edward had
made the communication
observed Chaloner
replied Edward
continued
Edward
observed Chaloner
replied Chaloner
replied Edward
said Humphrey to the former, who came
running, out of breath
said Pablo
said Edward
Chaloner and Edward went in, and Edward put on his dress of secretary.
Shortly afterward, a party of Roundhead cavalry were seen galloping
toward the cottage. They soon arrived there, and pulled up their
horses. An officer who headed them addressed Humphrey in a haughty
tone, and asked him who he was
replied Humphrey,
respectfully
At this moment, Edward came out and saluted the officer
said Humphrey, falling
back.

Edward again saluted the officer, and said
said Edward to Humphrey
replied the officer
said Humphrey, submissively
replied the officer, laughing
continued
the officer, saluting Edward as he passed on; and in a minute or two
they were far away
observed Edward
Edward and Humphrey then went in and joined the party inside the
cottage, who were in a state of no little suspense during the colloquy
outside
said Edward, as he came in
said Chaloner
replied Edward
For three or four days the Parliamentary forces continued to scour the
forest, and another visit or two was paid to the cottage, but without
suspicion being created, in consequence of the presence of Edward and
his explanations. The parties were invariably sent in another
direction. Edward wrote to the intendant, informing him what had
occurred, and requesting permission to remain a few days longer at the
cottage; and Pablo, who took the letter, returned with one from the
intendant, acquainting him that the king had not yet been taken; and
requesting the utmost vigilance on his part to insure his capture, with
directions to search various places, in company with the troopers who
had been stationed at the cottage; or, if he did not like to leave the
cottage, to shew the letter to any officer commanding parties in
search, that they might act upon the suggestions contained in it. This
letter Edward had an opportunity of showing to one or two officers,
commanding parties, who approached the cottage, and to whom Edward went
out to communicate with, thereby preventing their stopping there.

At last, in about a fortnight, there was not a party in the forest; all
of them having gone down to the seaside, to look out for the fugitives,
several of whom were taken.

Humphrey took the cart to Lymington, to procure clothes for Chaloner
and Grenville, and it was decided that they should assume those of
verderers of the forest, which would enable them to carry a gun. As
soon as Humphrey had obtained what was requisite, Chaloner and
Grenville were conducted to Clara's cottage, and took possession, of
course never showing themselves outside the wood which surrounded it.
Humphrey lent them Holdfast as a watch, and they took leave of Alice
and Edith with much regret. Humphrey and Edward accompanied them to
their new abode. It was arranged that the horses should remain under
the care of Humphrey, as they had no stable at Clara's cottage.

On parting, Chaloner gave Edward the letter for his aunts; and then
Edward once more bent his steps toward the intendant's house, and found
himself in the company of Patience and Clara.

Edward narrated to the intendant all that had occurred, and the
intendant approved of what he had done, strongly advising that Chaloner
and Grenville should not attempt to go to the Continent till all
pursuit was over
Edward then produced the letter he had received from Chaloner,
requesting that the intendant would have the kindness to forward it
replied the intendant
The conference was then broken up, and Edward went to see Oswald
For several days Edward remained at home, anxiously awaiting every news
which arrived; expecting every time that the capture of the king would
be announced, and, with great joy, finding that hitherto all efforts
had been unsuccessful. But there was a question which now arose in
Edward's mind, and which was the cause of deep reflection. Since the
proposal of sending his sisters away had been started, he felt the
great inconvenience of his still representing himself to the intendant
as the grandson of Armitage. His sisters, if sent to the ladies at
Portlake, must be sent without the knowledge of the intendant; and if
so, the discovery of their absence would soon take place, as Patience
Heatherstone would be constantly going over to the cottage; and he now
asked himself the question, whether, after all the kindness and
confidence which the intendant had shown him, he was right in any
longer concealing from him his birth and parentage. He felt that he was
doing the intendant an injustice, in not showing to him that confidence
which ho deserved.

That he was justified in so doing at first, he felt; but since the
joining the king's army, and the events which had followed, he
considered that he was treating the intendant ill, and he now resolved
to take the first opportunity of making the confession. But to do it
formally, and without some opportunity which might offer, he felt
awkward. At last he thought that he would at once make the confession
to Patience, under the promise of secrecy. That he might do at once;
and, after he had done so, the intendant could not tax him with want of
confidence altogether. He had now analyzed his feelings toward
Patience; and he felt how dear she had become to him. During the time
he was with the army, she had seldom been out of his thoughts; and
although he was often in the society of well bred women, he saw not one
that, in his opinion, could compare with Patience Heatherstone; but
still, what chance had he of supporting a wife? at present, at the age
of nineteen, it was preposterous. Thoughts like these ran in his mind,
chasing each other, and followed by others as vague and unsatisfactory;
and, in the end, Edward came to the conclusion, that he was without a
penny, and that being known as the heir of Beverley would be to his
disadvantage; that he was in love with Patience Heatherstone, and had
no chance at present of obtaining her; and that he done well up to the
present time in concealing who he was from the intendant, who could
safely attest that he knew not that he was protecting the son of so
noted a Cavalier; and that he would confess to Patience who he was, and
give as a reason for not telling her father, that he did not wish to
commit him by letting him know who it was that was under his
protection. How far the reader may be satisfied with the arguments
which Edward was satisfied with, we can not pretend to say; but Edward
was young, and hardly knew how to extricate himself from the cloak
which necessity had first compelled him to put on. Edward was already
satisfied that he was not quite looked upon with indifference by
Patience Heatherstone; and he was not yet certain whether it was not a
grateful feeling that she had toward him more than any other; that she
believed him to be beneath her in birth, he felt convinced, and
therefore she could have no idea that he was Edward Beverley. It was
not till several days after he had made up his mind that he had an
opportunity of being with her alone, as Clara Ratcliffe was their
constant companion. However, one evening Clara went out, and staid out
so long, carelessly wrapped up, that she caught cold; and the following
evening she remained at home, leaving Edward and Patience to take their
usual walk unaccompanied by her. They had walked for some minutes in
silence, when Patience observed
replied Patience
rejoined Edward
replied Patience
replied Edward
Edward finished speaking, and Patience made no reply; they walked on
for several moments without exchanging another syllable. At last
Patience said
replied Edward
replied Patience
said Patience
Mr. Heatherstone now joined them, and said to Edward
They walked to the house, and the intendant, as soon as he had gained
his own room, said to Edward
Edward took up the letter in which the Parliament informed Mr.
Heatherstone that his application to the property of Arnwood had been
acceded to, and signed by the commissioners; and that he might take
immediate possession. Edward turned pale as he laid the document down
on the table
Edward made no reply
said the intendant, with surprise
replied Edward
replied the intendant
replied the intendant,
solemnly raising his eyes upward as he spoke
replied Edward
Edward's heart beat quick. A moment's thought told him his situation.
He had been prevented, by the interruption of Mr. Heatherstone, from
making his confession to Patience; and now he could not make it to any
body without a rupture with the intendant, or a compromise, by asking
what he so earnestly desired -- the hand of Patience. Mr. Heatherstone
observing to Edward that he did not look well, said supper was ready,
and that they had better go into the next room. Edward mechanically
followed. At supper he was tormented by the incessant inquiries of
Clara, as to what was the matter with him. He did not venture to look
at Patience, and made a hasty retreat to bed, complaining, as he might
well do, of a severe headache.

Edward threw himself on his bed, but to sleep was impossible. He
thought of the events of the day over and over again. Had he any reason
to believe that Patience returned his affection? No; her reply was too
calm, too composed to make him suppose that; and now that she would be
an heiress, there would be no want of pretenders to her hand; and he
would lose her and his property at the same time. It was true that the
intendant had declared that he would renounce the property if the true
heir appeared, but that was easy to say upon the conviction that no
heir would appear; and even if he did renounce it, the Parliament would
receive it again rather than it should fall into the hands of a
Beverley
thought Edward
Edward rose at daylight, and, dressing himself, went down and saddled
his horse. Desiring Sampson to tell the intendant that he had gone over
to the cottage and would return by the evening, he rode across the
forest, and arrived just as they were sitting down to breakfast. His
attempts to be cheerful before his sisters did not succeed, and they
were all grieved to see him look so pale and haggard. As soon as
breakfast was over, Edward made a sign, and he and Humphrey went out
said Humphrey
replied Edward, who then gave him
the detail of all that had passed from the time he had walked out with
Patience Heatherstone till he went to bed
replied
Humphrey
said Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Humphrey
replied Edward
After some more conversation, Edward mounted his horse and returned to
the intendant's. He did not arrive till late, for supper was on the
table. The intendant gave him a letter for Mr. Chaloner, which was
inclosed in one from Mr. Langton; and further informed Edward that news
had arrived of the king having made his escape to France
exclaimed Edward
The intendant having given his consent, Edward retired without having
exchanged a word with Patience or Clara beyond the usual civilities of
the table.

The following morning, Edward, who had not slept an hour during the
night, set off for Clara's cottage, and found Chaloner and Grenville
still in bed. At the sound of his voice the door was opened, and he
gave Chaloner the letter; the latter read it and then handed it to
Edward. The Misses Conynghame were delighted at the idea of receiving
the two daughters of Colonel Beverley, and would treat them as their
own; they requested that they might be sent to London immediately,
where the coach would meet them to convey them down to Lancashire. They
begged to be kindly remembered to Captain Beverley, and to assure him
that his sisters should be well cared for
said Edward
Edward bade them a hearty farewell, and then rode to the cottage.

Although Alice and Edith had been somewhat prepared for leaving the
cottage, yet the time was so very uncertain, that the blow fell heavy
upon them. They were to leave their brothers whom they loved so dearly,
to go to strangers; and when they understood that they were to leave in
two days, and that they should not see Edward again, their grief was
very great; but Edward reasoned with Alice and consoled her, although
with Edith it was a more difficult task. She not only lamented her
brothers, but her cow, her pony, and her kids; all the dumb animals
were friends and favorites of Edith; and even the idea of parting with
Pablo, was the cause of a fresh burst of tears. Having made every
arrangement with Humphrey, Edward once more took his leave, promising
to come over and assist Pablo as soon as he could.

The next day Humphrey was busied in his preparations. They supplied the
provisions to Clara's cottage; and when Pablo took them over in the
cart, Humphrey rode to Lymington and provided a conveyance to London
for the following day. We may as well observe, that they set off at the
hour appointed, and arrived safely at London in three days. There, at
an address given in a letter, they found the coach waiting; and having
given his sisters into the charge of an elderly waiting-woman, who had
come up in the coach to take charge of them, they quitted him with many
tears, and Humphrey hastened back to the New Forest.

On his return, he found to his surprise that Edward had not called at
the cottage as he had promised; and with a mind foreboding evil, he
mounted a horse and set off across the forest to ascertain the cause.
As he was close to the intendant's house he was met by Oswald, who
informed him that Edward had been seized with a violent fever, and was
in a very dangerous state, having been delirious for three or four days.

Humphrey hastened to dismount, and knocked at the door of the house; it
was opened by Sampson, and Humphrey requested to be shown up to his
brother's room. He found Edward in the state described by Oswald, and
wholly unconscious of his presence; the maid, Phoebe, was by his
bedside
said Humphrey, rather abruptly
Phoebe retired, and Humphrey was alone with his brother
exclaimed
Humphrey, as the tears rolled down his cheeks
Edward now began to talk incoherently, and attempted to rise from the
bed, but his efforts were unavailing -- he was too weak; but he raved of
Patience Heatherstone, and he called himself Edward Beverley more than
once, and he talked of his father and of Arnwood
thought Humphrey
Humphrey had been sitting an hour with his brother, when the surgeon
came to see his patient. He felt his pulse, and asked Humphrey if he
was nursing him
replied Humphrey
The surgeon withdrew, saying that he would return again late in the
evening.

Humphrey remained for another two hours at the bedside, and then
feeling that there was a sign of perspiration, he obeyed the
injunctions of the surgeon, and held on the clothes against all
Edward's endeavors to throw them off. For a short time the perspiration
was profuse, and the restlessness of Edward subsided into a deep
slumber
repeated a voice behind him.

Humphrey turned round and perceived Patience and Clara behind him, who
had come in without his observing it
replied Humphrey, looking reproachfully at Patience
This was a harsh and rude speech of Humphrey; but he considered that
Patience Heatherstone had been the cause of his brother's dangerous
state, and that she had not behaved well to him.

Patience made no reply, but falling down on her knees by the bedside,
prayed silently; and Humphrey's heart smote him for what he had said to
her
thought Humphrey, as Patience and Clara
quitted the room without the least noise.

Shortly afterward the intendant came up into the room and offered his
hand to Humphrey, who pretended not to see it, and did not take it
thought Humphrey
The intendant put his hand within the clothes, and feeling the high
perspiration that Edward was in, said
said the intendant
replied
Humphrey
replied the intendant
This reply of the intendant's reminded Humphrey that he had somewhat
committed himself, as, being supposed to be the daughters of a
forester, it was not to be thought that they had gone up to be
educated; and he therefore replied
The intendant appeared to be much disturbed and surprised, but he said
nothing, and soon afterward quitted the room. He almost immediately
returned with the surgeon, who, as soon as he felt Edward's pulse,
declared that the crisis was over, and that when he awoke he would be
quite sensible. Having given directions as to the drink of his patient,
and some medicine which he was to take, the surgeon then left, stating
that he should not call until the next evening, unless he was sent for,
as he considered all danger over.

Edward continued in a quiet slumber for the major portion of the night.
It was just break of day when he opened his eyes. Humphrey offered him
some drink, which Edward took greedily; and seeing Humphrey, said
and
with these words his head fell on the pillow, and he was again asleep.

When it was broad daylight, Oswald came into the room
Humphrey left the room, and was glad, after a night of close
confinement in a sick-room, to feel the cool morning air fanning his
cheeks. He had not been long out of the house before he perceived Clara
coming toward him
said Clara
continued Clara
replied Humphrey
Clara was silent for a time, and then said
replied Humphrey -- who, feeling no little difficulty in
replying to all these questions, resolved to cut the matter short, by
appearing to be angry
added Humphrey, with a sneer
Clara burst into tears
sobbed she
and Clara ran
away into the house
Our readers may think that Humphrey was very unkind, but it was to
avoid being questioned by Clara, who was evidently sent for the
purpose, that he was so harsh. At the same time it must be admitted,
that Mr. Heatherstone having obtained possession of Arnwood, rankled,
no doubt, in the minds of both the brothers, and every act now, on the
part of him or his family, was viewed in a false medium. But our
feelings are not always at our control, and Edward was naturally
impetuous, and Humphrey so much attached, and so much alarmed at his
brother's danger, that he was even more excited. The blow fell doubly
heavy, as it appeared that at the very same time Patience had rejected
his brother, and taken possession of their property, which had been
held by the family for centuries. What made the case more annoying was,
that explanation, if there was any to offer on either side, was, under
present circumstances, almost impossible.

Soon after Clara left him, Humphrey returned to his brother's room. He
found him awake and talking to Oswald. Ardently pressing his brother's
hand, Edward said
When the surgeon called, he pronounced Edward out of danger, and that
his attendance would be no longer necessary. Edward felt the truth of
this. All that he required was strength; and that he trusted in a few
days to obtain.

Oswald was sent over to the cottage, to ascertain how Pablo was going
on by himself. He found that every thing was correct, and that Pablo,
although he felt proud of his responsibility, was very anxious for
Humphrey's return, as he found himself very lonely. During Oswald's
absence on this day, Humphrey never quitted the room; and although the
intendant came up several times, he never could find an opportunity of
speaking to Edward, which he evidently wished to do.

To the inquiries made as to how he was, Edward always complained of
great weakness, for a reason which will soon be understood. Several
days elapsed, and Edward had often been out of bed during the night,
when not likely to be intruded upon, and he now felt himself strong
enough to be removed; and his object was to leave the intendant's house
without his knowledge, so as to avoid an explanation.

One evening Pablo came over with the horses after it was dark. Oswald
put them into the stable; and the morning proving fine and clear, a
little before break of day, Edward came softly down stairs with
Humphrey, and, mounting the horses, set off for the cottage, without
any one in the intendant's house being aware of their departure.

It must not be supposed, however, that Edward took this step without
some degree of consideration as to the feelings of the intendant. On
the contrary, he left a letter with Oswald, to be delivered after his
departure, in which he thanked the intendant sincerely for all the
kindness and compassion he had shown toward him; assured him of his
gratitude and kind feelings toward him and his daughter, but said that
circumstances had occurred, of which no explanation could be given
without great pain to all parties, which rendered it advisable that he
should take such an apparently unkind step as to leave without bidding
them farewell in person; that he was about to embark immediately for
the Continent, to seek his fortune in the wars; and that he wished all
prosperity to the family, which would ever have his kindest wishes and
remembrances
said Edward, after they had ridden about two miles across
the forest, and the sun had risen in an unclouded sky
By this time all search for the fugitives from Worcester had long been
over, and there was no difficulty in obtaining the means of
embarkation. Early the next morning every thing was ready, and Edward,
Humphrey, Chaloner, Grenville, and Pablo set off for Southampton, one
of the horses carrying the little baggage which they had with them.
Edward, as we have before mentioned, with the money he had saved, and
the store at the cottage, which had been greatly increased, was well
supplied with cash; and that evening they embarked, with their horses,
in a small sailing vessel, and, with a favorable, light wind, arrived
at a small port of France on the following day. Humphrey and Pablo
returned to the cottage, we need hardly now say, very much out of
spirits at the separation
said Pablo, as they rode along
said Pablo
said Pablo
continued Pablo, laughing
We must now return to the intendant's house. Oswald delivered the
letter to the intendant, who read it with much astonishment
said Mr. Heatherstone
said Mr. Heatherstone
replied Oswald
rejoined the intendant, in an angry
tone
replied Oswald, who quitted the room
exclaimed the
intendant, when he was alone. He then read the letter over more
carefully than he had done at first
Mr. Heatherstone opened the door, and called to his daughter
said Mr. Heatherstone
Patience, who was much agitated, gladly took the seat and perused
Edward's letter. When she had done so, she let it drop in her lap and
covered all her face, the tears trickling through her fingers. After a
time, the intendant said
Patience made no reply, but sobbed aloud. She might not have shown so
much emotion, but it must be remembered that for the last three weeks
since Edward had spoken to her, and during his subsequent illness, she
had been very unhappy. The reserve of Humphrey, the expressions he had
made use of, his repulse of Clara, and her not having seen anything of
Edward during his illness, added to his sudden and unexpected departure
without a word to her, had broken her spirits, and she sank beneath the
load of sorrow.

The intendant left her to recover herself before he again addressed
her. When she had ceased sobbing, her father spoke to her in a very
kind voice, begging her that she would not conceal any thing from him,
as it was most important to him that the real facts should be known
said Patience
replied Patience, sobbing again
The intendant remained silent for some time, and then said
Patience removed her handkerchief from her face, and looked at her
father with astonishment
replied Patience
The intendant kissed his daughter, and she left the room.

Poor Patience! she was glad to be left to herself, and think over this
strange communication. For many days she had felt how fond she had been
of Edward, much more so than she had believed herself to be
she thought
By degrees she recovered her serenity, and
employed herself in her quiet domestic duties.

Mr. Heatherstone rode over to the cottage the next day, where he found
Humphrey busily employed as usual, and, what was very unusual,
extremely grave. It was not a pleasant task for Mr. Heatherstone to
have to explain his conduct to so very young a man as Humphrey, but he
felt that he could not be comfortable until the evil impression against
him was removed, and he knew that Humphrey had a great deal of sterling
good sense. His reception was cool; but when the explanation was made,
Humphrey was more than satisfied, as it showed that the intendant had
been their best friend, and that it was from a delicacy on the part of
Patience, rather than from any other cause, that the misunderstanding
had occurred. Humphrey inquired if he had permission to communicate the
substance of their conversation to his brother, and Mr. Heatherstone
stated that such was his wish and intention when he confided it to
Humphrey. It is hardly necessary to say that Humphrey took the earliest
opportunity of writing to Edward at the direction which Chaloner had
left with him
But we must follow Edward for a time. On his arrival at Paris, he was
kindly received by King Charles, who promised to assist his views in
joining the army
inquired Edward
As soon as he was furnished with the necessary credentials from the
king, Edward presented himself at the levee of the Prince of Conde
said the prince
The Prince of Conde then passed on to speak to other officers and
gentlemen who were waiting to pay their respects. Edward went to
Chaloner and Grenville, who were delighted with the intelligence which
he brought them. The next day they were at the prince's levee, and
introduced by Edward
said the prince
A month after this interview, Conde, who had been joined by a great
number of nobles, and had been re-enforced by troops from Spain, set up
the standard of revolt. Edward and his friends joined them, with about
three hundred English and Scotchmen, which they had enlisted, and very
soon afterward Conde obtained the victory at Blenan, and in April,
1652, advanced to Paris. Turenne, who had taken the command of the
French army, followed him, and a severe action was fought in the
streets of the suburb of St. Antoine, in which neither party had the
advantage. But eventually Conde was beaten back by the superior force
of Turenne; and, not receiving the assistance he expected from the
Spaniards, he fell back to the frontiers of Champagne.

Previous to his departure from Paris, Edward had received Humphrey's
letter, explaining away the intendant's conduct; and the contents
removed a heavy load from Edward's mind; but he now thought of nothing
but war, and although he cherished the idea of Patience Heatherstone,
he was resolved to follow the fortunes of the prince as long as he
could. He wrote a letter to the intendant, thanking him for his kind
feelings and intentions toward him, and he trusted that he might one
day have the pleasure of seeing him again. He did not however think it
advisable to mention the name of his daughter, except in inquiring
after her health, and sending his respects
thought Edward
The Prince of Conde now had the command of the Spanish forces in the
Netherlands; and Edward, with his friends, followed his fortunes, and
gained his good-will: they were rapidly promoted.

Time flew on, and in the year 1654 the court of France concluded an
alliance with Cromwell, and expelled King Charles from the French
frontiers. The war was still carried on in the Netherlands. Turenne
bore down Conde, who had gained every campaign; and the court of Spain,
wearied with reverses, made overtures of peace, which was gladly
accepted by the French.

During these wars, Cromwell had been named Protector, and had shortly
afterward died.

Edward, who but rarely heard from Humphrey, was now anxious to quit the
army and go to the king, who was in Spain; but to leave his colors,
while things were adverse, was impossible.

After the peace and the pardon of Conde by the French king, the armies
were disbanded, and the three adventurers were free. They took their
leave of the prince, who thanked them for their long and meritorious
services; and they then hastened to King Charles, who had left Spain
and come to the Low Countries. At the time of their joining the king,
Richard, the son of Cromwell, who had been nominated Protector, had
resigned, and every thing was ready for the Restoration.

On the 15th of May, 1660, the news arrived that Charles had been
proclaimed king on the 8th, and a large body of gentlemen went to
invite him over. The king sailed from Scheveling, was met at Dover by
General Monk, and conducted to London, which he entered amid the
acclamations of the people, on the 29th of the same month.

We may leave the reader to suppose that Edward, Chaloner, and Grenville
were among the most favored of those in his train. As the procession
moved slowly along the Strand, through a countless multitude, the
windows of all the houses were filled with well-dressed ladies, who
waved their white kerchiefs to the king and his attendant suit.
Chaloner, Edward, and Grenville, who rode side by side as gentlemen in
waiting, were certainly the most distinguished among the king's retinue
said Chaloner
replied Edward
replied Grenville
replied Edward, as they now approached within a few
yards of the window; for while they had been speaking the procession
had stopped
thought Edward
As they passed, Edward caught the eye of Edith, and smiled
said Edith, so loud, as to be heard by the
king, and all near him.

Alice and Edith rose and waved their handkerchiefs, but they were soon
obliged to cease, and put them to their eyes
said the king
The king rose in his stirrups, and made a low obeisance to the window
where they were standing
said the king, looking
at him over his shoulder.

As soon as the ceremonies were over, and they could escape from their
personal attentions, Edward and his two friends went to the house in
which resided the Ladies Conynghame and his sisters.

We pass over the joy of this meeting after so many years' absence, and
the pleasure which it gave to Edward to find his sisters grown such
accomplished and elegant young women. That his two friends, who were,
as the reader will recollect, old acquaintances of Alice and Edith,
were warmly received, we hardly need say
cried Edward
replied Edward
said Alice, who had come up
and overheard the latter portion of the conversation
replied Edward
said Alice, smiling
replied Alice
replied Edward
replied Edward
We may as well here inform the reader that the advice was immediately
acted upon, and that Chaloner and Grenville recovered all their estates
at about five years' purchase.

Edward remained at court several days. He had written to Humphrey, and
had dispatched a messenger with the letter; but the messenger had not
yet returned. The court was now one continual scene of fetes and
gayety. On the following day a drawing-room was to be held, and
Edward's sisters were to be presented. Edward was standing, with many
others of the suit, behind the chair of the king, amusing himself with
the presentations as they took place, and waiting for the arrival of
his sisters -- Chaloner and Grenville were not with him, they had
obtained leave to go into the country, for the object we have before
referred to -- when his eyes caught, advancing toward the king, Mr.
Heatherstone, who led his daughter, Patience. That they had not
perceived him was evident; indeed her eyes were not raised once, from
the natural timidity felt by a young woman in the presence of royalty.
Edward half concealed himself behind one of his companions that he
might gaze upon her without reserve. She was indeed a lovely young
person, but little altered, except having grown taller and more rounded
and perfect in her figure; and her court-dress displayed proportions
which her humble costume at the New Forest had concealed, or which time
had not matured. There was the same pensive, sweet expression in her
face, which had altered little; but the beautiful rounded arms, the
symmetrical fall of the shoulders, and the proportion of the whole
figure was a surprise to him; and Edward, in his own mind, agreed that
she might well be the reigning toast of the day.

Mr. Heatherstone advanced and made his obeisance, and then his daughter
was led forward, and introduced by a lady unknown to Edward. After he
had saluted her, the king said, loud enough for Edward to hear
Patience made no reply, but passed on; and, soon afterward, Edward lost
sight of her in the crowd.

If there ever had been any check to Edward's feelings toward
Patience -- and time and absence have their effect upon the most ardent
of lovers -- the sight of her so resplendent in beauty acted upon him
like magic; and he was uneasy till the ceremony was over and he was
enabled to go to his sisters.

When he entered the room, he found himself in the arms of Humphrey, who
had arrived with the messenger. After the greetings were over, Edward
said
said Humphrey
replied Edward
replied Edward, mournfully
replied Edith
replied Humphrey
replied Edith
retorted Edith. But Edward made a sign to Humphrey, and they beat a
retreat
replied Edward
Edward was most kindly received by Mr. Heatherstone. Edward, on Mr.
Heatherstone repeating to him his intentions relative to Arnwood,
expressed his sense of that gentleman's conduct, simply adding
Patience colored up and trembled when Edward first saw her. Edward did
not refer to the past for some time after they had renewed their
acquaintance. He wooed her again, and won her. Then all was explained.

About a year after the Restoration, there was a fete at Hampton Court,
given in honor of three marriages taking place -- Edward Beverley to
Patience Heatherstone, Chaloner to Alice, and Grenville to Edith; and,
as his majesty himself said, as he gave away the brides
But our young readers will not be content if they do not hear some
particulars about the other personages who have appeared in our little
history. Humphrey must take the first place. His love of farming
continued. Edward gave him a large farm, rent free; and in a few years
Humphrey saved up sufficient to purchase a property for himself. He
then married Clara Ratcliffe, who has not appeared lately on the scene,
owing to her having been, about two years before the Restoration,
claimed by an elderly relation, who lived in the country, and whose
infirm state of health did not permit him to quit the house. He left
his property to Clara, about a year after her marriage to Humphrey. The
cottage in the New Forest was held by, and eventually made over to,
Pablo, who became a very steady character, and in the course of time
married a young girl from Arnwood, and had a houseful of young gipsies.
Oswald, so soon as Edward came down to Arnwood, gave up his place in
the New Forest, and lived entirely with Edward as his steward; and
Phoebe also went to Arnwood, and lived to a good old age, in the
capacity of housekeeper, her temper becoming rather worse than better
as she advanced in years.

This is all that we have been able to collect relative to the several
parties; and so now we must say farewell.

THE END
</text>
