<text>
It was the intention of the writer of the following pages to have bid a
last farewell to Leila, but some of her young readers have said
and she feels too grateful for the kindness they have shown her, not to
make the attempt to meet their wishes. Circumstances have so long
prevented her fulfilling this intention, that it may be necessary to
remind them that they took leave of Leila when she had just set off for
Woodlands, (near Richmond,) a property Mr. Howard had purchased near the
residence of her uncle, Mr. Stanley; that Leila was in all the joy of
her cousin, Selina Stanley, having recovered her speech; that Selina's
sister, Matilda, was continuing to make many good resolutions, and too
often to break them again; and that their brother, little Alfred, was
little Alfred still, and not over wise.




                            LEILA AT HOME
The wooded banks of Richmond were in all the soft green of early spring,
when they were first seen by Leila. A few months had passed; the trees
were now half stripped of their leaves, and the autumn tints were fast
fading into sombre gray as she a second time caught sight of its wooded
heights; but how different were now her feelings, how much more
beautiful did the whole scene appear to her with Selina by her side!
Selina was spring, summer, sunshine, and all to Leila, and she had not a
sigh to give to the falling leaves or the moaning wind.

As the carriage drew up before the same low, picturesque-looking house,
which she had before visited, Matilda and Alfred (who with their papa
and mamma had preceded them but a few minutes) stood holding the
house-door open, ready to give them welcome. Little Alfred bustled out
to assist in letting down the steps, and Matilda, in her eagerness to
help them to alight, had well nigh brought them to the ground
Mr. Howard exclaimed, as he endeavoured to catch hold
of Leila's frock; but Matilda had succeeded in extricating both the
little girls from the carriage
she cried
Selina did remember: she coloured, her eyes filled with tears, and
throwing her arms first round her sister's neck, and then round Leila's,
she darted from their side
Leila anxiously inquired
Matilda answered; and pointing to a door on the
opposite side of the passage, she flew back to the carriage to assist in
getting out the parcels.

Leila crossed the passage, and softly opened the door; Selina was on her
knees by the side of her little bed; she timidly advanced, and lifting
the white muslin curtain which partly concealed Selina's slight figure,
she knelt by her side. As the two little girls rose from their knees,
their eyes met eyes so full of gratitude to heaven, as almost made
Selina's half-whispered explanation
she continued
When Selina returned soon after, she found Leila and Matilda, assisted
by Amy, arranging the smaller parcels, and carrying them to the
different rooms. Matilda looked eagerly in Selina's eyes
she said, reproachfully
Leila answered
Matilda laughed
she said, turning to Leila, and
passing her arm round her waist
The three little girls proceeded to the school-room
Leila exclaimed
Matilda inquired
Leila answered
Matilda observed
Matilda answered
Leila exclaimed
she covered her face with her hands and shuddered
Matilda anxiously inquired, as she pulled down
Leila's hands, and tried to get a sight of her face
Leila answered, in a voice so low that the words were
scarcely audible.

But Matilda caught them
she cried
Selina coloured
she said,
timidly
and she looked anxiously at Matilda
Matilda inquired.

Selina proceeded
Matilda said
Matilda inquired
both the others exclaimed
Selina asked
Leila said, in a sorrowful
tone; then added
Matilda eagerly exclaimed
Matilda answered
Leila's face brightened
she said, as they all
three ran off together
Matilda's faults and Leila's fears seemed alike forgotten. They talked,
and laughed, and ran races, till fatigue at last made a quieter mode of
amusement desirable, even to Matilda. The arbour, which was in a
sheltered spot at one end of the garden, was still almost in summer
beauty,-- the china-roses and many of the autumn flowers were yet in rich
luxuriance, and the bright beams of the sun brought back the feeling of
summer with all its gladness. As they seated themselves in the arbour, a
robin flew down from a neighbouring tree, and timidly advanced within
the entrance, then paused and seemed to fix its clear bright eye on
Leila; she softly raised her hand, and pointed to her lips to enjoin
silence; but Matilda made a sudden movement, and the next moment the
robin was gone. Leila sighed
Matilda inquired
Leila answered, cheerfully
she stopped and coloured
Matilda exclaimed,
reproachfully
Selina placed her hands before Matilda's mouth
and she pointed to Leila,
who stood covering her face with her hands, while the tears trickled
down between her fingers.

Matilda flew to her; she tried to remove her hands, and kissed her
repeatedly
Leila removed her hands from her face, and hastily brushed away her
tears; then, throwing her arms round Matilda's neck, she said
Matilda was beginning to say.

Leila stopped her
she fixed her eyes fondly on Selina
she
added
Matilda anxiously inquired
She hesitated, then continued
She stopped and shuddered
Matilda exclaimed
and she looked fondly at Selina
Matilda said, hastily
Selina looked up and smiled
Matilda exclaimed, colouring violently
Selina answered
Leila eagerly said
Matilda said
She was off in a moment
inquired Leila, as they entered the house together
Selina answered
Selina answered
Matilda's idea, that their having a governess was a point determined on,
proved more correct than her hasty conclusions generally did. Mr. Howard
had been for some time aware that the mode of life which he must pursue
in England would prevent him giving that undivided attention to Leila
which his island home had afforded him, and which every day was becoming
more necessary in the formation of her inquiring mind and impetuous
character. He felt that Nurse, with all her fond affection, in her
attempts to rule, was only fostering in his child a spirit of opposition
and self-will; and that Leila was beginning to think in many things she
knew better than Nurse, and that she did right to reject counsel, which,
though always well intended, was often not judiciously given. Though
resolved not to yield to the feeling, he had been too long accustomed to
the exclusive society of his child, not to be aware that there would be
many occasions in which the presence of a third person would prove
irksome to him, and it was therefore with real gratitude that he
listened to Mrs. Stanley's proposal, that the intended governess should
reside under their roof, yet still have the joint charge of the cousins
she observed
When Mr. Howard sent for Leila next day to communicate this
intelligence, she entered his room with an unusually grave expression;
the dreaded idea of a governess had been haunting her imagination the
whole morning, and gaining strength every minute. She advanced slowly,
and taking her papa's hand in hers, she looked up anxiously into his
eyes
she said
Mr. Howard answered, as he stooped down and kissed her
forehead
Her voice failed, she could
not continue.

Mr. Howard looked at her anxiously
Leila's face brightened
she exclaimed: then added
Leila exclaimed
Mr. Howard smiled
he
inquired
Leila's countenance fell
she
ejaculated, in a very low voice.

But her papa caught the words
he
repeated
she replied
Leila repeated the word _correct_
Mr. Howard continued
she anxiously inquired
But seeing Leila's downcast face, he added
he continued
Mr. Howard answered
When Leila entered the school-room Selina was reading, but Matilda stood
gazing out at the window with rather a disturbed expression of
countenance
she said
Leila had not been able to resist laughing at first; but she checked
herself, and remained silent.

Selina spoke
But no sooner had Leila communicated the pleasant intelligence of the
proposed visit to Woodlands, than all traces of sorrow were banished
from Matilda's face; she was in ecstasies, and, flying across the room,
she dashed the book from Selina's hands, and throwing her arms round her
neck, she exclaimed
Leila answered
The walk proved every way delightful. The sky so brightly blue, the
sunshine splendid, and the woods, now tinted with the glowing hues of
autumn, gave additional beauty to the scene. Here and there a solitary
unprotected tree, standing out from the others, might have given warning
to more contemplative minds that winter and its storms were approaching;
but there was no winter in their young hearts -- all was fresh, gay, and
green, and withered leaves brought to them no memory of blighted hopes,
and of a world of many sorrows.

The distance could not be two miles, they all agreed, though Matilda and
Alfred did their best to lengthen it, by continuing, during every few
yards of their progress, to run up a little bank by the side of the road
and down again, assuring the others that it was by far the quickest way
of getting on, but Leila greatly preferred walking quietly straight
forward with Selina; it was always a particular pleasure to her to have
Selina entirely to herself. She now related to her all her papa had told
her of Mrs. Roberts, and many were the good resolutions made by both,
that they would do all they could to make her situation pleasant to her.
As they came in sight of a pretty-looking house, standing in a small
garden, Leila stopped
she said
A countryman came up to them at that moment, walking very quickly, and
was about to pass on before. Leila ran forward
she said
The man turned back and looked at her with astonishment
Leila timidly inquired; then added
he
continued, more mildly, (observing Leila's expression of blank dismay
then added
with a sigh
Leila meekly
answered
The ruddy face of the countryman became actually pale, as he pulled off
his hat, and stood immovable before Leila
Matilda, who from the moment she had joined them, had continued walking
with the others, and had hitherto remained wonderfully silent, could now
no longer restrain herself
she said
Leila exclaimed in a voice of entreaty
then turning with a smile to the
poor man, who still remained uncovered before them
she said
In a few minutes longer they had reached the lodge, a pretty small
thatched house in the cottage style, with a profusion of China roses and
honeysuckles on its white walls. Leila instantly thought how
delightfully it would have suited Peggy Dobie, but she did not say so.
The gates were no longer shut, they stood most invitingly open; a tidy,
pleasant-looking young woman seemed to have been watching for them at
the door of the cottage
she exclaimed
But the young people were too impatient to listen to further details;
the moment they entered the gates they bounded forward. The windings of
the approach, though calculated to show the finest trees on the
property, they thought much too long, and by the time they reached the
house they were breathless with impatience. Mr. Howard, who had been
watching them from the window, was at the door to meet them
he said, and he stooped down and kissed Leila repeatedly
Leila seemed at first quite bewildered; the entrance hall seemed to be
so large, the drawing-room larger _still_. The windows of the
drawing-room opened on a trellised balcony, festooned with creeping
plants, and filled with rare and beautiful flowers; a broad flight of
steps, with stone balustrades on each side, and large vases, scarlet
pomegranate and pink oleander in full bloom, led from this balcony to
the terrace below; and beyond this terrace the velvet turf, interspersed
with beds of gay and fragrant flowers, sloped down to the edge of the
broad river, on which many little boats were gliding up and down;
happily no steamboat being in sight on this first-favoured moment.

All were loud in their expressions of admiration; they had never seen
any thing more beautiful; but though Leila admired, she seemed still
bewildered, and almost more oppressed than pleased
Selina whispered
Leila brightened a little, but still looked anxiously around the room
she said.

It was Matilda's observation
that had
done all this; poor Leila was weighed down to the ground with a sudden
sense of her responsibilities; to common observers she was a simple
child, young, even for her years; but there was often a deep
under-current of thought about her, to be discovered only in the changes
of her expressive countenance, and in the hesitating, varied tones of
her voice.

Mr. Howard understood her
he
said
Leila, from the moment of entering the house, had been working herself
up, and struggling against comfort; but comfort, in the shape of such a
Christmas party as this, who could resist? She quickly gave herself up
to all its happy influences, and when her papa led her into the
adjoining breakfast-room, which was small, and leading into a spacious
conservatory, she was in ecstasies
she exclaimed
All was sunshine to her again; it was a moment of exquisite happiness,
such happiness as is only to be felt in very early life, before the sad
memories of the past
The young people returned home in high spirits; Leila forgetting every
care in the remembrance of the beautiful conservatory, and in the
anticipation of the enjoyment of her birds in taking possession of it;
and Matilda far too much excited to allow any of them to rest, even for
a moment
she said
and flying into the passage,
she seized her papa's hat, placed it on one side on her head, tied over
her dress a green linen pinafore of Alfred's to imitate a blouse, and
returning into the room
she said
Leila exclaimed
Matilda laughed
she said
Leila was quite relieved and satisfied, and the play proceeded; and so
admirably did Matilda imitate Bill's voice and manner, and so complete
was the picture when she drew off the hat, and stood with a face of mute
dismay before them, that Selina and Leila were convulsed with laughter;
as to little Alfred, he stamped so loud, and called _encore_ so often,
that even Matilda, with all her love of amusement, was fairly exhausted
she said
Leila said
Matilda replied
Selina exclaimed
Matilda answered
Matilda asked
She stopped and
coloured
Matilda eagerly asked
Matilda said
Matilda said, reproachfully
Selina looked distressed, and coloured
Leila said quickly
Leila inquired
Leila observed
Tears stood in Matilda's eyes
she said
and she rose and left the room
Selina said
Leila was left alone
she whispered to herself; and clasping her hands together, she
looked up for a moment, then left the room to seek her father
Nearly a month had passed rapidly away: Mr. Howard had been much in
London during the mornings, selecting furniture for Woodlands, and
giving many necessary orders for their future comfort; and Mrs. Stanley
had been well pleased to find that the joint example of Selina and Leila
appeared to have a beneficial effect on Matilda; the daily lessons went
on smoothly and well. Matilda now learned her texts regularly, and after
the first few days, had always selected them for herself; and these
texts generally evinced, not only a knowledge of her own faults, but a
sincere desire to get the better of them: the text for that morning had
been
And the answer she had selected was
During this period Woodlands had been frequently visited. Leila had
become more and more pleased with the grounds, and the beautiful walks
with which it abounded.

Mr. Howard had selected a pretty little cottage, near the poultry-yard,
for Peggy Dobie, and Leila had had much delight in seeing the China
roses, and several pretty creepers, trained on its white walls, and the
little garden put in nice order, and well stocked with useful winter
vegetables. She had asked the gardener to put up a green turf seat in a
warm corner of the garden; he had humbly proposed that it should be in
the shade, but Leila said no -- that Peggy Dobie always sat in the sun
when she watched her bees, and that she said
Peggy had been allowed time to visit her friends before leaving her
country, but the period was now approaching for her arrival, and Leila's
gay spirits were in full flow. Selina, the cat, and one solitary parrot,
had been poor substitutes for the loss of all the other favourites;
above all, the absence of Dash had been particularly felt and mourned
over
she said
The morning in which Peggy Dobie was to embark with her precious cargo
rose calm and bright. The wind, which had been threatening to rise the
day before, was completely lulled, and Leila had been rejoicing in the
brightness of the day, and had watched the sun go down in golden
splendour. Later in the evening, however, the wind began to rise again,
but not so as at all to alarm her, and Leila's tranquil sleep was
unbroken by the coming storm, the loud howling of the blast amidst the
trees, and the sound of distant thunder -- it was a fearful night. Mr.
Howard had more than once left his bed to look out upon the scene of
desolation, for the ground was strewed with branches from the trees, and
the clouds were driving before the wind with unceasing velocity. It
recalled to his mind that dreadful night when he seemed about to part
with all most dear to him, and though deeply grateful for the present
safety of one so loved, he yet felt painfully anxious for those that
might now be in similar circumstances. The good old woman too, whom he
had been the means of removing from her quiet home, he thought what
Leila's grief would be, and his own regrets, if aught of ill befell
her. Of all this threatened danger Leila was in ignorance till awakened
next morning by Nurse: her face of dismay Leila was too sleepy to
observe, but her words were startling
she exclaimed
Leila cried, starting up and rubbing her eyes
Leila was out of bed in a moment, and gazing from the window. The lawn
was strewed with leaves and branches from the trees; one branch lay
across the doorway, so very large, it seemed an entire tree. She
shuddered. Mr. Howard entered the room at this moment, and lifting her
in his arms, he replaced her in bed, and sat down beside her.

Leila's long dark eyelashes were wet with tears; her cheeks were very
pale, and she trembled violently. Mr. Howard stooped down and kissed her
forehead
she replied, in a low voice
Leila hastily brushed the tears from her eyes, and laid her little hand
on her papa's. Mr. Howard started, it was so very cold; but she
struggled for composure, and said in a calm voice
Leila kept her promise. Not a moment did she give way to outward
emotion, but during that day many an anxious expression passed over her
sweet face, for the storm continued to rage fearfully, and the party
were constantly startled from their seats by the crashing sound of some
large branch from the surrounding trees. These creaking and crashing
sounds constantly brought a frightful moment to Leila's imagination, and
no one was without anxiety, for it was impossible to believe but that
such a storm must bring disastrous consequences to many an anxious
heart. Selina seldom left Leila's side for a moment, and made constant
efforts to draw her into conversation; and Matilda, as every fresh gust
of wind arose, exerted herself in every way she could think of to
distract her attention from the scene without. Later in the day it began
to rain heavily, and the wind fell, and towards evening the sky cleared,
and the moon shone out so bright, so calm, its mild rays shed instant
peace and hope into Leila's young heart, and she lay down to sleep with
many bright anticipations of the morrow.

The morrow came, the lawn looked fresh and green, all traces of the
storm had been removed, and every surrounding object seemed rejoicing
in the sunshine. Leila proposed that after the lessons they should walk
with Nurse and Amy to Woodlands to see if all was in order in Peggy
Dobie's cottage for her reception in the evening
she said
was all Mr. Howard's answer, as he patted her
head, and the next moment she was gone.

As soon as the lessons were over, the young party proceeded merrily on
their way to Woodlands. They soon reached the lodge, and found Bill at
his post, who opened the gates, and gave them entrance with the greatest
alacrity; and when informed of their intention to visit Peggy Dobie's
cottage, took down a large key that hung behind his own door, and
prepared to lead the way. He would not hear of Nurse's proposal to save
him that trouble
he said
They were all much pleased with the perfect order in which they found
every thing around the cottage, and still more delighted with all
within. Mr. Howard had indeed done his part; the little bed-room looked
so comfortable, with its nice tidy bed in one corner, its chest of
drawers, its white deal table, with basin, ewer, &amp;c., all, in short, was
complete. And then the kitchen -- the kitchen was a picture indeed; there
stood the pretty chairs, and the small round table of walnut-tree,
looking so bright, which Leila had entreated her papa to procure for
Peggy. In a corner next the latticed window, was a small cupboard with a
glass door, showing such pretty cups, saucers, and glasses within, as
could not fail soon to become the pride of Peggy's heart. Above the
small dresser there were shelves with plates, and dishes, and bowls, and
mugs innumerable, and close by the door a cuckoo clock was ticking
cheerily. They all looked round in perfect ecstasies
Leila exclaimed
she said, turning to Bill
Matilda said
She was off in a moment, and returned with a couple in her
hand
Leila said, coaxingly
She was on her
knees on the hearth, and had struck a light in a moment
Bill stood looking on in mute astonishment
he said at last
Leila said
she continued, looking up in Bill's face
Bill smiled
he
replied
Leila answered
Once more she looked around the room to see if all was perfect; the
small latticed window with the China-roses clustering in about it, she
was sure would delight Peggy, for Peggy was so fond of flowers; might
they not gather a few and make a nosegay for the middle of the table.
The next moment they were all in the little garden -- the flowers were
quickly gathered and arranged, and after giving Bill many injunctions to
be so very kind as to step up frequently and put more wood on the fire,
and also to be quite sure to send off a quick messenger the very moment
Peggy and the pets entered the gates, they left the cottage.

They had not time to enter the house at Woodlands, where all with regard
to furnishing had been going on prosperously, but they had seen what had
been done there more than once. Leila had thought it all beautiful, but
she had a simple taste; she really did not like fine things, and her
only request with regard to the furnishing had been
The rest of the day passed in pleasant expectation, but towards evening
the young people got very restless indeed, and little Alfred was
perpetually popping out at the door and running a little way down the
gravel walk, in the hope of meeting some one from Woodlands, and
bringing the first intelligence; but no carrier-pigeon or swift
messenger of any kind arrived; and at a later hour than usual the young
people retired to rest, disappointed, but not alarmed. To-morrow was a
new day, and to-morrow would bring all they wished. But to-morrow came;
it was a long trying day of expectation, and still no tidings were
received. It was with great difficulty that they could attend at all to
their lessons; but Mrs. Stanley was very indulgent, and repeated most of
them herself; and the moment they were over, she despatched them all to
count over their clothes, and to put their drawers in order; to be busy
and active was what she particularly required of them on that long, long
day. It came to an end at last, and they went early to bed; but Mr.
Howard had now become seriously uneasy, and next morning, as soon as
breakfast was over, went to London to inquire at the steamboat office if
they had received any intelligence with regard to the
Leila's face quite brightened as she saw him depart; the very idea that
he would bring back intelligence quite raised her spirits; she never for
a moment dreaded that this intelligence might not be favourable.

Mr. Howard returned sooner than was expected, but he had learned
nothing. Neither the Victoria, nor the other steamboat which had sailed
on the same day, had come in, and the owners were in much anxiety, as
there were reports of several wrecks on the coast. This last part of the
intelligence received, Mr. Howard did not communicate to Leila, but he
looked anxious, and she knew his face too well not to feel considerable
alarm. Next day he again went to London. Mrs. Stanley saw it would be
too much to ask any of them to attend to their lessons; Leila was
beginning to have a pale, exhausted look, she therefore gave Selina a
book of natural history to read to them aloud, while the other two
worked by the window. Poor Leila, she did not listen much. She worked
very little, and looked out a great deal; after some hours horses' hoofs
were heard on the gravel walk; she saw her papa alight at the door; her
heart beat violently; she felt unable to move; he looked up and smiled;
she could not read that smile; it was sweet as usual, for when was his
smile ever otherwise when it rested on her? But it was a melancholy
smile. He entered the room, they all clustered round him
he said.

Leila clapped her hands
she cried
Mr. Howard continued, looking anxiously at her
he stopped
Mr. Howard drew her towards him
Mr. Howard then went on to say that he had not been able to see the
captain, and had got but a confused account from two of the sailors, but
that both agreed in the same story. The storm had been most fearful;
they had anchored that dreadful night off Scarborough, but with little
hope of being able to keep their anchor. They expected every moment to
be driven on the shore. The passengers in the fore cabin were too much
frightened to keep below as they were advised and entreated to do. A
heavy sea had swept the deck, and several of them were swept overboard.
Peggy, with Dash by her side, had been seen on deck the moment before by
both these sailors. The night was frightfully dark, the sea running
mountain high; to save any of them was impossible. Next morning both
Peggy and Dash were amongst those missing.

Leila for a moment did not utter a word, she grew deadly pale, then
throwing her arms round her papa's neck, she cried
but seeing her papa's look of distress, she stopped, then
continued
and she drew Selina towards her, and with her
pocket-handkerchief she wiped Selina's eyes, then went on
She covered her face
with her hands and sobbed violently.

Mr. Howard did not attempt to console her or to stop her tears; he
lifted her gently in his arms, and laying her on the sofa, sat down
beside her, clasping her hand in his.

After some time she became more calm; she lifted his hand to her lips
and kissed it, then shutting her eyes she in a few minutes dropped
asleep; it was but a troubled sleep, but all were thankful that it had
brought forgetfulness for the present. After some time she awoke with a
sudden start, slowly she remembered all. Sad memories they were which
clouded her sweet face, and tears again filled her eyes, but brushing
them hastily away, she said, in a low voice
Then rising
from the sofa she slowly left the room.

Matilda sprang up to follow her, but Selina held her back, and whispered
in her ear
Anxious to see the captain of the Victoria, and if possible to obtain
more intelligence, Mr. Howard, on the following morning, again went to
London, but to his disappointment found that the vessel had sailed on
her downward passage a few hours before. A gentleman came into the
office while he was there to inquire for one of his trunks which was
missing, and Mr. Howard found he had been a passenger in the Victoria.
He said he had been much at sea, but had only once before been out in a
similar storm; that their escape had been most providential, as several
vessels near them had been driven on shore. The frightful accident which
had taken place had thrown a heavy gloom on all; their being unable to
render any assistance had been heart-rending; it was a moment, he said,
he never could forget, but the darkness of the night and the violence of
the storm had rendered all attempts impossible. Not half an hour after
the wind had fallen in some degree for a short time, and a boat had put
off from the shore; some of the passengers had taken advantage of this,
and had left the vessel; but it seemed to him as if no boat could live
in such a sea, and he had, after some hesitation, resolved to abide by
the ship.

Leila listened in breathless agitation
Leila sighed heavily
Then taking her papa's hand, she looked anxiously up
in his face, and said
She stopped
and she hastily walked to the
window and looked out. She was determined not again to give way.

Leila's naturally buoyant spirits did not long remain much depressed;
still the sudden shock, after all her bright anticipations, had been so
great, that it left evident traces in her appearance, and when any
accidental circumstance recalled the late events, a pang of such acute
sorrow shot through her frame as it greatly pained Mr. Howard to
witness, and he was not sorry that neither Mr. and Mrs. Herbert nor the
Selbys had accepted his invitation for Christmas; the Selbys had a
family party that day, and the Herberts were on a tour of visits; both
parties, however, promised to be at Woodlands soon after Christmas, and
Mr. Herbert added, that if Mr. Howard would allow him, he would be glad
to introduce to him his son, who would be at home for the holidays.
Christmas-day, therefore, would be spent in a manner more congenial to
the tone of their present feelings; and Mr. Howard arranged that they
should not remove to Woodlands till a few days before, when Leila could
have the comfort of having her uncle and aunt and her cousins with her.

The meeting with her pets again had been very trying to Leila, and still
more so was her first visit to Peggy Dobie's cottage; Susan, Bill's
wife, had been employed to take charge of her pets for the present, till
some one could be found to fill the situation, and the cottage had
continued locked up. Matilda had in vain tried to dissuade Leila from
making this visit, but she said she felt sure she would feel better when
it was over, and she thought of it so much; and Selina seemed to be of
the same opinion. It appeared as yesterday when she had been there
before, but with what different feelings! there stood the glass with the
withered flowers, on the little table, and the wood-ashes lay cold upon
the hearth. Leila gazed earnestly on every object which before had given
her such delight; the tears ran silently down her cheeks, there was no
violent emotion. She turned Peggy's own chair from the hearth, and
placed it against the wall, then left the cottage followed by Selina and
Matilda. She was certainly better after all this was over, yet there
were feelings which did not soon leave her; she could not help
remembering, with self-accusation, that her papa had only yielded to
Peggy's removal to England in consequence of her entreaties; he had at
first represented to her that at Peggy's time of life it were wiser to
leave her in her own country, and probably more for her happiness to do
so; but Leila had been carried away too much by her own wishes in this
instance to practise the lesson of self-sacrifice which her papa so
often inculcated; she now felt this deeply, and it was a lesson not lost
upon her
The day had now arrived when Mrs. Roberts was expected; the young people
were all assembled in the school-room busy with their different tasks;
Selina and Leila were seated silently at their writing-desks,
translating English into French; Alfred quietly in a corner, drawing
birds and animals on a slate, his favourite employment. Matilda alone
was restless and unquiet; she kept constantly running from the table to
the window, holding a book of French dialogues in her hand, and looking
out on the approach, while she rhymed the same phrase over and over
again
Selina shook her head
she continued
Selina quickly said, and went on with her writing
Selina inquired
and she snatched the slate from
his hand
and she
pushed him out at the door.

Alfred returned again almost immediately
he said
All the three young girls jumped up and ran instantly to the window. The
steps of the carriage were let down, a ladylike person, rather slender,
and rather above the middle height, stepped out, her bonnet entirely
concealing her face. Mr. Stanley came forward, he seemed to welcome her
kindly; they entered the house together. The next moment they heard the
drawing-room door close. Matilda glided from the room.

Selina looked anxiously after her; in a few minutes she returned
she said
Selina looked distressed
The drawing-room bell rang; in a few minutes Amy tapped at the
school-room door to say the young ladies were wanted in the
drawing-room. They all went down.

Mrs. Roberts seemed talking earnestly to their mamma when they entered;
but she stopped, and as Mrs. Stanley introduced them, said a few kind
words to each. Her face was not pretty till she smiled; her smile was
very pleasing, and her voice was low and sweet. Leila felt she should
like her; both she and Selina, when addressed, said something in return,
and probably just what they ought to say, though no one heard it;
Matilda said nothing. Almost immediately after Mrs. Stanley told them
they might return to the school-room, that Mrs. Roberts was probably a
little tired with her journey, but if she felt inclined by and by for a
walk, they might join them in the garden.

It was all over in a moment
Matilda exclaimed, as they entered
the school-room again
Both answered
Matilda repeated
Selina anxiously inquired
Selina saw that at this moment it was a hopeless case; she did not even
attempt the vindication of the nose.

Mrs. Stanley was not disappointed in her expectations with regard to
Mrs. Roberts; she proved to be a highly principled, amiable,
accomplished woman, and with a gentle steadiness about her which
peculiarly fitted her for the task she had undertaken. With Selina and
Leila she had comparatively little trouble, and they soon became fond of
her, and anxious to give her satisfaction, but with Matilda she had a
far more difficult task; besides having strong prejudices to combat, she
had to struggle not only with careless inattentive habits, but often
with an obstinate determination not to overcome them, for Matilda's
goodness as yet only came by fits and starts; there was no very steady
improvement, and the arrival of Mrs. Roberts seemed rather to have
thrown her back. She had fancied that she would not like her, and she
seemed too often to have a wish to act up to the opinion she had formed.
Mrs. Roberts' patience with her was wonderful; indifferent observers
might have fancied that Matilda was her favourite; she spoke more to her
than to the others, often conversing cheerfully with her on interesting
subjects, and trying to draw out her feelings and sentiments; and
Matilda, though she gave her much trouble, was not quite insensible to
this. There were times when she acknowledged that Mrs. Roberts was
rather a kind person, though her nose did droop.

The removal to Woodlands now took place, and the following morning Mrs.
Roberts granted a holiday to the young people, that every room in the
house might be visited and properly admired, and also that Leila might
have time to settle with Susan as to a convenient arrangement for
several of her pets, while, with the assistance of her cousins, she hung
the cages with the parrots and the smaller birds up in the conservatory.
She had for some time been bringing up a pair of turtle-doves as a gift
to Mina, and teaching a young parrot to speak, which she intended for
Louisa. The turtle-doves were now at a very interesting age, just
beginning to be independent, and to coo to each other in a most
melodious manner, and the parrot gave proof of fine abilities, and could
already say
The house was most comfortably though simply furnished; but the
conservatory delighted Leila more than any part of it: the flowers so
fragrant, so bright and beautiful, and the birds so happy, they were
already singing in the branches. Once more she walked about amongst the
birds and flowers, and felt that but for one sad thought she would not
have had a wish ungratified. She quite longed to give her papa an
account of all her arrangements, and went in search of him. She found
Mr. Howard reading in his library, but he answered her little tap at his
door with his usual kind voice
and the book was thrown aside, and she, seated on a low stool at
his knee, kept looking up in his face, and pouring out her little
history, he entering into all her arrangements with all the attention
and satisfaction her heart could desire
she continued
and her countenance brightened again
Mr. Howard continued
she continued
Leila looked up anxiously in her papa's face
she
said
Mr. Howard smiled mournfully as he answered
Leila continued
and she hastily
brushed the tears from her eyes.

Her papa carefully unfolded a small paper which he took from his
pocket-book, and showed Leila a very few small seeds
she asked, inquiringly
She started
Leila gazed at them earnestly
Mr. Howard said
but seeing
her look of distress, he added
and
selecting three of the seeds, she folded them into another paper
and she darted off
Old David, who had been many years at Woodlands, was indeed very
good-natured, and from the day when Leila had evinced so much anxiety to
have poor Peggy's garden put in nice order, had taken quite a fancy to
his young mistress. He stood over her while she sprinkled the earth
gently upon the seeds, having given her a flower-pot of the proper size
to put them in, and he seemed much interested as to their coming up, but
could give no positive opinion when that event might take place
he remarked
he said
for Leila had told him they came from the
island, though he had no idea of the other circumstances which made them
so precious in her


eyes. The residence of the squire on a desert island had for some time
past been a favourite subject of discussion both in David's cottage and
at the lodge, and the wonderful histories related by Nurse had been
listened to with the most profound attention and astonishment, and had
served to throw a sort of romantic interest around both Mr. Howard and
his child. Old David had remarked
But to return to Leila. She had just completed sowing the precious seeds
when Alfred ran into the conservatory
he said
Leila, having placed the flower-pot in what David pronounced to be the
most favoured spot in the conservatory, proceeded immediately with
Alfred to seek Mrs. Roberts. They found Selina and Matilda with her
Alfred began, in a hesitating manner, as they entered
the room
and he placed a little bit of paper, crumpled up, before
Mrs. Roberts.

Matilda jumped up
and
she was about to seize the paper, but Alfred spread his hands over it
Mrs. Roberts said gently;
and, turning to Alfred, she continued
Alfred then proceeded to say that he had been playing in the garden, and
on lifting up a stone, a number of spiders had run out from below it,
that one was very large and beautifully spotted, that he did not mean to
kill it or even to catch it, only to touch it very gently with his
finger; but on his doing so, immediately all its legs fell off, and it
dropped down dead; that he instantly looked for its legs, but could not
see them, they had quite melted away. And Alfred was so overcome by the
recital of this sad catastrophe, that he dissolved into tears
Matilda exclaimed
Matilda continued
Alfred now did not know whether to laugh or cry, but unfolding the
paper, he carefully laid before Mrs. Roberts what appeared to be a very
small, shapeless particle of brown earth -- it certainly had no
resemblance to a spider
he said, in a mysterious whisper, intended only for
the ears of Mrs. Roberts
he continued aloud
Matilda laughed
Mrs. Roberts said
then turning to Alfred, she
continued
Alfred's countenance brightened.

Mrs. Roberts continued
She placed
the paper on a small work-table in a sunny corner of the room, and laid
the spider upon it
she said
In a few minutes the spider unfolded its legs, and running across the
paper to the edge of the table, it shot out a slender thread from its
body, by which it swiftly descended to the ground.

Alfred clapped his hands, exclaiming
and Mrs. Roberts took a cup in which she carefully
caught the spider without touching it, and having placed this cup in a
saucer full of water, she desired them to watch its further proceedings.
The spider ran repeatedly to the brim of the cup descending on the other
side, but was always stopped by the water which surrounded it. Sadly
perplexed by this unexpected obstacle, after having ran round and round
by the edge of the water several times, it stood still, and raised its
two fore-legs in the air
Mrs. Roberts said
they all exclaimed. But this world of waters
seemed quite overwhelming to the poor spider, who could feel no current
of air, and it was returning hopelessly into the cup when Mrs. Roberts
said
and she blew very gently in the
desired direction.

The spider instantly descended again to the edge of the water, and shot
out a thread, which it fixed to the cup at one end, while the other end
floating in the air, also became fixed to the brim of the saucer. It
first pulled this thread with its fore-feet, as if to ascertain its
strength, then passed swiftly along it, spinning another floating thread
as it went, lest the first should not be sufficiently secure to ensure
its safety, and arriving safely on the brim of the saucer, descended the
other side, and once more scampered off
Matilda exclaimed
Leila glanced towards Mrs. Roberts half afraid.

But Mrs. Roberts only smiled
she said
Matilda looked gratefully at Mrs. Roberts, and sudden in all her
impulses, she jumped up, and kissed her hand; then turning round, she
said
Leila answered, quietly
Matilda said, impatiently
Matilda said, eagerly
Selina observed
Leila coloured
she said
They were off in a moment, and soon returned with two spiders in the
tumbler
Matilda said
Leila lifted the smaller of the two spiders very gently, and took up a
needle
Matilda exclaimed
Leila answered
She then very dexterously disengaged the bag of eggs without breaking
it, and put it on the table. The spider, instead of running away, as it
otherwise would have done, showed the greatest anxiety to regain it. She
slowly wandered over every corner of the table, crawling over books,
work-boxes, &amp;c., &amp;c., as if in search of something; then, having at last
discovered the lost bag behind Selina's work-box, she suddenly made a
rush towards it, and having seized it with her upper pair of jaws, she
ran off with it, carrying it as a cat often does its kitten
Matilda exclaimed
But Leila caught the spider, and taking the bag from her again, she put
her under the tumbler where the larger spider was
she said
and hardly had she spoken, when both spiders were struggling and
fighting violently for the possession of the bag -- they reared themselves
up, extending their front legs in a threatening attitude, and showing
their angry feelings in the most evident manner. In the struggle the
other bag of eggs became detached from the larger spider, and the little
one, after making the most violent efforts to seize it, finally
succeeded; the larger spider having rolled over, the other one scampered
off with the bag, and Leila having raised the tumbler to permit its
escape, it was presently again on the table -- it passed its own bag of
eggs on its way to the window, but took no notice, seemingly quite
satisfied with its stolen treasure. The other spider was now also set at
liberty, and having, after running about some time, discovered the other
bag of eggs, it was making a dart towards it, when Mrs. Roberts took the
bag up, and having pricked it with a needle, instantly a multitude of
young ones ran out, and climbing up on the old spider, almost covered
her -- she remained quite still, apparently overwhelmed (as well she might
be) with the burden of such a family
Selina observed
Matilda said
Mrs. Roberts shook her head but could not help being amused
she replied
She gently lifted
the spider, placed it in the glass, and gave it to Matilda -- then added
Christmas had now passed: on the morning of that day they had all
attended church, then walked to a pretty, small village on the property,
to visit several of the cottagers; Mr. Howard having, the day before,
sent money and a supply of blankets and of coats to those that required
such assistance. In the evening a mutual exchange of gifts took place at
Woodlands, which greatly interested the young people; but the day was on
the whole a trying one to Leila; she had not regained her former
spirits, and it seemed as if those particular days to which she had
looked forward with the most pleasure, seemed still more to recall the
memory of her late trial. A short time after Christmas, the expected
party assembled at Woodlands. The Selbys were the first to arrive.
Captain Selby was delighted to see again his little fairy queen, as he
called Leila. Louisa seemed improved, taller, and with more animation of
manner; and the meeting between Leila and her was most affectionate on
both sides. Louisa was soon taken to the conservatory, followed by
Selina and Matilda; Louisa stealing many a look at Selina, who had long
been a subject of much interest to her, though not unmixed with dread,
lest she should too entirely usurp her former place with Leila; but the
kind reception she met with greatly reassured her. She struggled with
her natural timidity, and Matilda did much to establish something like
ease between the parties: she eagerly introduced Louisa to all her
former favourites amongst the pets; and seemed most anxious to draw her
attention to one of the parrots in particular
Louisa observed
The parrot instantly flew to the side of its cage, exclaiming
Matilda clapped her hands
Louisa was still holding Leila's hand, and trying to thank her, when
Leila was called away. The Herberts had arrived. She found Mina eagerly
watching for her at the drawing-room door, all her usual shyness having
given way before the interest of the moment. The meeting between them
was of the most affectionate nature; but no one till that moment had
suspected the depth of feeling with which Leila had looked forward to
seeing Mrs. Herbert again
she exclaimed, as clasped in
Mrs. Herbert's arms, she hid her face on her shoulder, and struggled to
retain her tears. Mrs. Herbert was much affected, and no real mother
could have more fondly returned her caresses; but seeing the struggle
Leila was making to restrain her emotion, she called her son Charles to
her side, and putting Leila's hand in his, she said with a cheerful
voice
But Leila was disappointed; Charles was not such as she had expected to
have seen, and looking up in his face she said hastily
The bright, sparkling look of pleasure with which he had approached to
meet her, faded before this reception; he too was disappointed, but he
only said with much gentleness
And he did manage to do so in a wonderfully short space of time, for he
had a good deal to overcome. Leila had expected to have seen a little
boy such as Alfred, and had been thinking a great deal of her little
brother, and how she would watch over him, and keep him out of scrapes;
she was quite bewildered when she saw before her a youth apparently
about sixteen, and it was not in the first moments of disappointment,
that his slight graceful figure, his beaming countenance, and deep blue
eyes, so full of sweetness and animation, had any charm for her; but
before the day was over she had told Mina in strict confidence, that she
did not think Charles nearly so tall as she had done at first, and that
she did not know why it was, but she was not half so frightened for him
as she expected she would have been; and the pleasant surprise of next
morning still further promoted intimacy between them. Leila was called
to the window by Selina to admire a beautiful small Arabian pony, which
Charles was leading up the approach towards the house; the side-saddle
and embroidered saddle-cloth seemed to say it was intended for a lady's
use; and what was Leila's astonishment and delight, when she found it
was a present from Mr. and Mrs. Herbert to herself; the beautiful
saddle-cloth the work of Mrs. Herbert and Mina. Leila had no words to
express what she felt; for to learn to ride, to have a pony of her own,
to accompany her papa in his rides, had long been the earnest wish of
her heart. Charles was immediately constituted riding-master to the
whole of the young party; a busy time he had, and with strict
impartiality did he fulfil his appointed duty; one point of difference
only did he insist on, he particularly requested that Leila alone was to
speak to the pony and caress it, and it was only to be from her hand it
was to receive a piece of bread on the commencement of its daily
labours, and also at their close. Selina had communicated to Charles the
sad story of Peggy Dobie and the faithful Dash; of all Leila had
suffered, and was still suffering, from their loss; and he felt that
could she become attached to a new object, it might in some degree
interest her mind: but though Leila soon became fond of her pretty
Selim, no new favourite could fill Dash's place to her; _he_ could never
be forgotten.

Many days passed pleasantly away, varied by rides, and walks, and
reading aloud. In the evening there generally was music. Mrs. Herbert
had a fine voice, which had been much cultivated, and Charles and Mina
did great credit to her instructions; the young people thought there
could be nothing more beautiful than the trios Charles and Mina sang
with their mamma Mrs. Herbert had proposed to have a singing class, and
to instruct the whole group; but Leila alone had become her pupil.
Louisa had very little genius for music; so little, that her mamma did
not wish her to give much time to its cultivation. Selina had been
forbidden to attempt singing for some years, her voice, even in
speaking, being still weak; and Matilda, Mrs. Stanley said, was, from
her habits of inattention, too far back in more necessary studies to be
allowed this indulgence.

Leila made considerable progress; from her having practised the guitar
so much during her residence on the island, she had acquired rather
unusual proficiency on that instrument, and her voice and taste being
naturally good, Mrs. Herbert found her both a willing and a successful
pupil. Matilda had often entreated her mamma to allow her also to learn
the guitar, for Matilda was ever eager for something new, always sure
that what she had no knowledge of would be much more easily acquired
than that which she was then studying; but Mrs. Stanley had always
steadily refused this request, though, at the same time, assuring
Matilda that, as soon as by steady and continued application, she had
made that progress in her other studies which her years and natural good
abilities admitted of, she should have every indulgence in the
cultivation of her musical taste. It had been quite a trial to Matilda
when first told that she was not to be allowed to take advantage of Mrs.
Herbert's kind offer of instruction; and her temper had been on the
point of giving way, but a look of entreaty from Selina had arrested the
angry words upon her lips; she had hastily quitted the room, and in a
very few minutes had returned with all her usual liveliness and
good-humour.

Mrs. Herbert had considerably regained her health and spirits, and with
the tranquil gentleness of past sorrow there was a warmth of affection
and winning sweetness of manner which each day endeared her more and
more to Leila, who never was happier than when, with her own transparent
openness of character, she was pouring all her thoughts, feelings, and
wishes into Mrs. Herbert's willing ear
she said one morning, as they sat alone
together, (she on a low stool looking up into Mrs. Herbert's face
Mrs. Herbert smiled
Leila answered
she
continued
Mrs. Herbert inquired
Leila answered
Leila stood in the conservatory, earnestly contemplating a flower-pot
she held in her hand, till startled by a voice behind her
She looked up; it was Charles who had entered the conservatory
unobserved, and was bending over her shoulder
she said
he replied
But observing Leila's heightened colour, and the expression of her face,
he added in quite a different tone
She lifted her eyes to his face
she
hesitated, then continued in an agitated voice
Charles's colour mounted to his forehead; he took her hand
he said
Leila said eagerly
Leila inquired
Leila said, as she took a chain from the folds of her
dress, and gave it into his hand
Leila touched the spring, it opened
he said
Leila coloured
she said, in a
low-toned voice.

Charles's countenance brightened, as in his usual lively manner he said
Leila exclaimed
and she put her hand into his
Selina's voice was heard calling her; she ran off, but returned
for a moment to say
To pay frequent visits to the village had of late been a great interest
to the young people; they had become acquainted with many of the
cottagers, and Leila had already begun to have a lively interest in
their children. As the party were now to leave Woodlands in a few days,
she proposed one morning that, as the weather was uncommonly fine, they
should cross the fields, under Charles's escort, and pay a sort of
farewell visit to some of the cottagers. The cold had been so severe in
the night, that the grass still felt crisp under their feet, though the
sunbeams glanced brightly on the scarlet berries of the holly, and on
the slender branches of the forest trees, feathered white by the
hoar-frost. At the village they were welcomed by old and young, for the
kind, frank manners of the young people had made them general
favourites; many of the children ran forward to meet them, but they
missed one little girl whom they had in former visits particularly
distinguished. Her mother's cottage stood at the end of the village,
and they found Dame Burton standing at her door, looking anxiously in
the direction of the road. She invited them as usual to enter, but
added
Leila instantly proposed that they should return by the road
she said
Then turning to Dame Burton, she added
The young people proceeded on their way, talking and laughing merrily;
Charles protesting
Leila looked up in his face in astonishment
Mina exclaimed, observing Leila's face of perplexity
Charles replied, laughing
Mina said
Louisa exclaimed
She was interrupted at this moment by the loud screams of a child; they
seemed to proceed from a lane, which, a few yards further on, branched
off from the road. The screams were continued with increased violence.
They caught sight of a little girl struggling to get free from a large
dog, which seemed dragging her along by her clothes.

Leila sprang forward
At the sound of her voice the dog let go its hold with a joyful bark of
recognition, and the next moment was leaping upon Leila with frantic
joy
she cried, as throwing her arms round his neck, she
almost stifled the faithful animal with her caresses
She turned to regain the road, but Dash would not
allow this; he began to pull Leila up the lane by her clothes, in the
same way he had been doing to the little girl
Charles said
They quickened their pace, but saw
nothing. Dash now frequently ran on a little way before them, returned
again and took hold of Leila's dress as before, looking up in her face,
as if encouraging her to go on. A sudden thought seized her; she darted
forwards -- she ran on a considerable way -- suddenly she saw a figure lying
stretched on a bank by the side of the lane; in the next moment she was
kneeling by Peggy Dobie's side!

The others came up. They found Leila clasping Peggy's hands and sobbing
violently
she said
Dash began at this moment to lick Peggy's face, she opened her eyes
she said, in a low faint voice
Her eyes closed again -- the momentary exertion
was too much.

Charles, who had been rubbing her cold hands, sprang to his feet
he said
He flew off. He returned, followed by the farmer to whom the house
belonged. Charles held a bowl of milk to Peggy's lips -- she seemed unable
to swallow
Leila cried
But the farmer was gone. He returned again in a few minutes with the
brandy and a thick blanket. With Charles's assistance he poured a little
brandy and water down Peggy's throat, and wrapped her in the warm
blanket
he said
Peggy was lifted into the cart, Selina and Leila also getting in and
supporting her in their arms. It was in vain Charles insisted on taking
this office on himself, they would not hear of it; it seemed as if it
were quite necessary for them to hold Peggy fast, as well as see her, to
convince them that the scene before them was not a joyful dream. But
Dash also appeared resolved to make one of the party in the cart -- he
leaped in, stretched himself on Peggy's feet, and to move him was
impossible
the farmer said
Leila answered.

The cart proceeded, followed by the others; when they arrived at the
lodge, Bill's astonishment was great, and his joy also, when he heard
the wonderful news, for he had taken the greatest interest in Leila's
distress; he called instantly to Susan to accompany them, and taking the
key, which was still in his charge, they took their way to Peggy's
cottage, Charles having been sent on to the house to request the
attendance of Nurse
Leila said
who
still remained in a state of stupor.

The fire was kindled, and Peggy laid upon her bed when Nurse arrived,
who, after giving her a small portion of nourishment, stood by the
bed-side holding her hand and gazing anxiously upon her
she said
Peggy opened her eyes
she said,
with a faint smile
Matilda said, eagerly
Selina whispered
Matilda added
Peggy repeated, as clasping her hands together in deep
emotion, she added
Nurse said
Leila said
On the young people getting up to take leave, a painful struggle took
place in Dash's upright mind, and for some moments he stood irresolute.
Between the dear young companion of his palmy days and the friend of
late misfortunes the line of duty was difficult to discern;-- but this
friend was no longer perishing with hunger and cold, she was now in the
land of plenty and almost smothered with blankets; so Dash wagged his
tail to Peggy and darted after Leila. It was not easy to say which was
most light of foot, as they bounded along -- Dash capering and frisking in
renewed health and spirits, and Leila as if she trod on air, so
impatient was she to tell all to her papa; but Mr. Howard was already in
possession of the joyful intelligence, as immediately on his return from
London, he had been informed by Charles of all that had taken place, and
of Nurse having been sent for, and they now met both on their way to
Peggy's cottage; but on hearing Leila's account, Mr. Howard thought it
better to delay his visit till the next morning, and retraced his steps
with the rest of the party.

As they entered the house, Leila lingered behind for a moment
she whispered, in an agitated voice
The bright colour which before had
animated her face had faded, she was pale and trembling; Charles was
alarmed
he exclaimed
she said quickly
She
passed him hastily, and entered the library. Mr. Howard looked up -- her
appearance alarmed him
he inquired
Leila threw herself into her papa's arms
The young people were all impatience next morning to visit Peggy Dobie's
cottage. They met Mr. Howard returning from it, who told them they would
find Peggy much recovered. He had found her up, sitting by the fire
reading her Bible, and full of gratitude and thanksgiving for the
blessings which surrounded her
she said as they entered, and she closed her Bible and laid
aside her spectacles
Leila answered
Matilda said
Leila said
and Leila took Peggy's withered hand in hers
Leila said eagerly
Leila and Matilda both exclaimed at once
Matilda exclaimed, rather
emphatically
Matilda said, eagerly
Leila exclaimed
Matilda said
more than one voice exclaimed
The tears were in Leila's eyes
she said
Peggy ceased speaking, and clasped her
hands together as if in prayer. There were tears in most eyes; even
Charles, who seemed to think it unmanly to give way, had to struggle
hard with his emotion
he said, as they returned home
A few days more, and solitude and silence seemed to have fallen on
Woodlands. The whole party had dispersed. Mrs. Roberts had come back
from paying a visit to her sister, and even the Stanleys had returned
home. Leila had felt the parting with so many kind friends a good deal,
and the holidays seemed to her now as but one bright day too quickly
past. But there were alleviations; Sherborne Park, the residence of Mr.
Herbert, was but an hour's ride from Woodlands; Leila could now manage
Selim with ease; Charles was still to be one week more at home, and on
the first Saturday after the breaking up of the party, he promised to be
early at Woodlands on his pony, to escort Mr. Howard and Leila to
Sherborne Park: besides this, her joy and thankfulness at having
recovered Peggy and her dear Dash, bid defiance to all approaches to any
depression of spirits. She was buoyant as ever, and each morning, on her
way to her Aunt Stanley's, she stopped for a few moments at Peggy's
cottage to say a few kind words to her, and bring joy and sunshine to
the old woman's heart.

Most of the neighbouring families had called at Woodlands; amongst
others, Mr. and Mrs. Mildmay, with their daughter Lydia. Leila liked
Lydia's appearance; she was a pretty looking girl, remarkably well
dressed, with a beautiful complexion, fine hair, and a very animated
expression of face; she praised every thing she saw, was delighted with
the pets, said they were happy creatures to have such a dear, pretty
little mistress, and kissed Leila twice at parting, and hoped they would
always be great friends. Leila was much gratified, and was tempted for
the first time to think Selina might be wrong, and too hasty in her
judgments. She was made very happy a few days after, by her Aunt Stanley
telling her she had obtained her papa's consent to her remaining to
dinner, as Mr. Mildmay, having county business with Mr. Stanley was,
with his wife and daughter, to dine with them that day.

It was a very agreeable day to Leila; she liked Lydia more and more. She
had now quite made up her mind to think Selina's character of her a
mistaken one. Lydia seemed full of heart and affection for all of them,
but apparently to prefer Selina to the others; always listening when
she spoke, and always declaring that she must know best, and in all
their little discussions coming over to her way of thinking. But Leila
would have been the first to retract the too favourable opinion she had
formed, had she been present at a conversation which took place in the
school-room before tea. Lydia and Matilda were alone together, they had
been talking of Leila
Lydia said
Matilda's colour mounted to her forehead
she said, in an offended tone of voice
Selina's warning came
forcibly into her mind at that moment; but she was sorry she had said so
much, for Lydia seemed extremely angry; looking very red, she said
She stopped, and with a changed expression of look and tone
she continued
and she sighed
heavily
and she drew Matilda towards her, and kissed her
cheek.

Matilda felt at this moment she would rather that she had not done so,
but still she was gratified and flattered that one generally allowed to
be so clever and accomplished as Lydia, and who was several years older
than herself, should make quite a friend of her, and even often
condescend to ask her advice. Had Matilda reflected further, she would
have been aware that though she did so, she seldom or ever followed it.
Lydia, in fact, always ended by taking her own way in every thing,
though apparently yielding to the judgment of others. She now, as if to
change the subject, observed
Matilda answered
and she drew off her nice kid glove, and displayed her
pretty little white hand, on which a beautiful ring sparkled which had
often been Matilda's admiration
she continued
She drew a chair towards her
and was mounting upon it.

Matilda held her back
she said
Lydia said
Then
changing her tone of raillery, she continued
Matilda exclaimed, and tears were in her eyes
Lydia's smile was that of triumph; but Matilda did not see it -- she was
now covering her eyes with her hands.

Lydia jumped up on the chair and took down the book; then gently
removing Matilda's hands, she said
Poor Matilda! all her sense of what was right, all her good resolutions,
vanished before Lydia's bland smile. Selina's repeated warnings, and yet
more, the texts of the morning, had been entirely forgotten
And the answer
Alas! had
she asked in sincerity to be shown His ways, to be guided in His paths?
had she not leant to her own understanding, and listened to the voice of
the tempter? how then could she expect that God would direct her ways
when God was not in all her thoughts? She turned over the pages of the
book for Lydia, she explained the sketches, and praised them
extravagantly, with a confused idea that she was atoning to Mrs. Roberts
in some degree by doing so, and she gave herself completely up to the
enjoyment of the moment
Lydia said, as she turned the last page
Matilda jumped up to assist her, and in her haste overturned an
ink-glass on the table, which she herself had neglected to put into the
inkstand again; a small portion of the ink fell on the beautiful binding
of the book; Matilda was horror-struck
she exclaimed, as she stood in
helpless distress gazing upon it.

But Lydia did not lose her presence of mind for a moment; tearing out a
sheet of blotting-paper from a book which lay before them, she quickly
soaked up the ink, then seizing a sponge which Selina had been using for
her drawing, she dipped it in a tumbler of water, and dexterously
effaced almost every trace of the stain. The book was bound in white
vellum, highly glazed, so that the ink had not sunk in, scarcely a trace
of it was discernible
Lydia said
She was
jumping up on the chair, but Matilda took the book from her hand and
looked at it earnestly for a moment
Matilda still retained the book in her hand, and rose as if about to
leave the room
Lydia impatiently asked
Matilda answered, timidly
Then changing her tone from that of
anger, she continued, mournfully
Matilda stood irresolute. She covered her face with her hands, the tears
trickled down between her fingers, but she softly repeated to herself
She removed her hands, she looked up, and in a firm voice she
said
and she left the room.

She found Selina and Leila with Mrs. Roberts; the expression of her face
instantly arrested their attention
they
both exclaimed
She put them back with her hand, and steadily advancing to the table
where Mrs. Roberts sat, she laid the book before her, and pointing to
where the stain had been, she said
She tried to say more, she could not,
she was weeping.

Mrs. Roberts looked much distressed
she said
Selina looked earnestly at her; then throwing her arms round her neck,
she whispered
Matilda made no answer; she kissed Selina fondly, then turning round,
she said
Matilda stood for some moments looking on the ground, her colour varying
at every moment
she
said
Mrs. Roberts was in the habit of reading out some interesting story to
them for an hour every day while they were employed in working for the
poor. Matilda used to call it her happy hour, and the tears again filled
her eyes at the thoughts of such a banishment. Mrs. Roberts saw it would
indeed be punishment enough. She assented, and taking Matilda in her
arms and kissing her, she said
When Matilda returned to the school-room a short time afterwards, to
invite Lydia to go to tea, her countenance was quite cheerful again.
Lydia looked at her attentively
she said
But Lydia seemed to understand the tone and manner in which those few
words were said, and hastened to efface the bad impression she had made
she said
she
twined her arms fondly round her waist, and they left the room together.

As Matilda finished reading the Bible that evening, she closed the book,
and sat for some minutes in deep thought
she asked herself
She knelt down and said
her prayers, and fervently she asked to be forgiven for her disobedience
and for having broken her promise. She asked also to have the love of
praise more taken out of her heart; to be meek and lowly like Him she
was taught to serve; and she got into bed more peaceful, almost happy,
and soon fell asleep.

Saturday came, and Charles was faithful to his appointment. It was a
bright morning, every thing looked gay in the sunshine, the ground
sparkled with a light frost; but Selim was the most sure-footed of
ponies. Leila rode between her papa and Charles -- how could she be
afraid? She was in high spirits, it was her first ride of any
considerable length; she was quite elated by the dignity of her
situation, and every now and then she touched Selim lightly with her
whip, and sprang on a few yards before the others, and then looked back
and laughed at their grave looks. By degrees she became more bold, more
anxious to show off before Charles, and to prove to him that she had
become quite an excellent horsewoman. She touched Selim less gently -- he
sprang forward, and from a brisk canter was soon at full gallop, Leila's
light figure seeming as if raised every moment into mid air.

The others held back; they knew the danger of following too closely
Mr. Howard repeatedly exclaimed. It was to
both a moment of extreme agitation, for a turn in the road now hid Leila
from their sight. But Leila, though much frightened at first, did not
lose her presence of mind. She allowed Selim to proceed for some time
without opposition, then gently checked him as Charles had instructed
her to do, the obedient animal first slackened his pace, and then stood
entirely still. Her papa and Charles came up, both looking much alarmed.
Charles did not speak, he was extremely pale. Leila looked at them both
and burst into tears
she said
Mr. Howard answered
They now proceeded without further interruption. Mina was watching for
them at the park gate, and ran by their side all up the approach, they
walking their horses that they might keep pace with her, and Leila
chatting to her as gaily as ever. Mrs. Herbert's reception of them was
all that was kind and affectionate, as she welcomed Leila to her second
home; and in rambling with Charles and Mina all over the grounds, the
day was passed in much enjoyment. The place was extensive and kept in
the most beautiful order. Leila, however, did not admire it quite so
much as Woodlands; but what interested her greatly was a small
picturesque-looking church which stood in the grounds and its adjoining
parsonage. With this scene she was delighted; and when Charles told her
the parsonage would probably one day be his future home, as he wished to
take holy orders, and the living was in his father's gift, she thought
she had never seen any thing so charming
she said
she
continued
he asked
he answered
he
continued
she inquired
When Leila was alone with her papa that evening, she immediately
recurred to what had taken place during the ride
she said
Leila threw her arms round her father's neck, and softly whispered
Matilda exclaimed, as she darted into
the school-room, (which Mrs. Roberts had just left,) and clasped Selina
round the neck so tightly as almost to choke her
Both assured her that they had
she continued
Leila answered quickly
Matilda said, reproachfully
Matilda inquired
A&rsqb;

 &lsqb;A&rsqb; A fact
Matilda exclaimed
Matilda said
Matilda said
It was a beautiful morning; Selina and Matilda had been allowed to
breakfast at Woodlands, and were to return to Elmgrove with Leila after
a visit to Peggy Dobie's cottage, for the old gardener had promised to
be there by ten o'clock with the bee-hive, and he was faithful to his
word, for, as they reached the cottage, they found Peggy opening the
little wicket-gate leading to the garden, to admit him and his precious
burden; the hive was safely placed in a sunny, sheltered corner, close
to the green turf seat which Leila had erected for Peggy, and to witness
her joy with the whole arrangement was delightful. She placed herself on
the turf seat, and with her hands clasped firmly together on her knees,
she kept gazing on the hive in a perfect ecstasy of delight
she exclaimed
Matilda observed
Peggy said, looking fondly at Leila
Leila said anxiously
The young people were in such fits of laughter that they could give
Peggy no assistance whatever in this mysterious calculation; and Peggy
herself joined heartily in the laugh, only remarking that they might see
now that sometimes she was no just sae clear as she used to be, but that
ony way it was a most pleasant party, and that there _was just four o'
them_.

They could have remained for ever talking with her, and, as Matilda
observed, had received most useful instruction in arithmetic, a far
better way of adding up than she had been taught; but there were other
lessons to be attended to, and most unwillingly they bid good-bye to
Peggy, and proceeded on their way home. Leila, however, observed that it
would be almost as near to return by the village; she wished, so much,
she said, to ask Dame Burton how Lizzy was going on, and it was so
pleasant to see the little things running to meet them; besides, she
added, as they had a half holiday, they would still be home in time -- so
to the village they went. By the time they reached Dame Burton's cottage
they had quite a little troop of rosy, laughing children following them,
quite eager to be talked to and noticed; but Lizzy was not among them,
nor did they see her with her mother on entering the house. Leila
inquired for her, and hoped she had been going on well. Dame Burton
shook her head
she said
Matilda eagerly inquired
They all felt this act to be of a most atrocious nature, but the picture
of the old woman tied up, as it were, in a flannel bag was too much, and
the difficulty of restraining their laughter was very great; Leila
struggled hard for composure
she said
Dame Burton answered, in a loud tone, as if she
wished to be overheard by some one
She threw open the door of the adjoining room, and there sat little
Lizzy, propped up on a high stool in the middle of the floor, her little
flannel petticoat tied round her neck, and her little face no longer
dimpled with its accustomed smiles, but swelled with weeping; her look
of shame and helpless distress, when she saw them enter, was too much;
Leila could not stand it, she covered her face with her hands.

Selina spoke aside for a few minutes to Dame Burton
they heard her say
was her answer. Selina, then turning round to where the
little culprit sat, undid the string of the little flannel petticoat,
took it off, wiped Lizzy's eyes gently with her pocket-handkerchief, and
lifting her down from the high stool, led her to her mother. The poor
child was weeping bitterly. She appeared most penitent, and as it seemed
better that she should at that moment be left alone with her mother, the
young people quitted the cottage.

In giving her old nurse an account of her day, which was Leila's general
custom, she mentioned what had taken place with regard to Lizzy, and
Amy, who was present, almost started off her chair with astonishment and
indignation
she said
Nurse answered
Leila said, in a deprecating tone of voice
Nurse drew up her little fat round figure in a dignified manner
Leila thought it would be difficult.

Nurse continued
Leila answered
Leila seated herself. After a few minutes' silence, she said, rather
doubtingly
Nurse repeated in a displeased tone
Leila answered
Nurse looked up with a startled expression
Leila burst into a fit of laughter
Nurse repeated, still more frightened
Leila struggled hard to regain her composure, for she saw her good old
nurse was really getting seriously alarmed
she said
Leila answered, smiling
Nurse looked very grave
Leila was silent for a moment, then jumping up from her seat, she held
the pocket up in the air in a triumphant manner, exclaiming
Nurse observed, as she looked up for a moment
from her work and followed Leila's light steps with affectionate
interest
Weeks and months glided on. Spring, with its soft, tender, green, and
many blossoms, was spreading life and gladness over the earth, and Leila
thought Woodlands a second Eden. The conservatory bloomed with plants of
the richest fragrance, and the balcony was gay with flowers of the
brightest hue; various beautiful creepers, with the sweet-scented
honeysuckle, forming arches over head; and Leila herself looked as fresh
and blooming as the flowers, and as joyful as the skylark, as it soared
with its glad song into the blue vault of Heaven. She was never weary of
admiring the beautiful scenery by which she was surrounded, for early
habit had made the beauties of nature to her as a continual feast.
Several of her birds were now in full song, and she spent many of her
spare minutes in the conservatory. The precious seeds had come up all
but one, and she had now three thriving plants of Clara's flower.
Charles had not returned at Easter to mark their progress -- he had gone
into a distant country to visit an uncle, a brother of Mr. Herbert's,
but by Midsummer he would surely visit home, and she hoped they would be
in full flower by that time, which would be for him a still greater
pleasure. Leila had, besides all this, other interests to occupy her.
She frequently visited the school with her Aunt Stanley and her cousins,
and assisted the younger girls in the preparation of their tasks, and
she paid frequent visits to Peggy Dobie's cottage, and to the village,
where she made herself acquainted with all the wishes and wants of its
various inmates. The Saturdays were generally spent by Selina and
Matilda at Woodlands, when, during part of the morning, they assisted
Leila in giving instruction to many of the village children in church
music, for though Selina's voice was not yet strong, her knowledge in
music made her a most useful assistant. They also now took daily walks
with Mrs. Roberts in the fields, and generally returned loaded with wild
flowers. Leila had become most successful in drying flowers so as to
preserve their bright colours. The field flowers, assisted by her papa,
she arranged in books in botanical order; but with the flowers from the
conservatory and the garden she often ornamented screens, producing a
wonderfully fine effect, superior to any painting, fixing them on with
gum, and grouping them together in a most beautiful manner. Matilda
often tried to imitate Leila in this, but she did not succeed, her
flowers always lost their bright tints, they grew white, or they grew
black, but they never grew beautiful; the stalks never would bend
gracefully, they would always stick straight up; the gum would always go
on in patches, never smoothly, and she complained that though she put on
a great deal of gum, some of the leaves would not stick at all, so she
generally ended by getting into a rage, and dashing her hair pencil all
over the paper
she said one morning, as
she stood admiring a couple of fine screens which Leila had just
finished for Mrs. Herbert
B&rsqb; A fact
Leila answered
Matilda observed
Leila coloured
she said
Matilda
inquired
Matilda said
Leila answered
Matilda observed
Matilda groaned
Matilda shrugged her shoulders
Leila smiled but shook her head
Matilda exclaimed
They found Mrs. Roberts and Alfred in the garden, Alfred flying at full
speed as if in pursuit of something
and he
held up a large dragon-fly between his fingers.

Matilda screamed
Matilda inquired, turning to Mrs. Roberts
Matilda said, eagerly
Mrs. Roberts observed
Alfred said
Mrs. Roberts gave a willing assent, and to the pond they all proceeded
Matilda said
Alfred looked a little disappointed, but yielded up the net, saying
only
She plunged it vigorously into the pond, the net
filled with mud, she could scarcely draw it out again; little Alfred
became very red, and was near getting into a passion, but a look from
Mrs. Roberts, as she pronounced his name, restrained him; he took the
net from Matilda, and having washed it out carefully, put it into
Leila's hands, saying
Leila did try, but she was not much more successful than Matilda, the
net still came up half filled with mud, for she plunged it down too
hastily; besides, the water had been much disturbed.

Matilda clapped her hands
she exclaimed.

Mrs. Roberts looked towards her; but a look, however impressive, was
seldom sufficient for Matilda
she continued
Leila coloured, but said nothing.

Matilda looked at her for a moment, then throwing her arms round her
neck, she said
Alfred obeyed, and having gone to the other side of the pond where the
water had not been disturbed, he dipped the net very gently in, and soon
brought up a large muddy-looking insect.

Mrs. Roberts looked at it attentively
she said
Matilda observed
Matilda said
Matilda said
Matilda exclaimed
Leila exclaimed, her whole
countenance beaming with intelligence.

Matilda, while Mrs. Roberts was giving them this account, had looked at
Leila once or twice with some anxiety; their eyes now met; Leila's sunny
smile quite reassured Matilda, and she whispered in her ear
Mrs. Roberts said
Mrs. Roberts took Alfred by the hand and turned towards the house, while
Leila and Matilda took their way to the flower beds; Matilda with most
sanguine anticipations of the money she was about to make
On the following Saturday, Nurse, having some commissions to execute in
Richmond, and the weather being uncommonly fine, Leila and her cousins
were allowed to accompany her. Matilda had for some days before been
pursuing most actively her new method of drying flowers, and had already
tied up and placed in all sorts of odd corners half the books in her
possession filled with them; and as they had all received that morning
their weekly allowance of pocket-money, she felt quite elated, not only
by the riches of which she was in actual possession, but by the
countless sums she now felt sure of acquiring.

In this dangerous state of mind poor Matilda was ill prepared for the
trial which awaited her, for some of Nurse's commissions were to be
executed in the very shop which had so often proved a scene of
temptation to her. She entered it with many good resolutions. Reels of
cotton were wanted by the whole party, and reels of cotton _only_
Matilda was determined to buy. Leila and Selina each selected a pretty
little box filled with them; but Matilda's eyes wandered all over the
counter. Alas! that so many bright little eyes should so often wander
over forbidden ground. A most tempting, and a much more beautiful box
than those selected stood open before Matilda; in addition to reels of
cotton it had also scissors and a thimble. It was not at all too large,
and it was not at all dear; indeed, she thought it most wonderfully
cheap, and she opened and shut it again several times in great
admiration.

Selina whispered
she said
Selina said, very gently
Matilda coloured. Only twopence. She seemed to hesitate, and pushed the
box a little way from her; but suddenly brightening up, and drawing it
towards her again, she said
She took it up as she spoke, and moved to another corner
of the shop.

The work-box was soon carefully wrapped up in paper and paid for, and
they all proceeded on their way. Having executed several other
commissions, Nurse proposed that they should rest for a little in a
baker's shop, where each might have a bunn, as the hour of luncheon
would have passed before they could return home. This they all thought
an excellent plan.

They were soon seated and enjoying their bunns, and Matilda had just
declared that she meant to be prudent now, and though she was very
hungry indeed, she would only allow herself one bunn, and would keep the
other penny in case of accidents, when a little girl, carrying a basket
tied over with a napkin, entered the shop. She looked very pale and
thin, and her clothes, though neither dirty nor ragged, were scanty and
much patched. As the baker was at the moment serving a customer, she
rested the basket on the ground as if much fatigued, and stood silently
waiting by the counter. A broken piece of roll lay upon it. She gathered
up a few stray crumbs, which she put in her mouth, and they saw her then
stretch out her thin little hand as if to take the roll also, but she
did _not_; on the contrary, she pushed it further from her and turned
away. The baker seemed to have perceived the action, for he said,
pushing it towards her
The child's eyes glistened, she seized the roll and began eagerly to eat
it; suddenly she stopped, and looked anxiously at what remained, and put
it in her pocket. By this time Leila's attention was much excited. The
child, pointing to the basket, spoke aside to the baker, who was now
disengaged, but in so low a tone she could not make out what she said.
The man shook his head as he replied, though also in a low tone, as if
unwilling to be overheard by them
The child spoke again, and with a look of much entreaty; Leila thought
she could distinguish the words, _loaf_ -- starving
the man said
and he put out his hand as if to take the basket.

The child shuddered violently, and snatching it hastily up, she
proceeded towards the door. She stopped, hesitated, and turning back,
she pushed the basket towards him, saying in an excited voice
She
turned from him, covered her face with her hands, and burst into tears.

The young people all rose, and in a moment were around her. Matilda
pushed aside the napkin which covered the basket, and there lay a
beautiful large cat, with its legs tied together in a most pitiable
manner
Leila exclaimed
The child made no answer; she was sobbing violently
Leila said, in her soothing, gentle voice
she gasped out
Leila looked at her with a distressed and agitated countenance
she said
They spoke together aside for a few minutes
Leila continued,
turning towards the little girl again
While this conversation was going on, Matilda had stood beside the
little girl, feeding her with what remained of her own bunn; stuffing
piece after piece into her mouth, and almost choking her
she said
and she threw it on the ground in uncontrolled
distress
Leila lifted the poor rejected penny from the ground, and whispered in
her ear
But Matilda was not to be comforted; she bought the bunn, and wrapped it
carefully up in paper; but as she got into the street, she entreated
Nurse to go back with her to the shop where she had purchased the
work-box. She wished, she said, to ask the man to take it again, and
give her back the money. Nurse thought it very doubtful that this would
be agreed to; but she yielded to Matilda's entreaties, and they went
back to the shop. The master was very civil; he said they never took
back goods that had been paid for, they were obliged to make a rule not
to do so; he seemed, however, in this instance, to be inclined to yield,
and Matilda's eyes sparkled with joy, when he took the work-box from her
hand, and undid the paper; but on seeing it he shook his head
he said
Nurse answered, (for poor Matilda was now unable to speak
and as he spoke, he
carefully wrapped the unfortunate box up in a fresh piece of paper,
and, with a low bow, put it into Matilda's hands.

Poor Matilda, she could scarcely articulate, as turning from the shop
she said
Leila whispered
The scene which presented itself on entering the house to which the
little girl conducted them, was certainly not calculated to lessen her
sorrow. All within the house bore the marks of extreme poverty. A pale,
emaciated woman was seated on a low stool, endeavouring to lull to sleep
a sickly-looking infant; a girl, apparently some years older than the
child who accompanied them, sat on the side of a miserable-looking bed,
(the only one the room contained,) knitting busily: her features were
pretty, but she kept her eyes cast down; and though she seemed to listen
eagerly to what was said, she took no further notice of their entrance.
The woman had risen, and was endeavouring to silence three clamorous
little urchins, who all ran towards the door when it opened, loudly
exclaiming
They shrank back on seeing the strangers.

Nurse gave a glance around the room; its contents were not numerous. A
small tea-kettle stood by the almost empty grate, in which a few sparks
of fire still lingered. She went out, taking the eldest of the little
boys with her, and soon returned with a supply of wood. A fire was
kindled, and in a wonderfully short space of time, (for Leila and her
cousins assisted,) a few cups and bowls were collected together, and the
children were all assembled round a small table, devouring bread and
butter as fast as it could be prepared for them, and anticipating the
delight of having warm tea. The eldest girl was also seated at the
table, but still kept her eyes cast down. The mother, observing the
inquiring glances which were cast towards her, explained that she was
blind; but she added
Leila inquired
The tears were running down poor Susan's face, as her mother gave this
recital. They all looked at her with much interest; suddenly their
attention was arrested by one of the little boys sliding down from his
stool, and exclaiming, as he ran round the table and took the hand of
each of them in succession
but as he approached Matilda, she pushed him from her
she said
and she
ran out of the room. Selina followed her.

In a few minutes they both returned, Matilda looking quite composed,
though sorrowful: she went up to the blind girl, and, in a low voice,
tried to enter into conversation with her; but it was the greatest
possible relief to Matilda, when, soon after, Nurse said it was time to
return home; assuring the poor woman, at the same time, she would speak
to her master about her, and she was sure he would give her some
assistance.

On entering the house, on their return, Matilda followed Leila to her
room
she said
and she pointed to a small table on which
the basket was placed
Leila coloured, and the tears came into her eyes as she said in a very
low voice
Matilda exclaimed
She tore the paper from
the work-box as she spoke, and looked at it steadily
she said
and she shook her head
Many weeks now passed on tranquilly and without any marked event. The
poor widow Barlow and her family had been frequently visited. Mr. Howard
had been liberal in rendering her assistance, and Leila and her cousins
had employed many of their leisure hours in working for the children,
who were now comfortably clothed, and the elder ones put to school.
Matilda had most cheerfully contributed her share, both in money and in
work, and Mrs. Roberts gave a favourable report of her general
improvement; her constant association with Selina and Leila was
certainly producing a favourable effect on her character, but she was
still easily misled by bad example, and often unprepared to meet the
hour of trial; present gratification was generally yielded to, and
though in most cases deep repentance followed, her feelings were as yet
stronger than her principles, and the many good resolutions made in the
hour of sorrow too often gave way before fresh temptation.

It was now nearly Midsummer; the precious seeds had not only sprung up
into three healthy plants, but each plant presented flower-buds of
promising appearance. The old gardener, however, would not hear of their
being transplanted into separate pots till the autumn, assuring Leila
that were he to do so sooner it would prevent the flower-buds from
opening, and in every way retard the growth of the plant. This was a
disappointment; but she consoled herself by having the flower-pot
removed into her own room and placed on a flower-stand before the
window, that she might watch the opening of the blossoms, having
resolved to gather the first-blown flower for Mrs. Herbert.

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley, with Selina and Matilda, were now passing a few
days at Woodlands, and Leila had obtained permission from her papa to
invite Lydia Mildmay to spend the following day with them, as it was
Matilda's birthday, and she knew it would give her pleasure.

A brilliant sun awoke the sisters at an early hour, yet they found that
Leila must have already visited them, for their pretty white bed was
strewed with fresh flowers. The dew of the morning was still upon them,
and Matilda thought no flowers before had ever smelt so sweet; she
sprang up to rush into Leila's room to thank her, when her steps were
arrested by seeing a little table placed by her bed-side, over which a
covering of embroidered muslin was thrown
she exclaimed, as she hastily lifted the
white drapery, which proved to be an embroidered apron, worked by Leila
for this happy occasion. On the table was placed a pretty little
writing-desk, a present from her papa and mamma, a case in
mother-of-pearl, with pens, pencil, sealing-wax, &amp;c., from her Uncle
Herbert, and a beautiful purse worked by Selina. Matilda was in
ecstasies; how she got dressed she never very well knew; she had no
distinct remembrance but of being half smothered with heat from being
closely wrapped up in a shawl and carried back to her room by Nurse, who
looked unutterable things. How she longed for twelve o'clock, the hour
at which her friend was to arrive; for to show all those beauties to
Lydia Mildmay would be such a renewal of her pleasure!

Twelve o'clock came at last; but Matilda was disappointed when Lydia saw
her pretty bed, (for Matilda had carefully preserved the flowers upon
it,) she only shrugged her shoulders, exclaiming
And though she said all that was civil when she saw the
presents, her admiration fell far short of what had been expected; and
all, that but the moment before had appeared so beautiful in Matilda's
eyes, fell considerably in her estimation, when Lydia, with an affected
air of indifference, observed
and she took from her
reticule a beautiful little _etui_ of the most finished workmanship. It
was a walnut-shell, bound and lined with gold, containing scissors,
bodkin, and thimble, with small tablets of mother-of-pearl, and a gold
pencil-case with an amethyst top. Matilda gazed in speechless
admiration. If Lydia's intention was to mortify her, she might have been
satisfied with the look with which Matilda now contemplated all that had
before given her so much pleasure; but after a little time she rallied
again, and whispering to Leila that if her presents were not quite so
beautiful, they were at least far more useful, she quite brightened up,
and proposed that they should go into the conservatory to visit the
parrots, and then into the garden.

The day seemed to pass very pleasantly to all; for though Lydia and
Matilda were always going off by themselves, the hours never seemed long
when Selina and Leila were together. Immediately after dinner the
carriage was sent for. Lydia, to convey her home, as there was a large
dinner party, and her mamma wished her to be present in the
drawing-room. Matilda seemed quite unhappy in parting with her; indeed,
having this intelligence communicated to her just as they were sitting
down to dinner seemed quite to overset her. She held her hand at
parting, and looked anxiously up in her face, then followed her a few
steps as she was leaving the room, and for some minutes they whispered
together. When Matilda returned, Leila observed that her eyes were full
of tears. She went up to her, and took her kindly by the hand, but
Matilda hastily pushed her away, and ran out of the room
Leila inquired
Selina shook her head
she said
Leila said
eagerly
She was interrupted by Matilda looking into the room, she drew
hastily back, but on Selina calling to her, she advanced a few steps,
hesitated, and looking anxiously in Leila's face for a moment, again
left the room. They both observed that her eyes were swoln with weeping,
and Selina, now seriously alarmed, said she must go into the
drawing-room, and find out if her mamma was aware if any thing was
wrong. She thought now she should speak to her mamma, and she would come
up into Leila's room and tell her what she had heard.

Selina had not been in the drawing-room many minutes when the door
opened, and Leila darted in, exclaiming
They all followed her into her room -- every thing seemed in perfect
order, and the flower-pot stood exactly where Leila had placed it; but
two of the plants seemed withered, and when Mrs. Stanley touched them
they fell from her hand on the carpet, they evidently had been broken
off and carefully stuck into the earth again
Mrs. Stanley exclaimed, and her eyes fell upon
Selina, who had become very pale
she said
Mrs. Stanley said
At that moment Amy entered the room, but seeing it occupied was
retreating again, when Mrs. Stanley called to her
she said
Her look of perfect truthfulness it was impossible to doubt.

When the flowers fell to the ground, Leila had hidden her face on her
papa's shoulder, and was struggling with her emotion; she now looked up,
and turning to Mrs. Stanley, she said
But Mrs. Stanley would not yield to this
she said
Amy was silent
Mrs. Stanley said
Amy answered in a
trembling voice
Mrs. Stanley inquired
Amy was again silent
Mrs. Stanley said
Amy left the room. Mr. Howard also rose and quitted the room just as
Matilda was entering it; she came in trembling excessively, and looking
very pale, but the moment Mrs. Stanley placed the flower-pot before her
and said
the deepest colour
suffused her face, and mounted to her temples. She remained silent
Mrs.
Stanley inquired
The words were scarcely audible.

Mrs. Stanley fixed her eyes upon her face
she said
Matilda's agitation increased; she tried to speak, but Mrs. Stanley with
difficulty could make out the words
Mrs. Stanley herself now became much agitated
she said
There was no answer.

Leila went up to her and whispered
Matilda was still silent, but the piteous look she cast on Leila was
heart-rending.

Mrs. Stanley again spoke
she said
Matilda left the room; Mrs. Stanley soon after followed. Selina and
Leila were left alone; Selina was silently weeping. Neither of them
spoke for several minutes. Leila then said
Selina shook her head
Leila looked much distressed as she answered
She had no sooner uttered the words than she coloured
The door of Matilda's room they saw was not entirely shut as they
passed
Selina said. She advanced a few steps
into the room; Matilda had thrown herself upon the bed. The flowers with
which it had been so lately decked now lay scattered on the floor.
Matilda evidently saw her, for she looked up for a moment, but she did
not speak, and they passed on to the garden.

The whole evening wore slowly away, and no message came from Matilda;
every time the drawing-room door opened, Selina and Leila were in
anxious expectation -- but still no message came. The young people went
early to bed: how brightly had the morning dawned upon them, and now all
was turned to sorrow. The first thing which struck Leila on entering her
room was the muslin apron which she had embroidered for Matilda folded
up and laid upon her bed; had she looked into her aunt's room, she would
have seen the writing-desk also returned, and placed upon the table.
Had Matilda done this? had she felt that she was unworthy of retaining
those gifts which had been given her as marks of love and affection?
Leila prayed earnestly for Matilda, but it was long before she could
compose herself to sleep; the piteous look which Matilda had cast upon
her haunted her imagination.

Meanwhile poor Selina was not less unhappy. On entering the bed-room,
she found Matilda seated at the table writing a letter. She looked much
fluttered when Selina entered, and hastily threw her pocket-handkerchief
over something on the table. Selina felt almost certain it was the
_etui_ which Matilda had admired so much. Matilda seemed unwilling to
begin to undress; after a short time she said, making a visible effort
to speak calmly
Selina began to undress. She then took her Bible to read as usual before
saying her prayers
she said, after a few minutes
There seemed a silent assent.

Selina read
Selina said
and she knelt down
by the side of her bed.

For some time after she had lain down, all was still in the room. Selina
had turned her face from her sister, that she might not seem to watch
her. After some time Matilda rose; she stood for a moment by the bed,
then put something very gently below the pillow; she started when Selina
said
but she knelt down, said her prayers,
and then got into bed
Selina said
Matilda pressed her hand
Matilda seemed more composed; Selina felt comfort, she knew not why.
After a considerable time Selina did sleep. She was awakened early by
the bright morning sun, but when she opened her eyes she saw Matilda was
not there. She called to her, there was no answer. Much alarmed, she
sprang out of bed and flew to the window. She saw Matilda fully dressed,
standing below a tree speaking to the gardener's boy; she put a small
packet into his hand, and pointed across the lawn in the direction of
Mr. Mildmay's. The packet was larger than a letter, Selina felt sure it
was the _etui_. She retreated from the window, and when Matilda
returned, took no notice of what she had seen. At the breakfast-table
there was no Matilda with her smiling face. All the morning she
continued in her room, seated by the window; she had her work in her
hand, but was generally looking out along the approach as if she
expected some one. About the middle of the day a servant in livery was
seen approaching; he held a letter in his hand; as he stopped below her
window, she strained her eyes to catch the address, but could not. Poor
Matilda! how her heart beat, and how her colour went and came; but no
one entered her room -- the letter then could not have been for her. She
called to Amy, who said she believed the servant had brought a letter
for Mrs. Stanley. At that moment Selina came running in
she
said
Selina looked earnestly at Matilda, but her expression she could not
make out; she had brightened up considerably at first, but now there
was only agitation visible, and she made no effort to assist in looking
for the lost glove. It was not to be found in Matilda's room; the
drawing-room and dining-room had already been searched. They now
proceeded to Leila's apartment. Here they were equally unsuccessful:
under the bed, under every chair, they searched in vain. Suddenly it
struck Selina that it was at dinner, while Lydia was still there, that
her mamma had observed that Matilda's nails were black. There was a
small window in one corner of Leila's room which looked out upon the
court; she threw open this window and gazed eagerly out; she saw
something lying which might be a glove. Amy ran down into the court, and
returned with the glove in her hand. The ring was sticking in one of the
fingers, but the pale kid glove was much stained with earth, and could
not have been used again. A new light seemed to dawn on Mrs. Stanley
she said
Then turning to Selina, she whispered
The hour of Mrs. Stanley's absence was an anxious hour to all. Selina
and Leila were both with Matilda when the carriage was seen returning;
when it stopped before the door Matilda seemed scarcely able to breathe.
Mrs. Stanley entered and took her in her arms
she
said
Then turning to
Leila and Selina, she continued
Matilda threw herself again into her mamma's arms, but she could not
speak. She then slowly left the room
she said, when soon after she was alone with her sister
The tears were running down Selina's cheeks
she continued
From this time the improvement in Matilda's character was much more
steady; her warm affection for her sister and Leila daily increased, and
she seemed now to have no wish beyond the enjoyment of their society.
They were a most happy little trio; but days of trial were at hand, and
sorrow about to visit their young hearts in an unexpected form. Charles
was now at home for the Midsummer holidays, and had come over to pass
the Saturday at Woodlands; he certainly was somewhat taller than before,
but Leila seemed rather to think it an improvement, and she met him with
all the frank gladness of her happy age. There was so little of the
rough school-boy in Charles, and so much of the gentle kind friend, that
Leila had learnt to look up to him with a feeling of happy security; he
never flattered her in asking advice; she was always sure of hearing the
truth from him unbiassed by any previous opinion expressed on her side.
She told him that an accident had happened to the precious plant
intended for him; but she entered into no details, and he promised to be
patient, and to await the coming up of the other seeds. They had not
been long together when he inquired for his friend Peggy Dobie, and
Leila proposed that they should cross the lawn together and visit her at
her cottage; they were sure of finding her in her garden, she said, for
Peggy had told her that her bees were about to swarm, and that she must
watch them closely.

Never had Leila looked more joyous than when she tied on her bonnet to
accompany Charles; her cheeks were glowing with health, her eyes bright
with intelligence, and the feelings of hopeful, trusting, happy youth
were visible in every expression of her sweet countenance.

It had been the loveliest of summer mornings, and at first so elastic
was Leila's step, that she seemed to tread on air; she proposed to
lengthen their walk by first mounting one of the high fields from which
the view was particularly fine; but by the time they had gained the
height, they felt the heat of the sun overcoming, and in descending were
glad to avail themselves of the shelter of the wood. The bright
sunshine, however, which they had wished to avoid, now suddenly gave way
to dark lurid clouds; the air became very close and oppressive; there
was a dull moaning sound amongst the trees, as if the wind were about to
rise, and as they entered the wood the sweet singing of the birds was
hushed; they were darting rapidly to and fro amongst the branches in
constant uneasy motion, as if danger were at hand. Charles looked
anxiously at the great masses of fiery-looking clouds which were now
driven along by a strong current of upper air. Leila caught the anxious
expression of his face
she said
she repeated
They hastened on, but Leila suddenly paused for a moment to listen to
the sound of distant thunder
she said, in a tone
of alarm
then quickening her steps, she proceeded
more rapidly than before. A second and louder peal succeeded to the
first; again and again it lightened, and the thunder seemed every moment
to be approaching nearer. Leila trembled all over, and clung to Charles
in speechless terror
Charles hastily exclaimed
and seizing her arm he hurried her forward.

At that moment the whole wood seemed lighted up as if on fire; the
lightning ran along the ground, a great branch from a tree fell with a
loud crash at their feet, and Leila screamed
O that moment of inexpressible agony, as he stooped and gazed into her
dear face! It was unscathed, but the eyes were shut
Alas! it was too true. She tried in vain to raise her eyelids
she almost shrieked out, as she sank
upon the ground at Charles's feet. He lifted her gently in his arms, her
head fell upon his shoulder; she became still, he thought she had
fainted, but soon he heard her whisper
Charles continued to carry her in his arms, but his knees trembled so
much he could scarcely get along, and Leila felt a tear drop upon her
cheek
she said
Then after a little she said again
She was obeyed. He stole up stairs unperceived by any one, and Leila
knelt down by the side of her bed and prayed earnestly
she said, as she arose from her knees
she exclaimed, as she tried to grasp the empty air.

Charles had been watching at the door; he too had offered up a silent
earnest prayer; he was now by her side in a moment, and led her to her
papa's room. She tapped at his door
Mr. Howard said, in a glad voice, but
without raising his eyes from his book
Mr. Howard rose
he said, as he stood with his hand upon the lock
The sound of her voice startled him, and Mr. Howard opened the door in
the greatest alarm. Leila fell into his arms
she said, as she clung to him and repeatedly kissed his cheek
Mr. Howard groaned aloud; he clasped Leila more closely in his arms -- he
looked upon her face -- he could not speak.

Charles, in a trembling voice, related all that had taken place.

Mr. Howard rallied, and seemed to regain his usual firmness; he turned
to Charles
he said
The poor woman and Amy were already in the room, both sobbing bitterly;
but upon Mr. Howard speaking aside to Nurse, and telling her of the
necessity there was for self-command for Leila's sake, she made a
wonderful effort for composure, and seating herself on the couch, she
took Leila in her arms, and laid her head gently upon her shoulder, as
she used to do when she was a little child. Amy stood by her side, her
hands clasped together, and with an expression of the deepest woe, while
tears still ran silently down her cheeks.

Leila was now quite composed. They heard her whisper
and she pressed Nurse's hand repeatedly, and
said she felt better, then drawing Amy towards her, she whispered very
low in her ear
Charles had himself gone off to Richmond on Leila's pony, but returned
unsuccessful; both Dr. B.---- and another to whom he applied were from
home. The agony of suspense to all was very great; and though Charles
strove hard to restrain his emotion, the tones of his voice betrayed his
feelings to Leila every time he tried to address her.

Mr. Howard spoke to him aside -- he thought it better he should return
home. It was a great trial to him, but he instantly obeyed, and stole
out of the room without even a word of adieu, he felt that all
additional agitation must be carefully avoided.

As he went out Leila raised her head and listened
she said
Mr. Howard explained that he had returned home, he thought it better he
should do so
She did try, but soon she started up again, and clasped her papa's hand
more tightly
she said
she stopped and shuddered
Mr. Howard seated himself at the table and began to write, and before he
had finished his note Leila was asleep -- it seemed a troubled sleep, she
started often, and called out repeatedly, as if in extreme terror, for
the shock on her nervous system had been severe; but before she awoke to
perfect consciousness again, her uncle, aunt, and all of them, stood
gazing upon her. They all struggled hard to control their sorrow, but it
was Matilda's and Alfred's sobs that awakened Leila. I will not further
distress my young readers by dwelling on this scene. Leila herself was
the first to obtain composure, and after some time she was able to
converse calmly with Selina.

She showed so much unwillingness to part with them again, that Mr.
Howard arranged that they should all come over for some weeks to
Woodlands, Leila having promised that she would be satisfied with
exactly as much of the society of her cousins as was thought good for
her; but the knowledge that they were in the house, she said, would be
the greatest comfort to her; and it was further arranged that Selina was
not to go home that evening, but remain till the others joined her.

This mournful day wore heavily on, and still Dr. B ---- had not arrived.
It were difficult to say what they all expected would be the result of
his anxiously expected visit; but when at last the sound of horses'
hoofs was heard upon the gravel, the agitation of the whole party was
extreme. Mr. Howard became very pale, and withdrew his hand from Leila's
that she might not be aware how he trembled; but she had heard the
sound, and seemed aware of his motive, for she said
Dr. B ---- entered; the look he cast on all around was full of deep
sympathy, for Charles's note had made him aware of what had happened.
His eyes rested mournfully on Leila, who lay on the sofa looking pale
and agitated; but as he approached, she hastily brushed a tear from her
long, dark eyelashes, and the brightest colour dyed her cheeks. He
paused in evident emotion; then seating himself by her, he looked at
her attentively, took the hand Mr. Howard had been holding, and felt her
pulse; her hand was deadly cold; again all colour had now left her
cheek, and she lay like a bruised lily, shrinking from his touch
he said gently
As he spoke, he turned her face more fully to the light.
Mr. Howard was bending over her. Dr. B ---- gently raised one of her
eyelids, and Leila, in a voice of rapture, exclaimed
Who can express Mr. Howard's feelings at that moment
the
kind-hearted physician exclaimed
and on examining the other, the result was
equally satisfactory
he said; but
he whispered something to Mr. Howard, and seemed about to quit the room.
He had asked to speak to him alone.

Leila had not caught the words, but she suspected something; and
springing up she said
Mr. Howard assented. The good doctor was much affected
he said
It was no unnecessary caution, for the lively joy expressed by Matilda
and Alfred when Dr. B ---- pronounced his opinion, Leila felt more
difficult to bear than their former sorrow; and Mr. Howard now expressed
a wish, which was immediately complied with, that Leila should be left
alone with him for the rest of the evening.

Before night the oculist from London also arrived. He confirmed all that
the physician had said; he could pronounce nothing positive as to
Leila's recovering her sight, but he had hope; and he enforced still
more strictly, if possible, that every thing should be done to
strengthen her general health, and agitation and excitement of every
kind carefully avoided
he said
This was spoken aside to Mr. Howard, but Leila caught the
words
she said
Mr. Howard thought she ought to be gratified; he knew better than the
oculist the command which Leila could maintain over herself: he spoke to
Peggy himself -- she came in, knelt down by Leila's bed, took her hand,
and with a voice which trembled with emotion, she said
Her voice sank to a whisper; she seemed unable to add
another word; but Leila seemed calmed and comforted. Poor Peggy left the
room, but she lingered till a late hour in the house, and was back again
in the first dawn of the morning.

The sad news had spread rapidly through the village: Leila was so
beloved by old and young, that the inquiries during the whole day had
been numerous. The children of the village, as well as her little
scholars, came in troops, and Amy had many a sorrowful scene to go
through with them. Nurse sat by Leila's side during the whole night, and
Mr. Howard visited her every hour. Her sleep was very broken, and next
day she was so feverish that no one but her papa and Nurse were allowed
to see her -- not even Selina; but by another day, the feverish symptoms
entirely left her; she felt weak and easily fluttered, but was generally
quite calm, and at times even cheerful. For some days Matilda, though in
the house, was only allowed to come into the room at short intervals.
Matilda had not sufficient control over her feelings, and the warm
expression of an affection, which was now greater than ever, was too
much for poor Leila. She was desired to be as much as possible in the
open air, and she was carried out every day into the garden, and sat for
hours in the shade, taking a little turn now and then, leaning upon her
papa. The first time she went out was a great trial to her, and for some
time she wept silently; then taking her papa's hand as they sat together
under a tree in the garden, she said
More than a fortnight had passed away, and Leila's general health was
greatly strengthened, though she had had many agitating scenes to go
through. The meeting with Mr. and Mrs. Herbert and Mina had at first
affected her much, but she had now great pleasure in their society, and
they came frequently, and spent the whole day, for Leila clung more to
Mrs. Herbert than ever. It was a great pleasure to her to lie on the
sofa with her knitting, and to listen to general conversation; and Mr.
Howard was most desirous in every way to promote her cheerfulness.
Charles's visits had been almost daily; though he had been permitted to
see Leila only for a few minutes at a time. He was now, however,
frequently allowed to lead her on Selim for a short ride, and Leila
assured her papa that each time she felt her courage increase so much,
that she was sure before long she should be able to ride out with him as
usual
she said
and she held out her hand.

Mr. Howard pressed it fondly
was all he
could say
She rose to search for it in its accustomed corner: Mr. Howard had had
it removed, but he placed it in her hands again, and she seated herself
by his side, and began to sing one of his most favourite airs. At first
her voice was weak and tremulous; but gradually it acquired more
firmness, though there was so much of unusual melancholy in its rich and
liquid tones, that filled Mr. Howard's eyes with tears. She evidently
found it a great effort to continue, and her next choice was a more
lively air
she said, as the second song was ended
Alas! dear child, she could not see that her second attempt had only
increased Mr. Howard's agitation; but hastily brushing his hand across
his eyes, he said, in a steady and even cheerful voice
Leila answered
She
was gone, or a long and deep-drawn sigh would have reached her ear.

Weeks and months passed on, and though Leila had no fixed complaint, her
health was not what it had been before, and the prospect of her
recovering her sight seemed gradually to be becoming more uncertain. It
was well for her, dear child, that she could not see the mournful looks
with which her papa often now regarded her, as she, with increased
anxiety to acquire habits of independence, performed her daily duties.

It was evident that Leila was preparing her mind to meet, not only with
resignation, but with cheerfulness, what but a few short months before
would have weighed her to the ground. How deeply had she felt poor
Susan's state; how often had she looked at the sightless eyes of the
blind girl, and said to herself
And this trial was now hers; it came upon her in a moment.
Suddenly was the whole face of nature shut out from her sight; yet,
after the first natural anguish was over, there came also to her young
heart that faith, that reliance, which shed peace and light on her
darkest moments.

Her little scholars now came to her as usual; they daily read the Bible
to her, and also other books suited to their age, and in this occupation
she took much interest. Susan also came frequently, and either Selina or
Matilda read to her while Leila listened
she said one morning to Selina, as Susan
left the room
Matilda inquired
Selina sighed deeply, but did not answer
Matilda inquired
Matilda said
Selina looked up
Leila hastily answered
She
threw her arms round her and kissed her fondly
Her soft soothing voice
was silent; she gently disengaged herself from Matilda, and left the
room.

And it was really so; Leila had struggled hard with herself, and had all
but conquered. She now strongly felt that entire dependence on her
heavenly Father's love which she had so fervently prayed for; the idea
that she was to be for ever blind had taken strong possession of her,
and she was resigned. Yet one earthly wish was still unsubdued: it was
to gaze once more upon her father's face
she said to herself
But how was this to be accomplished? She felt she could never tell her
father that she wished to see him for the last time; she could never
give him that bitter pang. And there were other difficulties. She could
see him only when looking down upon him; how was this to be managed? She
thought of it constantly; no way presented itself. Yet time pressed, for
she felt as if every day her eyelids were getting more stiff and
depressed; in fact, the struggle in her mind was affecting her general
health. Circumstances, however, favoured her unexpectedly. Mr. Howard
had spent a whole forenoon in London; Leila had for hours expected him,
and he returned fatigued and dispirited. He had been to arrange a
consultation for the following day with regard to Leila's health, which
was now daily giving him much uneasiness. Leila immediately became aware
that he was out of spirits
she said
She passed her
little hand below her papa's head, and raised it gently
She passed her hand across Mr. Howard's eyes
They were indeed open, they were earnestly fixed upon the pale
countenance of his child. Softly drawing down his eyelids, she drew a
chair close to the sofa, and striking a few chords, she began to sing in
a sweet low voice, and after a little while Mr. Howard dropped asleep.
Leila was immediately aware of this; she continued singing for a few
minutes, as she watched his regular breathing; by degrees her voice sunk
to the lowest whisper, then altogether ceased. For a moment she bent
over him and listened
she said; and mounting upon
the chair on which she had been seated, she gently raised her eyelids,
and stood gazing down upon him.

Was she looking upon that much loved face for the last time? She felt as
if it were so
she said
A deep sigh awoke Mr. Howard; he opened his eyes. Was it a deep spirit
from a world unseen, who stood gazing upon him with a look of more than
earthly love, or was it indeed his child? He started up, and Leila threw
herself into his arms
she said
then gradually becoming more calm,
she entered fully on the subject, and poured out all that had been so
long struggling in her heart
Mr. Howard did not attempt to conceal from Leila that of late he too had
felt less sanguine as to her recovering her eyesight, but still he said
that he felt it a duty to employ every human means; and he informed her
of the meeting he had appointed for next day. She struggled to conceal
her emotion from him; but it was evident that this intelligence made the
effort still more difficult.

The consultation took place as had been appointed, and the result was
more favourable than either Mr. Howard or Leila had dared to hope. The
physicians by no means despaired of Leila recovering the power of
raising her eyelids. They thought that the weakened state of her general
health, and the excitement of her too sensitive mind in the continual
effort she had made to conceal her feelings, had probably hitherto
retarded her recovery. They recommended her instantly being removed to
Brighton, with only her papa and Selina, and that sea-baths and
galvanism should be tried. Poor Matilda! what a trial was this
separation to her. How often did she resolve to bear it heroically, and
how often did her good resolutions give way to tears and lamentations!
In vain Selina reminded her that she had resolved to bear her trials
well
she answered
Yet even in her most sorrowful moments Matilda kept constantly saying
she felt sure Leila would get quite well. She had always thought so, and
now she saw those excellent wise physicians thought so too, and Leila
would return to them seeing as well as she ever had done
Matilda's bright anticipations were realized. We pass over many weary
weeks and months, for Leila's recovery was tedious, and there were many
fluctuations, but she did recover; and towards the end of April she
returned to Woodlands in all the joy of restored sight, and once more
did she lift her eyes to the rising sun stealing over the glad earth
with steps of light, awakening all nature with the spirit of gladness
and of life! How more than ever beautiful was the soft fresh green of
spring to her delighted eyes! One universal garden seemed to bloom
beneath her feet; one universal hymn of praise was in the song of the
bird, in the murmur of the stream, and, above all, in her own grateful,
devoted heart. And what was Matilda's joy, what was the joy of Charles
and Mina, and of all those many friends of high and low degree who loved
her dearly? for all were there to welcome her return. Peggy Dobie
pressing forward amongst the first to bless her dear, dear bairn, with
a glow upon her cheeks which made her look young again.

Matilda, capering around her at one moment, in the next holding her in
her arms, looking into her eyes with tearful joy, and exclaiming
And Charles, what did he say? _Nothing._ He stood gazing into Leila's
eyes as if he could have looked into them for ever, then raising her
hand, he pressed it to his lips
she said
The happiness of this happy day seemed every hour to increase. In the
evening they all walked to the village, and what did Leila see just
before entering it? A pretty cottage in a lovely little garden, blooming
with flowers, roses and honeysuckles trained on its white walls, a green
turf seat by the side of its little porch, and a bee-hive in a sheltered
corner. And this was Mr. Howard's glad surprise for Leila; this was a
cottage he had directed should be built during their absence for
Susan's mother, and in two days, on the first of May, she was to take
possession of it.

There were others who looked forward to May-day with eager expectation;
for an old custom was to be revived, a youthful queen was to be chosen.
Leila herself, though at a distance, had for some time been all anxiety
on this subject, revolving in her mind the different merits of her
little scholars, and scarcely knowing which most to wish should obtain
the promised honour. And she had returned to witness this; returned able
to _see_ and to enjoy it all. What happiness, what deep gratitude was
hers!

Next day all was joyful bustle and activity. The village children were
up with the sun, and while the dew still lay upon the grass, the crystal
drops sparkled on every tree and shrub, their merry voices mingled with
the song of the skylark, and, like the bee, they were darting from
flower to flower, wandering far and wide amidst banks of primroses,
lilies of the valley, and dark blue harebells. Long did they pursue
their pleasant toil, and in the evening they returned to it again, and
not till twilight shades had fallen on the lovely valley, and the silver
moon had risen to guide them on their way, were they to be seen trooping
homewards, laden with green boughs and heaps of blooming flowers. It
was but a short repose that lulled any of them to forgetfulness that
night; they were up by the first streak of day to weave the garlands for
their youthful queen, and the morning rose fair and bright upon their
pleasant labours. Matilda for some time past had been giving them
instructions in the art of weaving garlands, and many of them did great
credit to their little mistress. She had a few days before constructed
for them a crown which they were to imitate, and so well did they now
succeed, that it seemed an equal grief to old and young that any thing
so beautiful should ever fade.

Selina had returned to her own home; but it had been arranged that
Matilda and she were to be early at Woodlands on May morning, to
accompany Leila to the village, that they might all be there when the
queen was chosen. Leila's own repose was also somewhat broken on the eve
of this eventful day, and having risen early, dressed herself and
offered up her prayer and grateful praise, she seated herself at the
open window to watch for the expected summons. The morning breeze blew
softly on her blooming cheek, her whole heart was full of sweet
emotions; again there was joy to her in every rural sight and sound.
Often she listened eagerly, and fancied she could hear the joyful hum
of many voices from the distant village. Again she listened; was it the
sound of distant music she heard? It went, and came again, and she could
now hear distinctly a chorus of youthful voices rising on the passing
breeze, and could distinguish at intervals, wending their way through
the wood, a group of the village children, dressed in white, carrying
garlands and green boughs. As they emerged into the open lawn, the group
divided, and she saw, surrounded by this youthful band, her beautiful
Selim, led by Charles, and followed by Mina, Selina, and Matilda. Selim
was decked with flowers, and on the pretty saddle-cloth was placed the
crown. They all advanced, still singing; and, in breathless surprise,
Leila listened to the following words
Yes, with the universal assent of all their loving hearts, Leila was
chosen queen of the May! Wreathed with garlands, she was soon seated on
her beautiful favourite, and the procession wound its way, the children
singing and scattering flowers, to the village green; there, all unknown
to her, her papa, and all the elders of the party were assembled, and
under the Maypole was placed the throne, where, amidst all she loved,
and cheers from old and young, was Leila crowned and proclaimed Queen of
the May
was Peggy Dobie's observation.

                               THE END
</text>
