<text>
It was in the month of October, 18 ---, that the _Pacific_, a large ship,
was running before a heavy gale of wind in the middle of the vast
Atlantic Ocean.  She had but little sail, for the wind was so strong,
that the canvas would have been split into pieces by the furious blasts
before which she was driven through the waves, which were very high, and
following her almost as fast as she darted through their boiling waters;
sometimes heaving up her stern and sinking her bows down so deep into
the hollow of the sea, that it appeared as if she would have dived down
underneath the waves; but she was a fine vessel, and the captain was a
good seaman, who did what he considered best for the safety of his
vessel, and then put his trust in that Providence who is ever watchful
over us.

The captain stood before the wheel, watching the men who were steering
the ship; for when you are running before a heavy gale, it requires
great attention to the helm: and as he looked around him and up at the
heavens, he sang in a low voice the words of a sea song
And so it was with them;-- they were in the middle of the Atlantic, not
another vessel to be seen, and the heavens were covered with black
clouds, which were borne along furiously by the gale; the sea ran
mountains high, and broke into large white foaming crests, while the
fierce wind howled through the rigging of the vessel.

Besides the captain of the ship and the two men at the wheel, there were
two other personages on deck: one was a young lad about twelve years
old, and the other a weather-beaten old seaman, whose grisly locks were
streaming in the wind, as he paced aft and looked over the taffrail of
the vessel.

The young lad, observing a heavy sea coming up to the stern of the
vessel, caught hold of the old man's arm, crying out
replied the lad
The birds which William referred to were the stormy petrels
replied the old man
Having seen William safe to the cabin door, the old seaman returned to
the deck, for it was his watch.

Masterman Ready, for such was his name, had been more than fifty years
at sea, having been bound apprentice to a collier which sailed from
South Shields, when he was only ten years old.  His face was browned
from long exposure, and there were deep furrows on his cheeks, but he
was still a hale and active man.  He had served many years on board of a
man-of-war, and had been in every climate: he had many strange stories
to tell, and he might be believed even when his stories were strange,
for he would not tell an untruth.  He could navigate a vessel, and, of
course, he could read and write.  The name of Ready was very well suited
to him, for he was seldom at a loss; and in cases of difficulty and
danger, the captain would not hesitate to ask his opinion, and
frequently take his advice.  He was second mate of the vessel.

The _Pacific_ was, as we have observed, a very fine ship, and well able
to contend with the most violent storm.  She was of more than four
hundred tons burthen, and was then making a passage out to New South
Wales, with a valuable cargo of English hardware, cutlery, and other
manufactures.  The captain was a good navigator and seaman, and moreover
a good man, of a cheerful, happy disposition, always making the best of
everything, and when accidents did happen, always more inclined to laugh
than to look grave.  His name was Osborn.  The first mate, whose name
was Mackintosh, was a Scotsman, rough and ill-tempered, but paying
strict attention to his duty -- a man that Captain Osborn could trust, but
whom he did not like.

Ready we have already spoken of, and it will not be necessary to say
anything about the seamen on board, except that there were thirteen of
them, hardly a sufficient number to man so large a vessel; but just as
they were about to sail, five of the seamen, who did not like the
treatment they had received from Mackintosh, the first mate, had left
the ship, and Captain Osborn did not choose to wait until he could
obtain others in their stead.  This proved unfortunate, as the events
which we shall hereafter relate will show
Master William, whom we have introduced to the reader, was the eldest
boy of a family who were passengers on board, consisting of the father,
mother, and four children: his father was a Mr Seagrave, a very
well-informed, clever man, who having for many years held an office
under government at Sydney, the capital of New South Wales, was now
returning from a leave of absence of three years.  He had purchased from
the government several thousand acres of land; it had since risen very
much in value, and the sheep and cattle which he had put on it were
proving a source of great profit.  His property had been well managed by
the person who had charge of it during his absence in England, and he
was now taking out with him a variety of articles of every description
for its improvement, and for his own use, such as furniture for his
house, implements of agriculture, seeds, plants, cattle, and many other
things too numerous to mention.

Mrs Seagrave was an amiable woman, but not in very strong health.  The
family consisted of William, who was the eldest, a clever, steady boy,
but, at the same time, full of mirth and humour; Thomas, who was six
years old, a very thoughtless but good-tempered boy, full of mischief,
and always in a scrape; Caroline, a little girl of seven years; and
Albert, a fine strong little fellow, who was not one year old: he was
under the charge of a black girl, who had come from the Cape of Good
Hope to Sydney, and had followed Mrs Seagrave to England.  We have now
mentioned all the people on board of the Pacific: perhaps we ought not
to forget two shepherd's dogs, belonging to Mr Seagrave, and a little
terrier, which was a great favourite of Captain Osborn, to whom she
belonged.

It was not until the fourth day from its commencement that the gale
abated, and then it gradually subsided until it was nearly a calm.  The
men who had been watching night after night during the gale now brought
all their clothes which had been drenched by the rain and spray, and
hung them up in the rigging to dry: the sails, also, which had been
furled, and had been saturated by the wet, were now loosened and spread
out that they might not be mildewed.  The wind blew mild and soft, the
sea had gone down, and the ship was running through the water at the
speed of about four miles an hour.  Mrs Seagrave, wrapped up in a
cloak, was seated upon one of the arm-chests near the stern of the ship,
her husband and children were all with her enjoying the fine weather,
when Captain Osborn, who had been taking an observation of the sun with
his sextant, came up to them
replied Tommy
observed Mrs
Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Captain Osborn
said Juno, smiling
replied Captain Osborn, laughing
said Mackintosh, the first mate, to
the captain
said William
said Ready, who was standing by them with his quadrant in
his hand
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
replied William
said Ready
said Mr Seagrave
said Mrs Seagrave
said Ready, putting his quadrant on the capstan
said Juno
As soon as they were all down in the cabin, the captain and Mr Seagrave
marked the position of the vessel on the chart, and found that they were
one hundred and thirty miles from the Cape of Good Hope
said Mr Seagrave to his
wife
Poor Juno shook her head, and a tear or two stole down her dark cheek.
With a mournful face she told them, that her father and mother belonged
to a Dutch boer, who had gone with them many miles into the interior:
she had been parted from them when quite a little child, and had been
left at Cape Town
The next morning the _Pacific_ arrived at the Cape and anchored in Table
Bay
said William
said William
said Captain Osborn to Mr
Seagrave
said her husband, who went down
the ladder, followed by William.

Upon the question being put to Mrs Seagrave, she replied that she was
quite satisfied with the ship having no motion, and did not feel herself
equal to going on shore; it was therefore decided that she should remain
on board with the two younger children, and that, on the following day,
Mr Seagrave should take William and Tommy to see Cape Town, and return
on board before night.

The next morning, Captain Osborn lowered down one of the large boats,
and Mr Seagrave, accompanied by Captain Osborn, went on shore with
William and Tommy.  Tommy had promised his mamma to be very good; but
that he always did, and almost always forgot his promise directly he was
out of sight.  As soon as they landed, they went up to a gentleman's
house, with whom Captain Osborn was acquainted.  They stayed for a few
minutes to drink a glass of lemonade, for it was very warm; and then it
was proposed that they should go to the Company's Gardens and see the
wild beasts which were confined there, at which William was much
delighted, and Tommy clapped his hands with joy
inquired William
said Tommy
said
Captain Osborn
said Tommy.

As soon as they entered the gates, Tommy escaped from Captain Osborn,
and ran away in his hurry to see the lions; but Captain Osborn caught
him again, and held him fast by the hand
said the gentleman who
accompanied them
inquired William
replied Mr Seagrave
They continued their walk until they came to the den of the lions.  It
was a large place, in closed with a strong and high wall of stone, with
only one window to it for the visitors to look at them, as it was open
above.  This window was wide, and with strong iron bars running from the
top to the bottom; but the width between the bars was such that a lion
could put his paw out with ease; and they were therefore cautioned not
to go too near.  It was a fine sight to see eight or ten of these
noble-looking animals lying down in various attitudes, quite indifferent
apparently to the people outside -- basking in the sun, and slowly moving
their tufted tails to and fro.  William examined them at a respectful
distance from the bars; and so did Tommy, who had his mouth open with
astonishment, in which there was at first not a little fear mixed, but
he soon got bolder.  The gentleman who had accompanied them, and who had
been long at the Cape, was relating to Mr Seagrave and Captain Osborn
some very curious anecdotes about the lion.  William and they were so
interested, that they did not perceive that Tommy had slipped back to
the grated window of the den.  Tommy looked at the lions, and then he
wanted to make them move about: there was one fine full-grown young
lion, about three years old, who was lying down nearest to the window;
and Tommy took up a stone and threw it at him: the lion appeared not to
notice it, for he did not move, although he fixed his eyes upon Tommy;
so Tommy became more brave, and threw another, and then another,
approaching each time nearer to the bars of the window.

All of a sudden the lion gave a tremendous roar, and sprang at Tommy,
bounding against the iron bars of the cage with such force that, had
they not been very strong, it must have broken them.  As it was, they
shook and rattled so that pieces of mortar fell from the stones.  Tommy
shrieked; and, fortunately for himself, fell back and tumbled head over
heels, or the lion's paws would have reached him.  Captain Osborn and
Mr Seagrave ran up to Tommy, and picked him up: he roared with fright
as soon as he could fetch his breath, while the lion stood at the bars,
lashing his tail, snarling, and showing his enormous fangs
cried Tommy, who was terribly
frightened
said Captain Osborn
cried Tommy,
looking terrified towards the animal.

Mr Seagrave scolded Tommy well for his foolish conduct, and by degrees
he became more composed; but he did not recover himself until they had
walked some distance away from the lion's den.

They then looked at the other animals which were to be seen, Tommy
keeping a most respectful distance from every one of them.  He wouldn't
even go near to a Cape sheep with a broad tail.

When they had seen everything, they went back to the gentleman's house
to dinner; and, after dinner, they returned on board
The following morning the fresh water and provisions were received on
board, and once more the _Pacific_ stretched her broad canvas to the
winds, and there was every prospect of a rapid voyage, as for many days
she continued her passage with a fair wind and flowing sheet.  But this
did not continue: it fell calm, and remained so for nearly three days,
during which not a breath of wind was to be seen on the wide expanse of
water; all nature appeared as if in repose, except that now and then an
albatross would drop down at some distance from the stern of the vessel,
and, as he swam lazily along with his wings half-furled, pick up the
fragments of food which had been thrown over the side
inquired William
said William
said William, turning to Mr Seagrave, who stood by
observed Ready
On the third day of the calm, the barometer fell so low as to induce
Captain Osborn to believe that they should have a severe gale, and every
preparation was made to meet it, should it come on.  Nor was he
mistaken: towards midnight the clouds gathered up fast, and as they
gathered up in thick piles, heaped one over the other, the lightning
darted through them in every direction; and as the clouds rose up, so
did the wind, but at first only in heavy gusts, and then lulling again
to a calm
said Captain Osborn
Mr Seagrave, with William, happened to be standing by at the time of
this conversation, and at the term _dead_ lights Willy's face expressed
some anxiety.  Ready perceived it, and said
said Captain Osborn
replied the old man
and Ready walked away to the binnacle, and
looked at the compass.  Mr Seagrave and William then went below, and
Mr Mackintosh went forward to give his orders.  As soon as they were
all gone, Ready went up again to Captain Osborn and said
Their preparations were hardly complete before the wind had settled to a
fierce gale from the north-east.  The sea rose rapidly; topsail after
topsail was furled; and by dusk the _Pacific_ was flying through the
water with the wind on her quarter, under reefed foresail and storm
staysail.  It was with difficulty that three men at the wheel could keep
the helm, such were the blows which the vessel received from the heavy
seas on the quarter.  Not one seaman in the ship took advantage of his
watch below to go to sleep that night, careless as they generally are;
the storm was too dreadful.  About three o'clock in the morning the wind
suddenly subsided; it was but for a minute or two, and then it again
burst on the vessel from another quarter of the compass, as Ready had
foretold, splitting the foresail into fragments, which lashed and
flogged the wind till they were torn away by it, and carried far to
leeward.  The heavens above were of a pitchy darkness, and the only
light was from the creaming foam of the sea on every side.  The shift of
wind, which had been to the west-north-west, compelled them to alter the
course of the vessel, for they had no chance but to scud, as they now
did, under bare poles; but in consequence of the sea having taken its
run from the former wind, which had been north-east, it was, as sailors
call it, cross, and every minute the waves poured over the ship,
sweeping all before their weight of waters.  One poor man was washed
overboard, and any attempt made to save him would have been unavailing.
Captain Osborn was standing by the weather gunnel, holding on by one of
the belaying-pins, when he said to Mackintosh
replied the mate gravely
replied the captain
replied Ready,
pointing to the yard-arms of the ship, to each of which were little
balls of electric matter attached, flaring out to a point
Ready had not time to finish what he would have said, before a blaze of
light, so dazzling that it left them all in utter darkness for some
seconds afterwards, burst upon their vision, accompanied with a peal of
thunder, at which the whole vessel trembled fore and aft.  A crash -- a
rushing forward -- and a shriek were heard, and when they had recovered
their eyesight, the foremast had been rent by the lightning as if it had
been a lath, and the ship was in flames: the men at the wheel, blinded
by the lightning, as well as appalled, could not steer; the ship
broached to -- away went the mainmast over the side -- and all was wreck,
confusion, and dismay.

Fortunately the heavy seas which poured over the forecastle soon
extinguished the flames, or they all must have perished; but the ship
lay now helpless, and at the mercy of the waves beating violently
against the wrecks of the masts which floated to leeward, but were still
held fast to the vessel by their rigging.  As soon as they could recover
from the shock, Ready and the first mate hastened to the wheel to try to
get the ship before the wind; but this they could not do, as, the
foremast and mainmast being gone, the mizenmast prevented her paying off
and answering to the helm.  Ready, having persuaded two of the men to
take the helm, made a sign to Mackintosh (for now the wind was so loud
that they could not hear each other speak), and, going aft, they
obtained axes, and cut away the mizen-rigging; the mizen-topmast and
head of the mizenmast went over the side, and then the stump of the
foremast was sufficient to get the ship before the wind again.  Still
there was much delay and confusion, before they could clear away the
wreck of the masts; and, as soon as they could make inquiry, they found
that four of the men had been killed by the lightning and the fall of
the foremast, and there were now but eight remaining, besides Captain
Osborn and his two mates
Sailors are never discouraged by danger as long as they have any chance
of relieving themselves by their own exertions.  The loss of their
shipmates, so instantaneously summoned away,-- the wrecked state of the
vessel,-- the wild surges burying them beneath their angry waters,-- the
howling of the wind, the dazzling of the lightning, and the pealing of
the thunder, did not prevent them from doing what their necessity
demanded.  Mackintosh, the first mate, rallied the men, and contrived to
fix a block and strap to the still smoking stump of the foremast; a rope
was rove through the block, and the main-topgallant sail hoisted, so
that the vessel might run faster before the gale, and answer her helm
better than she did.

The ship was again before the wind, and comparatively safe,
notwithstanding the heavy blows she now received from the pursuing
waves.  Night again came on, but there was no repose, and the men were
worn out with exposure and fatigue.

The third day of the gale dawned, but the appearances were as alarming
as ever: the continual breaking of the seas over the stern had washed
away the binnacles, and it was impossible now to be certain of the
course the ship had been steered, or the distance which had been run;
the leaky state of the vessel proved how much she had already suffered
from the violent shocks which she had received, and the certainty was
apparent, that if the weather did not abate, she could not possibly
withstand the force of the waves much longer.

The countenance of Captain Osborn showed great anxiety: he had a heavy
responsibility on his shoulders -- he might lose a valuable ship, and
still more valuable cargo, even if they did not all lose their lives;
for they were now approaching where the sea was studded with low coral
islands, upon which they might be thrown by the waves and wind, without
having the slightest power to prevent it in their present disabled
condition.

Ready was standing by him when Captain Osborn said
replied Ready
replied Captain Osborn solemnly; and then he continued, after a
pause
replied Captain Osborn
Ready had just time to cling with both hands to the belaying-pins when
the sea poured over the vessel, with a volume of water which for some
time swept them off their legs: they clung on firmly, and at last
recovered their feet
said
Ready
replied Captain Osborn
All that night the ship flew in darkness before the gale.  At daybreak
the wind abated, and the sea went down: the ship was, however, still
kept before the wind, for she had suffered too much to venture to put
her broadside to the sea.  Preparations were now made for getting up
jury-masts; and the worn-out seamen were busily employed, under the
direction of Captain Osborn and his two mates, when Mr Seagrave and
William came upon deck.

William stared about him: he perceived, to his astonishment, that the
tall masts, with all their rigging and sails, had disappeared, and that
the whole deck was in a state of confusion and disorder
said Mr Seagrave
said old Ready
said Willy, after a pause
replied Ready
continued Ready to Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
said Mr
Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave, after a silence of a minute
or two
replied Ready
continued Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave and William went down below into the cabin, where they
found that there was plenty of employment; the steward had brought a
basin of very hot pea-soup for the children.  Tommy, who was sitting up
in the bed-place with his sister, had snatched it out of Juno's left
hand, for she held the baby with the other, and in so doing, had thrown
it over Caroline, who was screaming, while Juno, in her hurry to assist
Caroline, had slipped down on the deck with the baby, who was also
crying with fright, although not hurt.  Unfortunately, Juno had fallen
down upon Vixen the terrier, who in return had bitten her in the leg,
which had made Juno also cry out; while Mrs Seagrave was hanging her
head out of her standing bed-place, frightened out of her wits at the
accident, but unable to be of any assistance.  Fortunately, Mr Seagrave
came down just in time to pick up Juno and the baby, and then tried to
comfort little Caroline, who after all was not much scalded, as the soup
had had time to cool
cried Juno, rubbing her leg.
Master Tommy thought it better to say nothing -- he was duly admonished --
the steward cleaned up the mess, and order was at length restored.

In the meantime, they were not idle upon deck; the carpenter was busy
fixing a step for one of the spare topmasts instead of a mainmast, and
the men were fitting the rigging; the ship unfortunately had sprung a
leak, and four hands at the pumps interfered very much with their task.
As Ready had prophesied, before night the gale blew, the sea rose again
with the gale, and the leaking of the vessel increased so much, that all
other labour was suspended for that at the pump.  For two more days did
the storm continue, during which time the crew were worn out with
fatigue -- they could pump no longer: the ship, as she rolled, proved that
she had a great deal of water in her hold -- when, melancholy as were
their prospects already, a new disaster took place, which was attended
with most serious results.  Captain Osborn was on the forecastle giving
some orders to the men, when the strap of the block which hoisted up the
main-topgallant yard on the stump of the foremast gave way, the yard and
sail came down on the deck, and struck him senseless.  As long as
Captain Osborn commanded them, the sailors had so high an opinion of his
abilities as a seaman, and were so encouraged by his cheerful
disposition, that they performed their work well and cheerfully; but now
that he was, if not killed, at all events senseless and incapable of
action, they no longer felt themselves under control.  Mackintosh was
too much disliked by the seamen to allow his words to have any weight
with them.  They were regardless of his injunctions or requests, and
they now consulted among themselves
observed Ready, going up to the sailors on the forecastle
replied one of the men
replied Ready
replied the seaman
inquired Mackintosh
observed another of the men
said Mackintosh
replied one of the seamen, surlily
As Mackintosh's courage and determination were well known, the seamen
again consulted together, and then asked him what he proposed
said one of the seamen
exclaimed the others
replied the former spokesman
said Mackintosh
replied the seamen, unanimously; and Ready knew that it was in
vain to expostulate.  They now set about preparing the boat, and
providing for their wants.  Biscuits, salt pork, two or three small
casks of water, and a barrel of rum were collected at the gangway;
Mackintosh brought up his quadrant and a compass, some muskets, powder
and shot; the carpenter, with the assistance of another man, cut away
the ship's bulwarks down to the gunnel, so as to enable them to launch
the boat overboard, for they could not, of course, hoist her out now
that the masts were gone.  In an hour everything was prepared.  A long
rope was made fast to the boat, which was brought to the gunnel ready
for launching overboard, and the ship's broadside was brought to the
wind.  As this was done, Mr Seagrave came on deck and looked around
him.

He perceived the boat ready for launching, the provisions and water at
the gangway, the ship brought to the wind, and rolling slowly to the
heave of the sea; at last he saw Ready sitting down by Captain Osborn,
who was apparently dead
inquired Seagrave
replied Ready, gravely
cried Mr Seagrave, covering his face with his
hands
continued he after a pause
replied Mr Seagrave, with surprise
The sailors came aft, and lifted up the still insensible captain.  As
they were going away one of them said
replied Ready
replied the first mate
continued he, going up
to Ready, and whispering to him
replied Ready, extending his hand
After much further expostulation on the part of Mackintosh and the
seamen, to which Ready gave a deaf ear, the boat was pushed off, and
they made sail to the north-east
For some time after the boat had shoved off from the ship, old Ready
remained with his arms folded, watching it in silence.  Mr Seagrave
stood by him; his heart was too full for utterance, for he imagined that
as the boat increased her distance from the vessel, so did every ray of
hope depart, and that his wife and children, himself, and the old man
who was by his side were doomed to perish.  His countenance was that of
a man in utter despair.  At last old Ready spoke
replied Mr Seagrave, in a low voice
replied Ready, who then
went aft, and shifted the helm, so as to put the ship again before the
wind.

As the old man had foretold to the seamen before they quitted the
vessel, the gale was now over, and the sea had gone down considerably.
The ship, however, dragged but slowly through the water, and after a
short time Ready lashed the wheel, and went forward.  On his return to
the quarter-deck, he found Mr Seagrave had thrown himself down
(apparently in a state of despair) upon the sail on which Captain Osborn
had been laid after his accident
said Ready
Mr Seagrave pressed the hand of Ready, and went down without making any
reply.  He found that his wife had been asleep for the last hour, and
was not yet awake.  The children were also quiet in their beds.  Juno
and William were the only two who were sitting up.

William made a sign to his father that his mother was asleep, and then
said in a whisper
replied his father
William went on deck to Ready, who explained to him the position in
which they were placed; he pointed out to him the necessity of his doing
all he could to assist his father and him, and not to alarm his mother
in her precarious state of health.  William, who, as it may be expected,
looked very grave, did, however, immediately enter into Ready's views,
and proceeded to do his best
said he
continued he, looking round him, and up above
By the united exertions of Ready and William the breakfast was prepared
while Mrs Seagrave still continued in a sound sleep.  The motion of the
ship was now very little: she only rolled very slowly from one side to
the other; the sea and wind had gone down, and the sun shone brightly
over their heads; the boat had been out of sight some time, and the ship
did not go through the water faster than three miles an hour, for she
had no other sail upon her than the main-topgallant sail hoisted up on
the stump of the foremast.  Ready, who had been some time down in the
cabin, proposed to Mr Seagrave that Juno and all the children should go
on deck
Mr
Seagrave agreed to the good sense of this proposal, and went on deck
with Juno and the children, leaving William in the cabin to watch his
mother.  Poor Juno was very much astonished when she came up the ladder
and perceived the condition of the vessel, and the absence of the men;
but Mr Seagrave told her what had happened, and cautioned her against
saying a word to Mrs Seagrave.  Juno promised that she would not; but
the poor girl perceived the danger of their position, and, as she
pressed little Albert to her bosom, a tear or two rolled down her
cheeks.  Even Tommy and Caroline could not help asking where the masts
and sails were, and what had become of Captain Osborn
said Ready, pointing out some floating sea-weed to
Mr Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
observed Ready, reading off his quadrant
replied Mr Seagrave, looking mournfully at his
children
Mr Seagrave remained on deck.  He was soon in deep and solemn thought;
nor was it to be wondered at -- the ship a wreck and deserted -- left alone
on the wide water with his wife and helpless family, with but one to
assist him: had that one deserted as well as the rest, what would have
been his position then?  Utter helplessness!  And now what had they to
expect?  Their greatest hopes were to gain some island, and, if they
succeeded, perhaps a desert island, perhaps an island inhabited by
savages -- to be murdered, or to perish miserably of hunger and thirst.
It was not until some time after these reflections had passed through
his mind, that Mr Seagrave could recall himself to a sense of
thankfulness to the Almighty for having hitherto preserved them, or
could say with humility
But,
having once succeeded in repressing his murmurs, he then felt that he
had courage and faith to undergo every trial which might be imposed upon
him
said Ready
Ready went down to see what he could procure for dinner, as the seamen,
when they left the ship, had collected almost all which came first to
hand.  He soon procured a piece of salt beef and some potatoes, which he
put into the saucepan, and then returned on deck.

Mr Seagrave was forward, looking over the bows, and Ready went there to
him
replied Ready
said Ready, after examining it with his
glass
continued he, musing
replied Ready
replied Mr Seagrave.

Ready went to the helm and steered a course for the land, which was not
so far distant as he had imagined, for the island was very low: by
degrees the wind freshened up, and they went faster through the water;
and now, the trees, which had appeared as if in the air, joined on to
the land, and they could make out that it was a low coral island covered
with groves of cocoa-nuts.  Occasionally Ready gave the helm up to Mr
Seagrave, and went forward to examine.  When they were within three or
four miles of it, Ready came back from the forecastle and said
replied Mr Seagrave; who then went forward and
directed the steering of the vessel as they neared the island.  When
they were within half a mile of it, the colour of the water changed,
very much to the satisfaction of Ready, who knew that the weather-side
of the island would not be so steep as was usually the case: still it
was an agitating moment as they ran on to beach.  They were now within a
cable's length, and still the ship did not ground; a little nearer, and
there was a grating at her bottom -- it was the breaking off of the
coral-trees which grew below like forests under water -- again she grated,
and more harshly, then struck, and then again; at last she struck
violently, as the swell lifted her further on, and then remained fast
and quiet.  Ready let go the helm to ascertain the position of the ship.
He looked over the stern and around the ship, and found that she was
firmly fixed, fore and aft, upon a bed of coral rocks
said Ready to Mr Seagrave
As they rose to their feet again, after giving thanks to the Almighty,
William came up and said
exclaimed
Mrs Seagrave, when her husband went down below
replied Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave then entered into a detail of all that had passed.  Mrs
Seagrave heard him without reply; and when he had finished, she threw
herself in his arms and wept bitterly.  Mr Seagrave remained with his
wife, using all his efforts to console her, until Juno reappeared with
the children, for it was now getting late; then he returned on deck
said Ready, when Mr Seagrave went up to him
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave, smiling
Mr Seagrave assisted Ready in getting the two spars aft, and laid on
the spot which was required
Ready remained on deck, lashing the heads of the spars, and fixing his
tackles ready for the morrow.  When all was done, he sat down upon one
of the hen-coops aft, and remained in deep thought.  At last, tired with
watching and exertion, the old man fell asleep.  He was awakened at
daylight by the dogs, who had been set at liberty, and who, after
walking about the ship and finding nobody, had then gone to sleep at the
cabin door.  At daybreak they had roused up, and going on deck had found
old Ready asleep on the hen-coop, and were licking his face in their joy
at having discovered him
said the old man, as he got off the
hen-coop
said Ready, talking to himself
Ready placed the logboard on the hen-coop, and then wrote on it with the
chalk
said old Ready, getting up
As soon as Ready had executed his intentions, and had fed the animals,
he went to the cabin and called Mr Seagrave and William.  With their
assistance the sheers were raised, and secured in their place; the boat
was then hooked on, but, as one person was required to bear it clear of
the davits and taffrail, they could not hoist it in
William soon returned with Juno, who was a strong girl; and, with her
assistance, they succeeded in getting the boat in.

The boat was turned over, and Ready commenced his work; while Mr
Seagrave, at his request, put the pitch-pot on the galley fire, all
ready for pitching the canvas when it was nailed on.  It was not till
dinner-time that Ready, who had worked hard, could patch up the boat; he
then payed the canvas and the seams which he had caulked with pitch both
inside and out
said Ready
A rope was made fast to the boat, to hold her to the ship: she was then
launched over the gunnel by the united exertions of Mr Seagrave and
Ready, and to their great satisfaction she appeared to leak very little
said Ready
Ready put the sail in, an axe, a musket, and some cord; then they both
got into the boat and pulled on shore.

When they landed, they found that they could see nothing of the interior
of the island, the cocoa-nut groves were so thick; but to their right
they perceived, at about a quarter of a mile off, a small sandy cove,
with brushwood growing in front of the cocoa-nut trees
said Ready, pointing to it
In a few minutes they arrived at the cove; the water was shallow, and as
clear as crystal.  Beneath the boat's bottom they could see beautiful
shells, and the fish darting about in every direction.

The sand extended about forty yards from the water, and then commenced
the brushwood, which ran back about forty yards further, intermingled
with single cocoa-nut trees, until it joined the cocoa-nut grove.  They
pulled the boat in and landed
exclaimed Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
As they were pulling the boat back, Ready said
As soon as they arrived on board, Mr Seagrave went down to cheer his
wife with the account of what they had seen.  While he was down below,
Ready had cast off the lashings of the two spars which had formed the
sheers, and dragging them forward, had launched them over the gunnel,
with lines fast to them, ready for towing on shore.  In a few minutes
Juno and Tommy made their appearance on deck; Ready put some tools into
the boat, and a couple of shovels, which he brought up when he went for
the dogs, and once more they landed at the sandy cove.  Tommy stared
about him a great deal, but did not speak, until he saw the shells lying
on the beach, when he screamed with delight, and began to pick them up
as fast as he could; the dogs barked and galloped about, overjoyed at
being once more on shore; and Juno smiled as she looked around her,
saying to Ready
Having taken all these things to the little knoll which Ready had
pointed out before, they returned for the spars; and in two trips they
had carried everything there, Tommy with the second shovel on his
shoulder, and very proud to be employed
said
Ready
Having by this plan succeeded in lashing the spar high enough, and
throwing the sail over the spar, Ready and Mr Seagrave spread it out,
and found that it made a very good-sized tent
replied Mr Seagrave
When Ready returned on board, he first went down into the cabin to
acquaint Mrs Seagrave and William with what they had done.  Mrs
Seagrave naturally felt anxious about her husband being on shore alone,
and Ready informed her that they had agreed that if anything should
occur Mr Seagrave would fire the musket.  He then went down into the
sail-room to get some canvas, a new topgallant sail which was there, and
a palm and needles with twine.  Scarcely had he got them out, and at the
foot of the ladder, when the report of the musket was heard, and Mrs
Seagrave rushed out of the cabin in the greatest alarm; Ready seized
another musket, jumped into the boat, and pulled on shore as fast as he
could.  On his arrival, quite out of breath, for as he pulled on shore
he had his back towards it, and could see nothing, he found Mr Seagrave
and Juno busy with the tent, and Tommy sitting on the ground crying very
lustily.  It appeared that, while Mr Seagrave and Juno were employed,
Tommy had crept away to where the musket was placed up on end against a
cocoa-nut tree, and, after pulling it about some little while, had
touched the trigger.  The musket went off; and, as the muzzle was
pointed upwards, the charge had brought down two large cocoa-nuts.  Mr
Seagrave, who was aware what an alarm this would produce on board the
vessel, had been scolding him soundly, and now Master Tommy was crying,
to prove how very penitent he was
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave.

Ready then returned to the ship, and explained matters, and then
recommenced his labour.

Having put into the boat the sailmaker's bag, with palm and needles, two
mattresses, and blankets from the captain's state room, the saucepan
with the beef and pork, and a spar which he towed astern, Ready found
that he had as much as he could carry; but, as there was nobody but
himself in it, he came on shore very well.  Having, with the assistance
of Mr Seagrave and Juno, got all the things up to the knoll, Ready
lashed the spar up for the second tent, and then leaving them to fix it
up like the other, he returned again on board.  He made two other trips
to the ship, bringing with him more bedding, a bag of ship's biscuits,
another of potatoes, plates, knives and forks, spoons, frying-pans and
other cooking utensils, and a variety of other articles.  He then showed
Juno how to fill up the ends of the first tent with the canvas and sails
he had brought on shore, so as to inclose it all round; Juno took the
needle and twine, and worked very well.  Ready, satisfied that she would
be able to get on without them, now said
As soon as they arrived on board, Mr Seagrave went down to his wife to
propose her going on shore.  She was much agitated, and very weak from
her illness, but she behaved courageously notwithstanding, and,
supported by her husband, gained the deck, William following with the
baby, and his little sister Caroline carried by Ready.  With some
difficulty they were all at last placed in the boat and shoved off; but
Mrs Seagrave was so ill, that her husband was obliged to support her in
his arms, and William took an oar.  They landed very safely, and carried
Mrs Seagrave up to the tent, and laid her down on one of the
mattresses.  She asked for a little water
said Ready
Ready returned on board as fast as he could, and brought on shore two
kegs of fresh water, which he and William rolled up to the tent.

Juno had completely finished her task, and Mrs Seagrave having drunk
some water, declared that she was much better
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready, sitting down
said William
said Mr Seagrave, taking up a tin can which
had been filled for his wife
Poor old Ready was indeed quite tired out; but he ate something, and
felt much revived.  Juno was very busy; she had given the children some
of the salt meat and biscuit to eat.  The baby, and Tommy, and Caroline
had been put to bed, and the second tent was nearly ready
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
Mr Seagrave then offered up a prayer of thankfulness; and they all
retired to rest
Mr Seagrave was the first who awoke and rose from his bed on the
ensuing morning.  He stepped out of the tent, and looked around him.
The sky was clear and brilliant.  A light breeze ruffled o'er the
surface of the water, and the tiny waves rippled one after another upon
the white sand of the cove.  To the left of the cove the land rose,
forming small hills, behind which appeared the continuation of the
cocoa-nut groves.  To the right, a low ridge of coral rocks rose almost
as a wall from the sea, and joined the herbage and brushwood at about a
hundred paces, while the wreck of the Pacific, lying like some huge
stranded monster, formed the prominent feature in the landscape.  The
sun was powerful where its beams could penetrate; but where Mr Seagrave
stood, the cocoa-nuts waved their feathery leaves to the wind, and
offered an impervious shade.  A feeling of the extreme beauty of the
scene, subdued by the melancholy created by the sight of the wrecked
vessel, pervaded the mind of Mr Seagrave as he meditated over it
thought he
Mr Seagrave turned back to his tent.  William, Tommy, and old Ready
still remained fast asleep
thought Mr Seagrave
The dogs, who had crept into the tent and laid themselves down upon the
mattresses by the side of William and Tommy, now fawned upon Mr
Seagrave.  William woke up with their whining, and having received a
caution from his father not to wake Ready, he dressed himself and came
out
said William
William soon returned to his father, stating that his mother was in a
sound sleep, and that Juno had got up without waking her or the two
children
replied Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave then went down to the cove; the little boat was lying on
the beach, just lifted by the rippling waves; they pushed her off, and
got into her
said William, as they pulled on board
Although they were neither of them very handy at the oar, they were soon
alongside of the ship; and, having made the boat fast, they climbed on
board.

William first went down to the cabin for the tea and coffee, and then
left his father to collect other things while he went to milk the goats,
which he did in a tin pan.  He then poured the milk into a bottle, which
he had washed out, that it might not be spilt, and went back to his
father
replied Mr Seagrave
In a short time everything was put into the boat, and they pulled on
shore again.  They found Juno, who had been washing herself, waiting for
them at the cove, to assist to take up the things
said Juno: and then pointing to the clear water,
she said
replied Mr Seagrave
When they arrived at the tent they found that every one was awake except
Ready, who appeared still to sleep very sound.  Mrs Seagrave had passed
a very good night, and felt herself much refreshed.  William made some
touch-paper, which he lighted with one of the glasses from the
telescope, and they soon had a good fire.  Mr Seagrave went to the
beach, and procured three large stones to rest the saucepan on; and in
half an hour the water was boiling and the tea made
Juno had taken the children down to the cove, and, walking out into the
water up to her knees, had dipped them in all over, as the shortest way
of washing them, and had then dressed them and left them with their
mother, while she assisted William to get the cups and saucers and
plates for breakfast.  Everything was laid out nice and tidy between the
two tents, and then William proposed that he should awaken Ready
William went and pushed Ready on the shoulder
said William, as the old man sat up
replied William, laughing.

Ready was soon dressed, for he had only taken off his jacket when he lay
down.  He put it on, and came out of the tent; when, to his
astonishment, he found the whole party (Mrs Seagrave having come out
with the children) standing round the breakfast, which was spread on the
ground
said Mrs Seagrave, extending her hand.  Mr
Seagrave also shook hands with him
said Mr Seagrave
continued Ready,
smiling
replied Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
Mrs Seagrave then read a
chapter from the Bible, and afterwards they all knelt down while Mr
Seagrave offered up a prayer.

While they were at breakfast, William told Ready how they had gone on
board, and what they had brought on shore, and he also mentioned how
Juno had dipped all the children in the sea
replied Ready
cried Mrs Seagrave, shuddering
continued Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
The whole day was spent in landing every variety of article which they
thought could be useful.  All the small sails, cordage, twine, canvas,
small casks, saws, chisels, and large nails, and elm and oak plank, were
brought on shore before dinner.  After they had taken a hearty dinner,
the cabin tables and chairs, all their clothes, some boxes of candles,
two bags of coffee, two of rice, two more of biscuits, several pieces of
beef and pork and bags of flour, some more water, the grindstone, and
Mrs Seagrave's medicine-chest were landed.  When Ready came off again,
he said
Ready went below, and the squealing of the pig was soon heard; he came
on deck with it hanging over his back by the hind legs, and threw it
into the sea over the gunnel: the pig floundered at first; but after a
few seconds, turned its head away from the ship and swam for the shore
said Ready, who, with Mr Seagrave and
William, was watching the animal; but a minute afterwards, Ready
exclaimed
replied Mr Seagrave
said Ready, as the pig disappeared under the water with a
heavy splash
replied Ready
As soon as the pigs were in the boat, Ready sculled it on shore, while
Mr Seagrave and William brought up the goats and sheep ready for the
next trip.  Ready soon returned
They then all got into the boat, which was very deeply laden, for the
corn was heavy, but they got safe on shore, although they leaked very
much.  Having landed the goats and sheep, William led them up to the
tent, where they remained very quietly; the pigs had run away, and so
had the fowls
said Ready
They were not at all sorry, after their hard day's work, to find that
Juno had prepared coffee for them; and while they were drinking it, they
narrated to Mrs Seagrave the tragically death of the poor pig by the
shark.  Poor Juno appeared quite frightened at the danger which the
children had been in, even now that it was all over
observed Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
inquired Mr Seagrave
said William
said Mrs
Seagrave
said William
When breakfast was over the next morning, Ready observed
replied Mr Seagrave
interrupted Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
said Mr Seagrave
said Tommy
said Ready, laughing
said Mrs Seagrave
replied
Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
replied Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
observed Mr Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
Tommy jumped up directly; he was quite strong enough to turn the
grindstone, but he was much fonder of play than work; but as Ready had
said that he was fond of it, he wished to prove that such was the case,
and worked very hard.  Before they went to prayers and retired for the
night, the axe was sharpened, the knapsacks made, and everything else
ready
said Mr Seagrave
said Mrs Seagrave
said William
replied Mrs Seagrave
Mrs Seagrave went into the tent to hide the tears which she could not
suppress
Ready was up before the sun had appeared, and he awakened William.  The
knapsacks had been already packed, with two bottles of water in each,
wrapped round with cocoa-nut leaves, to prevent their breaking, and the
beef and pork divided between each knapsack.  Ready's, which was larger
than William's, held the biscuit and several other things which Ready
had prepared in case they might require them.

As soon as the knapsacks were on, Ready took the axe and gun, and asked
William if he thought he could carry a small spade on his shoulder,
which they had brought on shore along with the shovels.  William replied
that he could; and the dogs, who appeared to know they were going, were
all ready standing by them.  Then, just as the sun rose, they turned
into the cocoa-nut grove, and were soon out of sight of the tents
said Ready, stopping after they had walked
twenty yards
replied William
observed William
replied Ready
replied William, as he held up his finger
William wet his finger, and held it up again
said he
As Ready said this the dogs growled, then started forward and barked
cried William
replied Ready, cocking his gun
Ready advanced cautiously with the gun to his hip.
The dogs barked more furiously; and at last, out of a heap of cocoa-nut
leaves collected together, burst all the pigs which had been brought on
shore, grunting and galloping away as fast as they could, with the dogs
in pursuit of them
said Ready, smiling
continued Ready, calling to the dogs
replied William,
laughing
Ready and William continued their way through the cocoa-nut grove for
more than an hour longer, marking the trees as they went along; they
then sat down to take their breakfast
said Ready
Ready and William recommenced their journey; and, after half-an-hour's
walking, they found that the ground was not so level as it had been --
sometimes they went gradually up hill, at others down
replied William
The ground now became more undulating, although still covered with
cocoa-nut trees, even thicker together than before.  They continued
their march, occasionally looking at the compass, until William showed
symptoms of weariness, for the wood had become more difficult to get
through than at first
said Willy
They now descended into a small hollow, and then went up hill again.  As
soon as they arrived at the top, William cried out
said
William, as he impatiently pushed on, and at last stood clear of the
cocoa-nut grove.  Ready soon joined him, and they surveyed the scene
before them in silence
exclaimed William, at last
replied Ready, thoughtfully.

A more lovely scene could scarcely be imagined.  The cocoa-nut grove
terminated about a quarter of a mile from the beach, very abruptly, for
there was a rapid descent for about thirty feet from where they stood to
the land below, on which was a mixture of little grass knolls and
brushwood, to about fifty yards from the water's edge, where it was met
with dazzling white sand, occasionally divided by narrow ridges of rock
which ran inland.  The water was a deep blue, except where it was broken
into white foam on the reefs, which extended for miles from the beach,
and the rocks of which now and then showed themselves above water.  On
the rocks were perched crowds of gannets and men-of-war birds, while
others wheeled in the air, every now and then darting down into the blue
sea, and bringing up in their bills a fish out of the shoals which
rippled the water, or bounded clear of it in their gambols.  The form of
the coast was that of a horse-shoe bay -- two points of land covered with
shrubs extending far out on each side.  The line of the horizon, far out
at sea, was clear and unbroken.

Ready remained for some time without speaking; he scanned the horizon
right and left, and then he turned his eyes along the land.  At last
William said
Ready cut two wide marks in the stems of the cocoa-nut trees, and then
descended with William to the low ground, where they sat down to eat
their dinner.  As soon as their meal was finished they first walked down
to the water's edge, and Ready turned his eyes inland to see if he could
discover any little ravine or hollow which might be likely to contain
fresh water
observed Ready,
pointing to them with his finger
said Ready.

William did so, and the flower, as he called it, immediately shut up
cried William, pointing to the sand
replied William.

They now continued their walk, and, forcing their way through the
brushwood which grew thick upon the point of land, soon arrived at the
end of it
said William, pointing to the right of where
they stood
continued Ready, scanning the length of the horizon,
along which he could see the tops of the trees
They returned to the high ground where the cocoa-nut grove ended, and
collecting together several branches and piles of leaves, made a good
soft bed under the trees
William slept as sound as if he had been on shore in England upon a soft
bed in a warm room -- so did old Ready; and when they awoke the next
morning it was broad daylight.  The poor dogs were suffering for want of
water, and it pained William to see them with their tongues out, panting
and whining as they looked up to him
said Ready
William was very glad to go, and away they
went, followed by the dogs, Ready having taken up the spade, which he
carried on his shoulder.  They soon came to the dell, and the dogs put
their noses to the ground, and snuffed about.  Ready watched them; at
last they lay down panting
said Ready, thoughtfully; they went on to where the run
of water appeared to have been -- the dogs snuffed about more eagerly than
before
replied William
Ready walked quickly to where the dogs continued digging: they had
already got down to the moist earth, and were so eagerly at work, that
it was with difficulty he could get them out of his way to use his
spade.  He had not dug two feet before the water trickled down, and in
four or five minutes the dogs had sufficient to plunge their noses in,
and to drink copiously
replied William
said Ready, as they walked
back to where they had slept and left their knapsacks
As soon as the breakfast was over, Ready said
They soon arrived at the end of the point of land, and found that Ready
was not wrong in his supposition; the water was deep, and there was a
passage many yards wide.  The sea was so smooth, and the water so clear,
that they could see down to the rocky bottom, and watched the fish as
they darted along
said Willy, pointing out about fifty
yards from the beach
replied Ready
As they walked along the edge of the sandy beach they found the
sea-birds hovering close to them: all of a sudden a large shoal of fish
threw themselves high and dry on the sand, and they were followed by
several of a larger size, which also lay flapping on the beach, while
the sea-birds, darting down close to the feet of William and Ready, and
seizing up the fish, flew away with them
said William, surprised
They found the hole which Ready had dug quite full of water, and,
tasting it, it proved very sweet and good.  Overjoyed at this discovery,
they covered up the articles they agreed to leave behind them with some
boughs under the notched cocoa-nut trees, and, calling the dogs, set off
on their journey back again to the cove
Guided by the marks made on the trees, William and Ready made rapid
progress in their return, and in less than two hours found themselves
almost clear of the wood which had taken them nearly eight hours to
force their way through the day before
observed William
replied Ready
As they proceeded, the rustling and waving of the boughs of the trees,
and ever and anon a gust of wind, followed by a moaning and creaking
sound, proved that such was the fact; and as they emerged from the
grove, they perceived that the sky, as it became visible to them, was of
one dark leaden hue, and no longer of the brilliant blue which it
usually had presented to their sight
said Ready, as they cleared the
wood
The dogs now bounded forward; and at their appearance at the tents Mr
Seagrave and Juno came out, and seeing Ready and William advancing, made
known the welcome tidings to Mrs Seagrave, who, with the children, had
remained within.  In a moment more William was pressed in his mother's
arms
said Mr Seagrave, shaking
him by the hand after he had embraced William
replied Ready
The four went down as soon as Ready had sawed the ends of the spars
which had been cut off, into three rollers, to fix under the keel; with
the help afforded by them, the boat was soon hauled up high into the
brushwood, where it was considered by Ready to be perfectly safe
observed Ready
continued he, looking
at the weather
Ready, assisted by Mr Seagrave, now got out some heavy canvas and
lines, and commenced putting it as a double cover over the tents, to
keep out the rain; they also secured the tents with guys and stays of
rope, so as to prevent them being blown down; while Juno with a shovel
deepened the trench which had been made round the tents, so that the
water might run off more easily.  During the time they were at work,
Ready had made Mr Seagrave acquainted with what they had discovered and
done during the exploring expedition, and the adventure with the pigs
made them all laugh heartily.

As the sun went down, the weather threatened still more; the wind blew
strong, and the rocky beach was lashed by the waves and white with
spray, while the surf roared as it poured in and broke upon the sand in
the cove.  The whole family had retired to bed except Ready, who said
that he would watch the weather a little before he turned in.  The old
man walked towards the beach, and leaned against the gunnel of the boat,
and there he remained with his keen grey eye fixed upon the distance,
which was now one opaque mass, except where the white foam of the waters
gleamed through the darkness of the night
thought he
A sharp flash of lightning struck upon the old man's eyes, and
obstructed his vision for the moment
thought he
Then the rain came pattering down, and the wind
howled louder than before.  In a minute or two the darkness became so
intense that he could hardly find his way back to the tents.  He turned
round, but could not see, for he was blinded by the heavy rain.  As
nothing could be done, he went into the tent and sheltered himself from
the storm, although he would not lie down, lest his services might be
required.  The others had retired to bed, but with the exception of
Tommy and the children, they had not taken off their clothes
The storm now raged furiously, the lightning was accompanied by loud
peals of thunder, and the children awoke and cried with fright, till
they were hushed to sleep again.  The wind howled as it pressed with all
its violence against the tents, while the rain poured off in torrents.
One moment the canvas of the tents would bulge in, and the cords which
held it strain and crack; at another, an eddy of wind would force out
the canvas, which would flap and flap, while the rain found many an
entrance.  The tent in which Mrs Seagrave and the children reposed was
on the outside of the others, and therefore the most exposed.  About
midnight the wind burst on them with greater violence than before.  A
loud crash was heard by Ready and Mr Seagrave, followed by the shrieks
of Mrs Seagrave and Juno; the pegs of the tent had given way, and the
inmates were exposed to the fury of the elements.  Ready rushed out,
followed by Mr Seagrave and William.  So strong was the wind and
beating rain, and such was the darkness, that it was with some
difficulty that by their united efforts the women and children could be
extricated.  Tommy was the first taken up by Ready: his courage had all
gone, and he was bellowing furiously.  William took Albert in charge and
carried him into the other tent, where Tommy sat in his wet shirt
roaring most melodiously.  Juno, Mrs Seagrave, and the little girl were
at last carried away and taken into the other tent: fortunately no one
was hurt, although the frightened children could not be pacified, and
joined in chorus with Tommy.  Nothing more could be done except to put
the children into bed, and then the whole party sat up the remainder of
the night listening to the noise of the wind, the roaring of the sea,
and the loud patter of the rain against the canvas.  At dawn of day,
Ready went out, and found that the gale had spent its force, and had
already much abated; but it was not one of those bright glorious
mornings to which they had been accustomed since their arrival at the
island: the sky was still dark, and the clouds were chasing each other
wildly; there was neither sun nor blue sky to be seen: it still rained,
but only at intervals, and the earth was soft and spongy; the little
cove, but the day before so beautiful, was now a mass of foaming and
tumultuous waves, and the surf was thrown many yards upon the beach: the
horizon was confused -- you could not distinguish the line between the
water and the sky, and the whole shore of the island was lined with a
white foam.  Ready turned his eyes to where the ship had been fixed on
the rocks: it was no longer there -- the whole frame had disappeared; but
the fragments of it, and the contents of the holds, were floating about
in every direction, or tossing amongst the surf on the beach
said Ready, pointing to where the ship had lain, as
he turned round and found that Mr Seagrave had followed him
replied Mr Seagrave
pointing to the tent which had been blown down
They set to work.  Ready and Mr Seagrave made it fast with fresh cords
and pegs, and very soon had it all ready; but the beds and bedding were
wet through.  They hauled over the wet canvas, and then left it to go to
their breakfast, to which Juno had summoned them
said Ready
They went down to the beach.  Ready first procured from the stores a
good stout rope; and as the waves threw up casks and timbers of the
vessel, they stopped them from being washed back again, and either
rolled or hauled them up with the rope until they were safely landed.
This occupied them for the major part of the day; and yet they had not
collected a quarter of the articles that were in their reach,
independent of the quantity which floated about out at sea and at the
entrance of the cove
said Ready
The tent which had not been blown down was given to Mrs Seagrave and
the children, and the other was fitted up as well as it could be.  The
bedding being all wet, they procured some sails from the stores, which,
being stowed away farther in the grove, had not suffered much from the
tempest; and, spreading the canvas, they lay down, and the night passed
without any disaster, for the wind was now lulled to a pleasant breeze.

The next morning the sun shone bright -- the air was fresh and bracing;
but a slight breeze rippled the waters, and there was little or no surf.
The various fragments of the wreck were tossed by the little surf that
still remained; many things were lying on the beach which had landed
during the night, and many more required but a little trouble to secure
them.  There appeared to be a sort of in draught into the cove, as all
the articles which had been floating out at sea were now gradually
coming on shore in that direction.  Ready and Mr Seagrave worked till
breakfast-time, and had by that time saved a great many casks and
packages.

After breakfast they went down again to the beach and resumed their
labours
said William, who was with them,
as he pointed to a white-looking mass floating in the cove
said Ready
Ready left them at their own employment, and went away for his tools.
During this time Mr Seagrave and William occupied themselves in
collecting the different articles thrown on shore, and rolling up the
casks as far as they could.

As it would take some days for Ready to put the boat into proper order,
Mr Seagrave determined that he would go to the other side of the island
with William, that he might examine it himself; and, as Mrs Seagrave
had no objection to be left with Ready and Juno, on the third day after
the gale they set off.  William led the way, guiding his footsteps
through the grove by the blazing of the cocoa-nut trees; and in two
hours they reached their destination
said William
replied Mr Seagrave
said William, leading the
way to the ravine.

The spring was full and flowing, and the water excellent.  They then
directed their steps towards the sandy beach, and, having walked some
time, sat down upon a coral rock
said Mr Seagrave
replied William
exclaimed William
For a few minutes after this conversation, Mr Seagrave and William were
both silent.  Mr Seagrave then rose from where he was sitting
Everything was now preparing for their removal to the leeward side of
the island.  Ready had nearly completed the boat; he had given it a
thorough repair, and fitted a mast and sail.  William and Mr Seagrave
continued to collect and secure the various articles thrown on shore,
particularly such as would be injured by their exposure to the weather:
these they rolled or carried into the cocoa-nut grove, so as to be
sheltered from the sun; but there were so many things thrown on shore
day after day, that they hardly knew what they had: but they secured
case and cask one after another, waiting for a better opportunity to
examine their contents.  At last they collected a great many articles
together, and, with their shovels, covered them over with sand, it being
impossible to get them from the beach without more time than they could
spare.

Neither was Mrs Seagrave, who was now getting quite strong, or Juno,
idle.  They had made up everything that they could in packages, ready
for moving.  On the eighth day after the gale, they were ready, and it
was arranged that Ready should put into the boat the bedding and canvas
of one tent, and should take William with him on his expedition.  Having
transported this safe, he should return for a load of the most necessary
articles, and then the family should walk through the grove to the other
side of the island, and remain there with Mr Seagrave while Ready and
William returned for the other tent; and after that, the boat should
make as many trips as the weather would permit, till they had brought
all the things absolutely required.  It was a lovely calm morning when
Ready and William pushed off in the boat, which was well loaded; and as
soon as they were clear of the cove they hoisted the sail, and went away
before the wind along the coast.  In two hours they had run to the
eastern end of the island, and hauled up close inshore: the point which
ran out, and at the end of which there was an inlet, was not a mile from
them, and in a very short time they had lowered the sail, and were
pulling in for the sandy beach
The boat was soon unloaded, but they had some way to carry up the
things
said Ready
said William
Willy reported the spring to be up to the brim with water, and that he
had never drunk water so excellent.  They then pushed off the boat, and,
after rowing for about two hours or more, found themselves at the
entrance of the cove, and Mrs Seagrave, with Tommy by her side, waving
her handkerchief to them.

They very soon pulled in to the beach, and, landing, received the
congratulations of the whole party at their first successful voyage, and
all expressed their delight at its having proved so much shorter than
had been anticipated
said Master Tommy
replied Ready
said Juno
said the little urchin, running after Juno
said Ready, as they sat down to their meal
Old Ready had his boat loaded and had made sail for the other side of
the island long before the family were up; indeed, before they were
dressed he had landed his whole cargo on the beach, and was sitting down
quietly taking his breakfast.  As soon as he had eaten the beef and
biscuit which he had taken with him, he carried up the things which he
had brought, and commenced arrangements for setting up the tent,
intending to await the arrival of William and Juno, that they might
assist him in getting up the spars and canvas over it.

About ten o'clock William made his appearance, leading one of the goats
by a string, followed by the others.  Juno came after with the sheep,
also holding one with a cord; the rest had very quietly joined the
procession
said William laughing
said Juno
said William
replied William
said Ready
For some time after Ready had finished, neither of them said a word, but
continued their employment, stretching out the canvas of the tent, and
fastening it down to the ground with pegs.  At last William broke the
silence
replied William
In an hour the fireplace was made, Ready had done all that he could, the
goats were milked and let loose, and then William and Juno set off on
their journey back.

Ready went down to the beach.  On his arrival there, he observed a small
turtle: creeping up softly he got between it and the water, and
succeeded in turning it over
said he, as
he stepped into the boat; and laying hold of the oars, he pulled out of
the bay to return to the cove
Ready arrived at the cove, and proceeded to the tents, where he found
the whole party listening to William, who was detailing what had been
done.  The arrangements for the next day were made as soon as Ready
joined them.  They then separated for the night, but Ready and William
remained until it was dark, to catch the fowls and tie their legs, ready
for their being put in the boat the next morning.  At daylight all were
summoned to dress themselves as soon as possible, as Ready wanted to
take down the tent in which Mrs Seagrave and the children had slept.
For, with the exception of Tommy, the others had slept upon some canvas,
which they had spread out under the cocoa-nut trees.  As soon as Mrs
Seagrave was dressed, the tent was taken down, and, with all the
bedding, put into the boat.  Then, when they had breakfasted, the
plates, knives and forks, and some other necessaries, were also put in;
Ready laid the fowls on the top of all, and set off by himself for their
new location.

After he was gone, the rest of the party prepared for their journey
through the cocoa-nut grove.  William led the way, with the three dogs
close to his heels, Mr Seagrave with the baby in his arms, Juno with
little Caroline, and Mrs Seagrave with Master Tommy holding her hand.
They cast a last look round at the cove, and the fragments of the wreck
and cargo, strewed about in every direction, and then turned into the
wood.  Ready arrived at the point, and was again on shore in less than
two hours after he had set off.  As soon as the boat was safe in, he did
not wait to land his cargo, but going up to the turtle which he had
turned the day before, he killed it, and cleaned it on the beach.  He
then went to where they had built up the fireplace with stones, made a
fire, filled the iron saucepan full of water, and set it on to boil; he
then cut up a portion of the turtle, and put it into the pot, with some
slices of salt pork, covered it up, and left it to boil; and having hung
up the rest of the turtle in the shade, he went back to the beach to
unload the boat.  He released the poor fowls, and they were soon busy
seeking for food.

It was two or three hours before he had carried everything up, for it
was a good distance, and some of the articles were heavy, and the old
man was not sorry when he had finished his task, and could sit down to
rest himself
thought Ready
Ready remained a quarter of an hour more
watching the fire, and occasionally skimming the top of the pot, when
the three dogs came bounding towards him
observed Old Ready.

In six or seven minutes afterwards the party made their appearance, very
hot and very fatigued.  It appeared that poor little Caroline had been
tired out, and Juno had to carry her; then Mrs Seagrave complained of
fatigue, and they had to rest a quarter of an hour; then Tommy, who
refused to remain with his mamma, and had been running backwards and
forwards from one to the other, had declared that he was tired, and that
someone must carry him; but there was no one to carry him, so he began
to cry until they stopped for another quarter of an hour till he was
rested; then as soon as they went on again he again complained of being
tired.  William then carried him pickaback for some time, and in so
doing he missed the blaze-cut on the trees, and it was a long while
before he could find it again; then baby became hungry, and he cried,
and little Caroline was frightened at being so long in the wood, and she
cried.  But finally they got on better, and arrived at last so warm and
exhausted, that Mrs Seagrave went into the tent with the children to
repose a little, before she could even look at the place which was to be
their future residence
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
Mr Seagrave went into the tent, and found his wife much refreshed; but
the children had all fallen fast asleep on the beds.  They waited
another half-hour, and then woke Tommy and Caroline, that they might all
sit down to dinner
exclaimed William, as Ready took the cover off the saucepan
replied Ready
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Juno
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
replied Juno, looking at Ready
said Mr Seagrave, pointing to the
sea
said Juno, looking in that direction
inquired Mrs Seagrave
said Ready
replied Mrs Seagrave
The soup was pronounced excellent by everybody.  As soon as they had
finished, Mrs Seagrave remained with the children; and Ready and Mr
Seagrave, assisted by Juno and William, got the second tent up, and
everything ready for the night.  They then all assembled, and returned
thanks to God for their having gained their new abode; and, tired out
with the fatigue of the day, were soon fast asleep
Mr Seagrave was the first up on the ensuing morning; and when Ready
came out of the tent, he said to him
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
Ready directed Juno to fry some pork in the frying-pan, and then to cut
off some slices from the turtle, and cook turtle-steaks for dinner, as
well as to warm up the soup which was left; and then, with a biscuit and
a piece of beef in his hand, he went down to the boat and set off for
the cove.  Mr Seagrave and William worked hard; and, by twelve o'clock,
the hole was quite large and deep enough, according to the directions
Ready had given.  They then left their work and went to the tent
said Mrs
Seagrave, taking her husband's hand, as he seated himself by her
said Mr
Seagrave
continued William
said Mrs Seagrave.

They did so; and William rolled up the empty water-cask which Ready had
brought with him.

The turtle-steaks were as much approved of as the turtle-soup; indeed,
after having been so long on salt meat, a return to fresh provisions was
delightful
said William, as soon as dinner was over
said his mother
said Ready.

They rolled the cask to the spring, and, to their astonishment, found
the great hole which they had dug not two hours before quite full of
water
said William
said Mr Seagrave
replied William
replied Ready
Ready bored three or four holes in the bottom of the cask, and as it
floated the water ran into it, and by degrees it gradually sank down.
As soon as the top of the cask was level with the surface they filled in
all round with the spade and shovel, and the well was completed
The next morning, as soon as breakfast was over, Mr Seagrave observed
replied Ready
said
Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave and Ready then walked down to the beach, and, after
surveying the reefs for some time, Ready said
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
Mr Seagrave called and waved his hat, and Juno and William came down to
them.  Juno was ordered to go back for two handspikes, while Ready
explained to William what was to be done.  Having stayed with them and
assisted them for some time after Juno had returned with the implements,
Mr Seagrave and Ready proceeded to the point, to fix upon a spot for a
garden, leaving William and Juno to continue their labour
Mr Seagrave and Ready then continued their way along the beach, until
they arrived at the point which the latter had considered as a
convenient place to make the garden.  They found a sufficiency of mould;
and as the point was narrow at its joining on to the mainland, no great
length of enclosure would be required
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
said Ready
Ready and Mr Seagrave proceeded in the direction which the former had
pointed out, until they arrived at a spot on a rising ground, where the
trees were so thick that it was not very easy to pass through them
said Ready
Juno and William returned to the dinner which Mrs Seagrave had
prepared.  They were both very warm with their work, which was very
hard, but very eager to finish their task.  After dinner was over, Mrs
Seagrave requested her husband, as he was about to go down to the point,
with the spade and a small hatchet in his hand, to take Tommy with him,
as she had a great deal to do, and could not watch him as well as the
baby and Caroline.  So Mr Seagrave took Tommy by the hand, and led him
to the point, and made him sit down close to him while he cleared away
the brushwood.

Mr Seagrave worked very hard, and when he had cut down and cleared a
portion of the ground, he made Tommy carry away to a little distance,
and pile in a heap, the bushes which he had cleared away.  When Mr
Seagrave had cleared away a large piece of ground with his hatchet, he
then took his spade to dig at the roots and turn up the mould, leaving
Tommy to amuse himself.  What Tommy did for about an hour, during which
Mr Seagrave worked very diligently, his father did not observe; but all
of a sudden he began to cry; and when his father asked him the reason,
he did not answer, but only cried the more, until at last he put his
hands to his stomach, and roared most lustily.  As he appeared to be in
very great pain, his father left off work, and led him up to the tent,
when Mrs Seagrave came out, alarmed at his cries.  Ready, who had heard
Tommy screaming for so long a while, thought that there might be
something serious, and left his work to ascertain the cause.  When he
heard what had passed, he said
roared Tommy
said Ready
And the old man hastened down to the place where Mr
Seagrave had been at work.  In the meantime Mrs Seagrave was much
alarmed lest the child should have poisoned himself, and Mr Seagrave
went to search among the medicines for some castor-oil.

Ready returned just as he came back to the tent with the bottle of
castor-oil, and he told Ready that he was about to give Tommy a dose
replied Ready, who had a plant in his hand
cried Tommy
What Ready said was true; nevertheless Master Tommy was very ill for the
whole of the day, and was put early to bed
The next day, when Mr Seagrave, William, Juno, and Ready were all at
work at their allotted tasks, Mrs Seagrave was sitting down at the
front of the tent, the little baby, Albert, crawling close to her,
Caroline trying to work with her needle, and Tommy was making holes in
the ground, and putting a small stone into each hole
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Tommy
replied Tommy, pointing to the
stones
replied Tommy
replied Tommy
replied Tommy
said Tommy
Tommy went after the baby, who was crawling towards the kid, which had
now grown pretty large, and as he took up his brother he kicked at the
goat's head
replied Tommy, holding the baby by one hand while he
continued to kick at Billy.  Billy, however, would not stand it; he
lowered his head, made a butt at Tommy, and he and Albert rolled on the
ground one over the other.  The baby roared, and Tommy began to whimper.
Mrs Seagrave ran up to them and caught up the baby; and Tommy,
alarmed, caught hold of his mother's dress for protection, looking
behind him at Billy, who appeared inclined to renew the attack
said Mrs Seagrave, pacifying the child
replied Tommy, who perceived that the goat was
walking away
said Caroline
replied Tommy
replied his mother
said Tommy
replied Tommy.

Ready soon came up to where Mrs Seagrave was sitting, and laid down the
bag
cried Tommy
replied Ready, wiping his face
replied Mrs Seagrave
Ready assisted Mrs Seagrave, and the dinner was spread out on the
ground, for they had not brought the chairs and tables with them to
their new residence, as they thought that they could do without them
till the house was built.  William reported that Juno and he would have
the turtle-pond complete by the next day.  Mr Seagrave had cleared
sufficient ground to plant the half-sack of potatoes that they had
saved, so that in a day or two they would be able to put all their
strength upon the cutting and drawing of the timber.

After dinner, William and Ready set off in the boat, and, before it was
dark, returned with the wheels and axle of the carriage, and several
other articles to make up their load
said Ready
As soon as the sun had disappeared, William and Ready went down to the
beach, and sat quietly on a rock.  In a short time, Ready perceived a
turtle crawling on the sand, and, desiring William to follow him without
speaking, walked softly down by the water's edge, so as to get between
the animal and the sea.

As soon as the turtle perceived them, it made for the water, but they
met it; and Ready, seizing hold of one of its fore-flippers, turned it
over on its back
Ready and William remained till past midnight, and turned sixteen
turtle
The next morning before breakfast all hands were employed in getting the
turtle into the pond.  After breakfast, William and Juno finished the
pond where the walls had not been raised high enough; and, when they
returned to dinner, reported that their task was completed.  Mr
Seagrave also said that he had, he thought, cleared quite ground enough
for the present; and as Mrs Seagrave wanted Juno to help her to wash
the linen that afternoon, it was agreed that William, Ready, and Mr
Seagrave should all go down to the garden, and put in the potatoes.

Ready worked with the spade, while Mr Seagrave and William cut the
potatoes in pieces, so as to have an eye in each piece.  When they had
finished this work, Mr Seagrave said
That night Ready sat up for two or three hours working by candle-light
(William keeping him company), very busily engaged fitting up the
fishing-lines with leads and hooks.  At last two were complete
William, however, had made up his mind to do otherwise: he knew that his
mother would be very glad to have some fish, and he determined, as the
moon shone bright, to try if he could not catch some before he went to
bed; so he waited very quietly till he thought Ready was asleep as well
as the others, and then went out with the lines, and went down to the
beach, where he picked up three or four shells, and, breaking them
between two pieces of rock, took out the fish and baited his hooks.  He
then walked to the point.  It was a beautiful night; the water was very
smooth, and the moonbeams pierced deep below the surface.  William threw
in his line, and as soon as the lead touched the bottom he pulled it up
about a foot, as Ready had instructed him; and he had not held his line
more than half a minute, when it was jerked so forcibly, that not
expecting it he was nearly hauled into the water; as it was, the fish
was so strong that the line slipped through his hand and scored his
fingers; but after a time he was able to pull it in, and he landed on
the beach a large silver-scaled fish, weighing nine or ten pounds.  As
soon as he had dragged it so far away from the edge of the rocks as to
prevent its flapping into the water again, William took out the hook and
determined to try for another.  His line was down as short a time as
before, when it was again jerked with violence; but William was this
time prepared, and he let out the line and played the fish till it was
tired, and then pulled it up, and found that the second fish was even
larger than the first.  Satisfied with his success, he wound up his
lines, and, running a piece of string through the gills of the fish,
dragged them back to the tents, and hanged them to the pole, for fear of
the dogs eating them; he then went in, and was soon fast asleep.  The
next morning William was the first up, and showed his prizes with much
glee; but Ready was very much displeased with him
replied William
replied Ready
replied Ready
replied Mrs Seagrave.

Tommy clapped his hands and danced about, crying
and Juno said
After breakfast they all set out for the grove, where Ready had been
cutting down the trees, taking with them the wheels and axle, and a
couple of stout ropes.  Mr Seagrave and Ready cut down the trees and
slung them to the axle, and Juno and William dragged them to the spot
where the house was to be built.

They were not sorry when dinner was ready, for it was very hard work.

That night, tired as they were, Ready and William went out, and turned
eight more turtle.  They continued felling the cocoa-nut trees and
dragging the timber for the remainder of the week, when they considered
that they had nearly enough, and on Tuesday morning they commenced
building the house
Ready had cut out and prepared the door-posts and window-frames from
timber which he had towed round from the cove.  He now fixed four poles
in the earth upright at each corner, and then, with the assistance of
Mr Seagrave, notched every log of cocoa-nut wood on both sides, where
it was to meet with the one crossing it, so that, by laying log upon log
alternately, they fitted pretty close, and had only to have the chinks
between them filled in with cocoa-nut leaves twisted very tight, and
forced between them: this was the work of William and Juno when no more
logs were ready for carrying; and, by degrees, the house rose up from
its foundation.  The fireplace could not be made at once, as they had
either to find clay, or to burn shells into lime and build it up with
rocks and mortar; but a space was left for it.  For three weeks they
worked very hard: as soon as the sides were up, they got on the whole of
the roof and rafters; and then, with the broad leaves of the cocoa-nut
trees which had been cut down, Ready thatched it very strong and
securely.  At the end of the three weeks the house was secure from the
weather; and it was quite time, for the weather had begun to change, the
clouds now gathered thick, and the rainy season was commencing
said Ready to Mr Seagrave
The earth in the inside of the house was then beaten down hard, so as to
make a floor; and a sort of bedstead, about two feet from the ground,
running the whole length of the house, was raised on each side of the
interior: these were fitted with canvas screens to let down by night.
And then Ready and William took the last trip in the boat to fetch the
chairs and tables, which they did just before the coming on of the first
storm of the season.  The bedding and all the utensils were now taken
into the house; and a little outhouse was built up to cook in, until the
fireplace could be made.

It was late on the Saturday night that the family shifted into the new
house; and fortunate it was that they had no further occasion for delay,
for on the Sunday the first storm burst upon them; the wind blew with
great force; and, although they were shielded from it, still the
cocoa-nut trees ground and sawed each other's stems as they bent their
heads to its force.  The lightning was vivid, and the thunder appalling,
while the rain descended in a continual torrent.  The animals left the
pastures, and sheltered themselves in the grove; and, although noonday,
it was so dark that they could not see to read
said
Mrs Seagrave
observed Mr Seagrave
The morning service was then performed in the new house.  Violent as the
rain was, it did not penetrate through the thatch which had been put on.
Ready and William went out to secure the boat, which they were afraid
would be injured, and returned wet to the skin.  The storm continued
without intermission the whole of the night, but they slept dry and
safe; and, when awakened by the noise of the thunder and the pelting of
the rain, they thanked God that they had found a dwelling in the
wilderness upon which they had been cast
When they all rose up the next morning, the clouds had cleared off, and
the sun was shining bright.  Ready and Juno were the first out of the
house -- Ready with the telescope under his arm, which he always took with
him when he went his rounds, as he termed it, in the morning
said Ready
replied Juno, who had removed the branches
and stones, and was now on her knees blowing up the embers
said Ready
Ready whistled to the dogs, who came bounding out, and then set off on
his round of inspection.  He first directed his steps to the well in the
ravine; but, instead of the gushing spring and the limpid clear water,
with which the cask sunk for a well had been filled, there was now a
muddy torrent, rushing down the ravine, and the well was covered with
it, and not to be distinguished
said Ready, musing over the impetuous stream
Ready waded through, as
he wished to examine the turtle-pond, which was on the other side of the
stream.  Finding all right, he again crossed the water, where it was now
spread wide over the sandy beach, until he came to the other point where
he had moored his boat, both by the head and stern, with a rope, and a
heavy stone made fast to it, as an anchor.

From this point, as usual, he surveyed the horizon with his telescope;
not that he thought that there was a chance of a vessel arriving among
these islands; but, still, as it was possible, he took the trouble; but
never except when he went out in the morning alone, as he was aware that
the very circumstance of his so doing would make Mr Seagrave melancholy
and unsettled.  As usual, he dropped the telescope on his arm, after his
survey, saying to himself
The gale having blown offshore, the boat had dragged her moorings, and
was so far out that Ready could not get at her
said the old man
Ready took the halyards and sheets belonging to the
boat's sails, which he had left on the beach, and bent one on to the
other until he had sufficient length of rope.  He then made a piece of
wood, about two feet long, fast by the middle to the end of the rope,
and, after one or two attempts, contrived to throw it into the boat.
The piece of wood caught under one of the thwarts, and this enabled him
to draw the boat to the shore.

Having baled out the water which had fallen into her during the storm,
he then landed again and examined the garden
said Ready
continued
he; and the dogs, who appeared to know what he was in search of, went
away in pursuit, and soon found the sheep and two of the goats, but the
third goat was not with them
muttered Ready, stopping a little
while; at last he heard a bleat, in a small copse of brushwood, to which
he directed his steps, followed by the dogs
said
he, as he perceived Nanny lying down in the copse with two new-born kids
at her side
said he, taking one up under each arm
Ready walked back to the house, and brought in the kids, followed by
Nanny.  He found Mr and Mrs Seagrave and the children all dressed.
Caroline and Tommy gave a scream of delight when they saw the little
kids, and even little Albert clapped his hands.  As soon as Ready put
them down on the ground, Tommy and Caroline had each their arms round
one
said Ready
As soon as the children could be persuaded to part with the kids, Nanny
was tied up in a corner, and was very content with fondling and nursing
her progeny.  Juno and William brought in the breakfast, and as soon as
it was over, Mr Seagrave said
said Mrs Seagrave
replied
Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
said Tommy, getting on his feet
said Ready
continued Ready
As so many cocoa-nut trees had been cut down to build the house, there
were plenty of boughs lying in every direction, and William and Mr
Seagrave had soon procured sufficient.  In a very short time the boat
was drawn up about ten yards from the water's edge, which Ready said was
quite sufficient; they then dug from under with their shovels until the
boat was sunk about half down in the sand.

Having filled in the sand all round her up to her gunnel, the boat was
then carefully covered over with the boughs, which were weighed down
with sand that they might not be blown away
observed William
replied William
said Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave and William were very fortunate; before the two hours were
expired they had caught eight large fish, which they brought up to the
house slung on the boat-hook.  Tommy hallooed loudly for fish for
dinner, and as they had caught so many, it was agreed that the dinner
should be put off until some could be got ready, and they were not sorry
to eat them instead of salt pork.

They had hardly sat down to table, when the rain came pattering down on
the roof, and in a quarter of an hour the storm was as violent, and the
thunder and lightning as terrific as on the day before.  All outdoor
labour was again suspended.  Mrs Seagrave, Juno, and Caroline took
their work, for there was plenty to do with the needle and thread, and
Ready soon found employment for the rest.  William and Mr Seagrave
unlaid some thick rope, that Ready might make smaller and more useful
rope with the yarns.  Ready took up his sailing needles, and worked
eyelet-holes in the canvas screens (which they had put up in a hurry),
so that they might be drawn to and fro as required.

As soon as Ready had hung up the curtains, he looked under the bedsteads
for a large bundle, and said, as he opened it
The bundle was composed of the ship's ensign, which was red,
and a large, square, yellow flag with the name of the ship _Pacific_ in
large black letters upon it.  These two flags Ready festooned and tied
up round the bed-place, so as to give it a very gay appearance, and also
to hide the rough walls of the cottage
said Mrs Seagrave, when he
had finished
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave, thoughtfully
said William, after the candles were lighted
Ready then commenced his history as follows:

HISTORY OF OLD READY
inquired William
inquired Mr Seagrave
observed Mr Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
continued Ready
replied William
replied Ready
said William
said Mr Seagrave
observed Mrs Seagrave
The bleating of the kids woke them the next morning earlier than usual.
The weather was again fine, and the sun shining brightly, and Ready
turned out Nanny and her progeny.  They had an excellent breakfast of
fried fish, and then Mr Seagrave, Ready, and William went out to their
work: the two first took down the tents, and spread the canvas on the
ground, that it might be well dried, while William went in pursuit of
the fowls, which had not been seen for a day or two.  After
half-an-hour's search in the cocoa-nut grove, he heard the cock crow,
and soon afterwards found them all.  He threw them some split peas,
which he had brought with him.  They were hungry enough and followed him
home to the house, where he left them and went to join Ready and his
father
said Ready
Mr Seagrave assented, and they set immediately to work.  There were
many thin poles left, the tops of the cocoa-nut trees which had been cut
down to build the house; these they nailed to the trunks of the four
trees, so as to make a square, and then they ran up rafters for a
pitched roof
After their meal the work was renewed; Mr Seagrave collected the
branches while William and Ready worked upon the sides and roof, and
before the evening closed in, the fowl-house was complete.  William
enticed the fowls down to it with some more split peas, and then walked
away
said William
By the time that they had folded
up the canvas, and William had brought in Nanny and the kids, the sun
had set, and they went into the house.  Ready was requested to go on
with his history, which he did as follows
observed Mrs
Seagrave
Old Ready left off for some little time, and the remainder of the party
kept silence.  Then he said
The next morning was fine, and as soon as breakfast was over, they took
the wheels down to the turtle-pond, and Ready having speared one of the
largest by means of a pike with a barb to it, which he had made on
purpose, they hauled it on shore, slung it under the wheels, and took it
up to the house.  Having killed the turtle, and cut it up, Juno, under
the directions of Ready, chose such portions as were required for the
soup; and when the pot was on the fire, Ready, Mr Seagrave, and William
set off with the cross-cut saw and hatchets, to commence felling the
cocoa-nut trees for the building of the outhouse, which was to hold
their stores, as soon as they could be brought round from the other side
of the island
observed
Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave agreed, and Ready continued
As soon as they had planned the building, the axes and saw were in full
use, and tree after tree fell one upon the other.  They worked hard till
dinner-time, and were not sorry at the prospect of sitting down to a
rich mess of turtle-soup
said Mrs Seagrave
replied William
replied Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave, gravely
said Tommy, whimpering
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave.

Master Tommy began to cry at this intelligence.  Juno appeared with the
turtle-soup; and Tommy cried louder when they had said grace and
commenced their dinner.  They were all very hungry, and William sent his
plate for another portion, which he had not commenced long before he put
his finger in his mouth and pulled out something
cried William
said Ready, smiling
replied William
said Mr Seagrave
observed Ready
Tommy was glad the lecture was over, and more glad to get his
turtle-soup; he finished one plate, and, as he asked for another, he
said
After dinner they went to their work again, and did not come in again
till sunset
observed Ready
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
said William
said Mrs
Seagrave
said Mrs Seagrave
A heavy storm came on soon after they had retired to rest; the lightning
was so vivid that its flashes penetrated through the chinks of the door
and windows, and the thunder burst upon them with a noise which
prevented them obtaining any sleep.  The children cried and trembled as
they lay in the arms of Mrs Seagrave and Juno, who were almost as much
alarmed themselves
said Mr Seagrave to Ready, for they had both
risen from their beds
exclaimed Mr Seagrave.

As he spoke, they were both thrown back half-stunned; a crash of thunder
burst over the house, which shook everything in it; a sulphurous smell
pervaded the building, and soon afterwards, when they recovered their
feet, they perceived that the house was full of smoke, and they heard
the wailing of the women and the shrieks of the children in the
bed-places on the other side
exclaimed Ready, who was the first to recover
himself, and who now attempted to ascertain the injury which had been
done
exclaimed Mr Seagrave
cried Mrs Seagrave
Juno answered not.  William darted to the other side of the house, and
found Juno lying on her side, motionless
cried William
said Ready, who
had lifted up the poor girl
They carried Juno out of the house, and laid her on the ground; the rain
poured down in torrents.

Ready left them for a minute, to ascertain if the house was on fire; he
found that it had been in flames at the further corner, but the rain had
extinguished it.  He then went back to Mr Seagrave and William, who
were with Juno
said Ready
William and Mr Seagrave returned to the house; they found Mrs Seagrave
fainting with anxiety and fear.  The information they brought, that Juno
was not killed by the lightning, did much to restore her.  William
soothed little Albert, and Tommy in a few minutes was fast asleep again
in his father's arms.  The storm now abated, and as the day began to
break, Ready appeared with Juno, who was sufficiently recovered to be
able to walk in with his support; she was put into her bed, and then
Ready and Mr Seagrave went to examine if further mischief had been
done.  The lightning had come in at the further end of the house, at the
part where the fireplace was intended to have been made
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
said
Mr Seagrave
It was now broad daylight.  Mrs Seagrave dressed herself and the
children, and as soon as she was ready, Mr Seagrave read such portions
of the Psalms as were appropriate, and they earnestly joined in a prayer
of thankfulness and humility.  William went out to prepare the
breakfast, and Ready procured the coil of copper wire from those stores
which were stowed under the bed-places.  This he unrolled, and stretched
it out straight, and then went for the ladder, which was at the outhouse
they had commenced building.  As soon as breakfast was over, Ready and
Mr Seagrave went out again to fix up the lightning-conductor, leaving
William to do the work of Juno, who still remained fast asleep in her
bed
said Ready
Ready put his ladder against one of the trees, and, taking with him the
hammer and a bag of large spike-nails, drove one of the nails into the
trunk of the tree till it was deep enough in to bear his weight; he then
drove in another above it, and so he continued to do, standing upon one
of them while he drove in another above, till he had reached the top of
the tree, close to the boughs; he then descended, and, leaving the
hammer behind him, took up a saw and small axe, and in about ten minutes
he had cut off the head of the cocoa-nut tree, which remained a tall,
bare pole
said Mr Seagrave anxiously
replied Ready
Ready came down again, and then cut down a small pole, to fix with a
thick piece of pointed wire at the top of it, on the head of the
cocoa-nut tree.  He then went up, lashed the small pole to the head of
the tree, made the end of the copper wire fast to the pointed wire, and
then he descended.  The other tree near to it was then cut down, and the
lower end of the wire buried in the ground at the bottom of the tree on
which the lightning-conductor had been fixed
said Ready, wiping his face, for he was
warm with the work
replied Mr Seagrave
said his father
observed the old man
Juno was now up again, and said that she was quite well, with the
exception of a headache.  As Ready had predicted, the rain now came on
again with great violence, and it was impossible to do any work out of
doors.  At the request of William he continued his narrative.

NARRATIVE OF OLD READY
observed Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
said
William
As Ready had predicted, the weather set in fine after the violent storm
of which we have made mention.  For a fortnight, with little
intermission, it continued fine, and during that time, Ready, Mr
Seagrave, and William worked from daylight till dusk at the storehouse,
which they were so anxious to complete, and were so tired when their
work was over, that even William did not ask Ready to go on with his
history.  At last the storehouse was complete, thatched and wattled in
on three sides, leaving one open for ventilation; the lower part, which
had been arranged for the folding of the stock at night and during the
rainy season, was also wattled in with cocoa-nut boughs on three sides,
and made a very comfortable retreat for the animals.  The winding path
to the storehouse was also cut through the cocoa-nut grove, but the
stumps were not removed, as they could not spare the time.  All the
stores that they had brought round were put into the storehouse, and
they were now ready to take up some other job.  It was, however, agreed
that, on the day after the building was finished, they should all have a
day's holiday, which they certainly did require.  William caught some
fish, a turtle was speared and wheeled up to the house; and they not
only had a holiday, but a feast.  Mr Seagrave and William had been
walking on the beach with Mrs Seagrave and the children, while Ready
was assisting Juno in cutting up the turtle; they had shown Mrs
Seagrave the storehouse, and the goats with the four kids had been led
there, as there was no longer any occasion for them to remain in the
house.  The weather was beautiful, and they agreed to go and examine the
garden.  They found that the seeds had not yet commenced sprouting,
notwithstanding the heavy rains
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
said Mrs Seagrave
continued she
said William
replied Mr Seagrave
said Mr
Seagrave, turning to William
replied Mr Seagrave
continued Mr Seagrave
replied William
observed Ready
said William, after a pause in the conversation
said William
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
There was a silence for a few moments, when William said
replied Mr Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave, after breakfast
said William
The whole of that day was employed in piling up the cocoa-nut branches
and wood.  Ready made a square stack, like a haystack, with a gable top,
over which he tied the long branches, so that the rain would pour off
it
said Ready, as he came down the ladder
Mr Seagrave sighed and looked grave; Ready observed it, and said
replied Mr
Seagrave
After supper, Ready, being requested by William, continued his
narrative
said Mr Seagrave
The fishpond was commenced the next morning.  Ready, Mr Seagrave, and
William went down together to the beach, and, after much examination,
chose a spot about one hundred yards from the turtle-pond as most
eligible for the purpose; the water being shallow, so that at the part
farthest from the shore there would not be more than three feet
said Ready
said William
Ready soon returned with the wheels, and the tub slung with rope on the
axle, and by that means they found that they could collect the stones
very fast; Mr Seagrave and William bringing them, and Ready in the
water, building up the wall
observed Ready
said William
said Mr Seagrave
said William
replied Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
William made no reply, but it was evident that he was annoyed at the
idea of not being of the party.  They worked very hard that day, and the
walls rose fast out of the water.

After supper, Ready continued his narrative
said Mrs Seagrave
said William
The construction of the fish-pond proceeded rapidly, and on the third
day it was nearly complete.  As soon as all the walls were finished,
Ready threw out sand and shingle, so as to make the part next to the
beach nearly as deep as the other; so that there might be sufficient
water to prevent the gulls and man-of-war birds from darting down, and
striking the fish.  While Ready was thus employed, Mr Seagrave and
William collected more rocks, so as to divide the pond into four parts,
at the same time allowing a communication between each part.  These
inside walls, as well as the outside, were made of sufficient width to
walk upon; by which means they would have all the fish within reach of
the spear, in case they wished to take them out.  The day after the pond
was completed the weather changed.  The rain poured down with great
force, but it was not accompanied with such terrific thunder and
lightning, nor were the storms of so long continuance, as at the
commencement of the rainy season.  In the intervals of fine weather they
caught a great many fish, which they put into the pond, so that it was
well stocked.  But a circumstance occurred, which was the occasion of
great alarm to them all; which was, that one evening William was taken
with a shivering, and complained very much of a pain in his head.  Ready
had promised to continue his narrative on that evening, but William was
too ill to sit up.  He was put into bed, and the next morning he was in
a violent fever.  Mr Seagrave was much alarmed, as the symptoms were
worse every hour; and Ready, who had sat up with him during the night,
called Mr Seagrave out of the house, and said
The poor boy was for many days in great danger; and the cheerful house
was now one of gloom and silence.  How fervent were now the morning and
evening prayers; how often during the day did his parents offer up a
petition to heaven for their dear boy's recovery.  The weather became
finer every day, and it was almost impossible to keep Tommy quiet: Juno
went out with him and Albert every morning, and kept them with her while
she cooked; and, fortunately, Vixen had some young ones, and when Juno
could no longer amuse them, she brought them two of the puppies to play
with.  As for the quiet, meek little Caroline, she would remain during
the whole day holding her mother's hand, and watching her brother, or
working with her needle by the side of his bed.

Ready, who could not be idle, had taken the hammer and cold chisel to
make the salt-pan, at which he worked during those portions of the day
in which his services were not required indoors; and as he sat chipping
away the rock, his thoughts were ever upon William, for he dearly loved
the boy for his amiable disposition and his cleverness; and many a time
during the day would he stop his work, and the tears would run down his
cheeks as he offered up his petition to the Almighty that the boy might
be spared to his afflicted parents.  And those prayers were heard, for
on the ninth day William was pronounced by Ready and Mr Seagrave to
have much less fever, and shortly afterwards it left him altogether; but
he was so weak that he could not raise himself in his bed for two or
three days; and it was not till more than a fortnight after the fever
had left him that he could go out of the house.  The joy that was
expressed by them all when the change took place may be imagined: nor
were the thanksgivings less fervent than had been the prayers.

During his convalescence, as there was nothing else to do, Mr Seagrave
and Ready, who now went gladly to their work, determined, as the
salt-pan was finished, that they would make a bathing-place.  Juno came
to their assistance, and was very useful in assisting to drag the wheels
which brought the rocks and stones; and Tommy was also brought down,
that he might be out of the way while Mrs Seagrave and Caroline watched
the invalid.  By the time that William was able to go out of the house,
the bathing-place was finished, and there was no longer any fear of the
sharks.  William came down to the beach with his mother, and looked at
the work which had been done; he was much pleased with it, and said
said
William, after they had taken their supper
replied Ready
The next morning, as there was no particular work on hand, Ready and Mr
Seagrave took the lines to add to the stock of the fish-pond.  As the
weather was fine and cool, William accompanied them, that he might have
the benefit of the fresh air.  As they passed the garden, they observed
that the seeds sown had already sprung up an inch or two above the
ground, and that, apparently none of them had missed.  While Ready and
Mr Seagrave were fishing, and William sitting near them, William said
to his father
said Ready
replied Ready
observed Ready
said Ready
said Ready
They returned home, and after supper Ready went on with his narrative
replied Ready
observed Mr Seagrave
observed Mrs Seagrave
Ready appeared so much affected, that Mr Seagrave proposed that he
should leave off his history for the present
A few mornings afterwards, Juno came in before breakfast with six eggs
in her apron, which she had found in the hen-house
replied William
For a few days Mr Seagrave and Ready were employed at the garden
clearing away the weeds, which had begun to sprout up along with the
seeds which had been sown; during which time William recovered very
fast.  The two first days, Juno brought in three or four eggs regularly;
but on the third day there were none to be found.  On the fourth day the
hens appeared also not to have laid, much to the surprise of Mrs
Seagrave; as when hens commence laying eggs they usually continue.  On
the fifth morning, when they sat down to breakfast, Master Tommy did not
make his appearance, and Mrs Seagrave asked where he was
said Old Ready, laughing
said Mrs Seagrave
said Mr
Seagrave
replied Mrs Seagrave
Mr Seagrave, Ready, and William, as usual, went down to their work;
Mrs Seagrave and Juno, with little Caroline, were busy indoors.  Tommy
remained very quiet for an hour, when he commenced roaring; but it was
of no use, no one paid any attention to him.  At dinner-time he began to
roar again, but with as little success: it was not till the evening that
the door of the hen-house was opened, and Tommy permitted to come out.
He looked very foolish; and sat down in a corner without speaking
said Ready
said the urchin
replied Mr Seagrave
Tommy waited very quietly and very sulkily till supper was ready, when
he made up for lost time.  After which Ready continued his narrative
said William
said Mr Seagrave
continued Ready
For several days after, they were employed in clearing away the stumps
of the cocoa-nut trees in the winding path to the storehouse; and as
soon as that work was finished, Ready put up a lightning-conductor at
the side of the storehouse, like the one which he had put up near to the
cottage.  They had now got through all the work that they had arranged
to do during the rainy season.  The ewes had lambed, but both the sheep
and the goats began to suffer for want of pasture.  For a week they had
no rain, and the sun burst out very powerfully; and Ready was of opinion
that the rainy season was now over.  William had become quite strong
again, and he was very impatient that they should commence the survey of
the island.  After a great deal of consultation, it was at last settled,
that Ready and William should make the first survey to the southward,
and then return and report what they had discovered.  This was decided
upon on the Saturday evening, and on the Monday morning they were to
start.  The knapsacks were got ready, and well filled with boiled salt
pork, and flat cakes of bread.  They were each to have a musket and
ammunition, and a blanket was folded up to carry on the shoulders, that
they might sleep on it at night.  Ready did not forget his compass, or
the small axes, for them to blaze the trees as they went through the
wood.

The whole of Saturday was occupied in making their preparations.  After
supper, Ready said
replied Mr Seagrave
They were all up early the next morning, and breakfasted at an early
hour.  The knapsacks and guns, and the other requisites for the journey,
were all prepared; William and Ready rose from the table, and taking an
affectionate leave of Mr and Mrs Seagrave, they started on their
journey.  The sun was shining brilliantly, and the weather had become
warm; the ocean in the distance gleamed brightly, as its waters danced,
and the cocoa-nut trees moved their branches gracefully to the breeze.
They set off in high spirits, and having called the two shepherd dogs,
and driven back Vixen, who would have joined the party, they passed the
storehouse, and ascending the hill on the other side, they got their
hatchets ready to blaze the trees; and Ready having set his course by
his pocket compass, they were fairly on their way.  For some time they
continued to cut the bark of the trees with their hatchets, without
speaking, and then Ready stopped again to look at his compass
observed William
For half-an-hour they continued their way through the wood, and, as
Ready had observed, the trees became more distant from each other;
still, however, they could not see anything before them but the stems of
the cocoa-nuts.  It was hard work, chopping the trees every second, and
their foreheads were moist with the exertion
replied William, wiping his face with his handkerchief
They continued their way, and had not walked for more than a quarter of
an hour, when William cried out
In ten minutes more they were clear of the cocoa-nut grove, and found
themselves among brushwood higher than their heads; so that they could
not see how far they were from the shore
said William, throwing down his hatchet
replied Ready, sitting down by the side of
William
They opened their knapsacks, and made their meal, the two dogs coming in
for their share; after which they again started on their discoveries.
For about ten minutes they continued to force their way through the
thick and high bushes, till at last they broke out clear of them, and
then looked around them for a short time without speaking.  The sea was
about half a mile distant, and the intervening land was clear, with
fresh blades of grass just bursting out of the earth, composing a fine
piece of pasture of at least fifty acres, here and there broken with
small patches of trees and brushwood; there was no sandy beach, but the
rocks rose from the sea about twenty to thirty feet high, and were in
one or two places covered with something which looked as white as snow
said William
replied Ready
When they arrived at the clump of trees which
Ready had pointed out, he said
said William, pulling off a piece
of it, and showing it to Ready
William pulled a branch of the plant off, and carried it with him.  On
their arrival at the next patch of trees, Ready looked at them
steadfastly for some time
said he
said William
said
William
replied Ready
As soon as they came under the trees, there was a great rioting and
fluttering, and then away flew, screaming as loud as they could, a flock
of about three hundred parrots, their beautiful green and blue feathers
glistening in the beams of the sun
At this moment the dogs dashed among the broad yam leaves, and commenced
baying; there was a great rustling and snorting
cried William, who had been stooping down to examine the
yam plant, and who was startled at the noise.

Ready laughed heartily
replied William
Ready gave a shout, and a grunting and rushing were heard among the
broad leaves, and, very soon, out rushed, instead of the six, about
thirty pigs large and small; who, snorting and twisting their tails,
galloped away at a great rate, until they gained the cocoa-nut grove
said William
As they neared the rocks, which were bare for about fifty yards from the
water's edge, Ready said
They soon arrived at the spot, and found it white with the feathers of
birds, mixed up with dirt
Then they walked along the sea-side for about a quarter of a mile, until
they came to where the rocks were not so high, and there they discovered
a little basin, completely formed in the rocks, with a narrow entrance
said William, pointing in the
direction
replied
William
said William
They found out the spot where they had left their knapsacks and
hatchets, and again took their path through the cocoa-nut trees,
following the blaze which they had made in the morning.  One hour before
sunset they arrived at the house, where they found Mr and Mrs Seagrave
sitting outside, and Juno standing on the beach with the two children,
who were amusing themselves with picking up the shells which were
strewed about.  William gave a very clear account of all they had seen,
and showed his father the specimens of the plants which he had
collected
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
replied Mr
Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
As soon as they had returned to the house, a consultation was held as to
their future proceedings; and, after some debate, it was agreed that it
would be advisable that they should take the boat out of the sand; and,
as soon as it was ready, examine the reef on the southward, to see if
they could find a passage through it, as it would take a long while to
go round it; and, as soon as that was accomplished, Mr Seagrave, Ready,
William, and Juno should all go through the wood, carrying with them a
tent to pitch on the newly-discovered piece of ground: and that they
should set up a flag-staff at the little harbour, to point out its
position.  Of course, that would be a hard day's work; but that they
would, nevertheless, return the same night, and not leave Mrs Seagrave
alone with the children.  Having accomplished this, Ready and William
would then put the wheels and axle in the boat, and other articles
required, such as saw, hatchets, and spades, and row round to the south
side of the island, to find the little harbour.  As soon as they had
landed them, and secured the boat, they would then return by the path
through the wood.

The next job would be to rail in the yam plantation to keep off the
pigs, and, at the same time, to drive the sheep and goats through the
wood, that they might feed on the new pasture ground.  Ready and William
were then to cut down cocoa-nut trees sufficient for the paling, fix up
the posts, and when that was done, Mr Seagrave was to come to them and
assist them in railing it in, and drawing the timber.  This they
expected would be all done in about a month; and during that time, as
Mrs Seagrave and Juno would be, for the greatest part of it, left at
the house, they were to employ themselves in clearing the garden of
weeds, and making preparation for fencing it in.

As soon as this important work had been completed, the boat would return
to the bay with a load of prickly pears for the garden fence, and then
they were to direct their attention to the stores which had been saved
from the wreck, and were lying in the cove where they had first landed.
When they had examined them, and brought round what were required, and
secured them in the storehouse, they would then have a regular survey of
the island by land and by water.  But man proposes and God disposes, as
will be shown by the interruption of their intended projects which we
shall have to narrate in the ensuing chapter
As usual, Ready was the first up on the following morning, and having
greeted Juno, who followed him out of the house, he set off on his
accustomed rounds, to examine into the stock and their other
possessions.  He was standing in the garden at the point.  First he
thought that it would be necessary to get ready some sticks for the
peas, which were now seven or eight inches out of the ground; he had
proceeded a little farther, to where the calivances, or French haricot
beans, had been sown, and had decided upon the propriety of hoeing up
the earth round them, as they were a very valuable article of food, that
would keep, and afford many a good dish during the rainy or winter
season.  He had gone on to ascertain if the cucumber seeds had shown
themselves above-ground, and was pleased to find that they were doing
well.  He said to himself
and then he raised his eyes and looked out to
the offing, and, as usual, scanned the horizon.  He thought he saw a
ship to the north-east, and he applied his telescope to his eye.  He was
not mistaken -- it was a vessel.

The old man's heart beat quick; he dropped his telescope on his arm, and
fetched some heavy breaths before he could recover from the effect of
this unexpected sight.  After a minute, he again put his telescope to
his eye, and then made her out to be a brig, under top-sails and
top-gallant sails, steering directly for the island.

Ready walked to the rocky point, from which they fished, and sat down to
reflect.  Could it be that the vessel had been sent after them, or that
she had by mere chance come among the islands?  He decided after a short
time that it must be chance, for none could know that they were saved,
much less that they were on the island.  Her steering towards the island
must then be either that she required water or something else; perhaps
she would alter her course and pass by them
thought
the old man
Ready rose, examined the vessel with his telescope, and then walked
towards the house.  William was up, and the remainder of the family were
stirring
said Ready to him, as they walked away from the house
William readily gave his promise
William stared at Ready, and for a moment could not speak, his
excitement was so great
Ready caught the vessel in the field of the telescope, which he leant
against the trunk of a cocoa-nut, and William put his eye to the glass
William and Ready went to the storehouse for the axe.  Ready selected a
very slight cocoa-nut tree nearest to the beach, which he cut down, and
as soon as the top was taken off with the assistance of William he
carried it down to the point
During breakfast-time, Ready observed that he intended to get the boat
out of the sand, and that William should assist him
said Mr Seagrave
observed Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
Ready and William took down the canvas screens and flags, and went out
of the cottage with them; they spread out the canvas at some distance
from the house, and then William went down to the beach with the flags,
while Ready procured the block and small rope to hoist them up with.

Ready's stratagem answered well.  Without being perceived by those in
the cottage, the flag-staff was raised, and fixed in the ground, and the
flags all ready for hoisting; then Ready and William returned to the
fuel-stack, and each carried down as much stuff as they could hold, that
they might make a smoke to attract the notice of those on board of the
vessel.  All this did not occupy much more than an hour, during which
the brig continued her course steadily towards the island.  When Ready
first saw her the wind was light, but latterly the breeze had increased
very much, and at last the brig took in her top-gallant sails.  The
horizon behind the vessel, which had been quite clear, was now banked up
with clouds, and the waves curled in white foam over the reefs of rocks
extending from the island
said Ready
replied William
William and Ready hoisted up the ensign first, and below it the flag,
with the ship's name, Pacific, in large letters upon it
said Ready, as he made fast the halyards
As soon as the cocoa-nut leaves were lighted, Ready and William threw
water upon them, so as to damp them and procure a heavy column of smoke.
The vessel approached rapidly, and they were watching her in silent
suspense, when they perceived Mr and Mrs Seagrave, Juno carrying
Albert, with Tommy and Caroline running down as fast as they could to
the beach.  The fact was, that Tommy, tired of work, had gone out of the
house and walked towards the beach; there he perceived, first, the flags
hoisted, and then he detected the vessel off the island.  He immediately
ran back to the house, crying out
At this announcement, Mr and Mrs
Seagrave ran out of the house, perceived the vessel and the flags
flying, and ran as fast as they could down to where William and Ready
were standing by the flag-staff
exclaimed Mr
Seagrave
replied Ready
Mrs Seagrave dropped down on the rock, and burst into tears.  Mr
Seagrave was equally excited
exclaimed he at last
replied Ready
said William
exclaimed Mrs Seagrave
cried William, throwing up his hat
Mr Seagrave embraced his wife, who threw herself sobbing into his arms,
kissed his children with rapture, and wrung old Ready's hand.  He was
almost frantic with joy.  William was equally delighted.

As soon as they were a little more composed, Ready observed
said Mrs Seagrave
The brig had, in the meantime, kept away again, as if she was running
in; but very soon afterwards she hauled to the wind, with her head to
the northward, and stood away from the island
exclaimed William, mournfully
said Mr Seagrave, with indignation
replied Ready
No reply was made to Ready's judicious remarks.  The Seagraves only saw
that the vessel was leaving them, and their hearts sank.  They watched
her in silence, and as she gradually diminished to the view, so did
their hopes depart from them.  The wind was now fierce, and a heavy
squall, with rain, obscured the offing, and the vessel was no longer to
be distinguished.  Mr Seagrave turned to his wife, and mournfully
offered her his arm.  They walked away from the beach without speaking;
the remainder of the party, with the exception of old Ready, followed
them.  Ready remained some time with his eyes in the direction where the
vessel was last seen.  At last he hauled down the ensign and flag, and,
throwing them over his shoulder, followed the disconsolate party to the
house
When Ready arrived, he found them all plunged in such deep distress,
that he did not consider it advisable to say anything.  The evening
closed in; it was time to retire.  The countenance of Mr Seagrave was
not only gloomy, but morose.  The hour for retiring to rest had long
passed when Ready broke the silence by saying
replied Mr Seagrave, rising up
impatiently
Mrs Seagrave rose, and retired behind the canvas screen.  Her husband
seemed as if he was about to follow her, when Ready, without speaking,
laid the Bible on the table before him.  Mr Seagrave did not appear to
notice it; but William touched his father's arm, pointed to the book,
and then went inside of the screen, and led out his mother
exclaimed Mr Seagrave
said Mrs Seagrave, bursting into tears.

Mr Seagrave opened the Bible, and read the psalm.  As soon as he had
closed the book
were all the words that passed, and they
all retired to rest.

During the night, the wind howled and the rain beat down.  The children
slept soundly, but Mr and Mrs Seagrave, Ready, and William were awake
during the whole of the night, listening to the storm, and occupied with
their own thoughts.

Ready was dressed before daylight, and out on the beach before the sun
had risen.  The gale was at its height; and after a careful survey with
his telescope, he could see nothing of the vessel.  He remained on the
beach till breakfast-time, when he was summoned by William, and returned
to the house.  He found Mr and Mrs Seagrave up, and more composed than
they were the evening before; and they welcomed him warmly
said Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
The gale continued during the day, and showed no symptoms of abatement,
when they again retired for the night.  The following day Ready was up
early, as usual, and William accompanied him to the beach
exclaimed William, pointing to the south-east part of
the reef
Ready put his telescope to his eye
They hastened along the beach to the spot nearest to where the canoe was
tossing on the surf, and watched it as it approached the shore
and Ready again looked through his telescope
replied William
During this conversation the canoe had rapidly come towards the land.
In a moment or two afterwards, it passed through the surf and grounded
on the beach.  The two people in it had just strength enough left to
paddle through the surf, and then they dropped down in the bottom of the
canoe, quite exhausted
While dragging it up, Ready observed that the occupants were both women:
their faces were tattooed all over; otherwise they were young, and might
have been good-looking
William soon returned with some thin oatmeal porridge, which Juno had
been preparing for breakfast; and a few spoonfuls being forced down the
throats of the two natives they gradually revived.  William then left
Ready, and went up to acquaint his father and mother with this
unexpected event.

William soon returned with Mr Seagrave, and as the women were now able
to sit up, they hauled up the canoe as far as they could, to prevent her
being beat to pieces.  They found nothing in the canoe, except a piece
of matting and the two paddles which had been used by the natives
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
Mr Seagrave turned away.  After a pause he said
observed Ready
Ready then beckoned to them to get on their feet, which they both did,
although with some difficulty.  He then went in advance, making a sign
for them to follow; they understood him, and made the attempt, but were
so weak, that they would have fallen if they had not been supported by
Mr Seagrave and William.

It required a long time for them to arrive at the house.  Mrs Seagrave,
who knew what had happened, received them very kindly, and Juno had a
mess ready, which she put before them.  They ate a little and then lay
down, and were soon sound asleep
observed Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
We must now pass over a space of fifteen days, in which there was
nothing done.  The expectation of the vessel returning was still alive,
although each day decreased these hopes.  Every morning Ready and
William were at the beach with the telescope, and the whole of the day
was passed in surmises, hopes, and fears.  In fact, the appearance of
the vessel and the expectation of leaving the island had completely
overturned all the regularity and content of our island party.  No other
subject was broached -- not any of the work proposed was begun, as it was
useless to do anything if they were to leave the island.  After the
first week had passed, they felt that every day their chances were more
adverse, and at the end of the fortnight all hopes were very unwillingly
abandoned.

The Indian women had, in the meantime, recovered their fatigues, and
appeared to be very mild and tractable.  Whatever they were able to do,
they did cheerfully, and had already gained a few words of English.  The
party to explore was again talked over, and arranged for the following
Monday, when a new misfortune fell on them, which disconcerted all their
arrangements.

On the Saturday morning, when Ready, as usual, went his rounds, as he
walked along the beach, he perceived that the Indian canoe was missing.
It had been hauled up clear of the water, so that it could not have
floated away.  Ready's heart misgave him; he looked through his
telescope in the direction of the large island, and thought he could
distinguish a speck on the water at a great distance.  As he was thus
occupied, William came down to him
said Ready
William in a few minutes returned, breathless, stating that the women
were not to be found, and that they had evidently carried away with them
a quantity of the large nails and other pieces of iron which were in the
small kegs in the storehouse
They communicated the intelligence to Mr Seagrave when they were
outside.  He at once perceived their danger, so they held a council, and
came to the following resolutions:--

That it would be necessary that they should immediately stockade the
storehouse, so as to render it impossible for any one to get in; and
that, as soon as the fortification was complete, the storehouse should
be turned into their dwelling-house; and such stores as could not be put
within the stockade should be removed to their present house, or
concealed in the cocoa-nut grove.

It was decided that nothing should be begun on that day, Saturday; that
Sunday should be spent in devout prayer for help and encouragement from
the Almighty, who would do towards them as his wisdom should ordain; and
that on Monday, with the blessing of God, they would recommence their
labour
said Mrs
Seagrave
exclaimed Mr
Seagrave
But although they resolved as stated in the last chapter, nothing was
done.  Finally, one morning at sunrise, as they were looking round with
the telescope, close to the turtle-pond, Masterman Ready said to Mr
Seagrave
exclaimed Mr Seagrave, covering up his face
replied William
said Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
said Mr Seagrave, sitting down upon a rock
replied Mr Seagrave
said Ready
said William
said Mr Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
They then rose, and walked towards the house; all felt relieved in their
minds, after they had made this arrangement, satisfied that they would
be using all human endeavours to ward off the danger which threatened
them, and might then put their confidence in that Providence who would,
if he thought fit, protect them in their need
The subject was introduced to Mrs Seagrave, while they were at
breakfast, and as she perceived how much more secure they would be, she
cheerfully consented.  In less than an hour afterwards, William and
Ready had prepared the boat, and were pulling out among the rocks of the
reef to find a passage, which, after a short time, and by keeping two or
three cables from the point, they succeeded in doing
observed Ready
replied William
They soon were on the south side of the island, and pulling up along the
shore
observed William, after a long silence
said William, pointing
They did so; and, to their satisfaction, found that they were in the
harbour, where the water was as smooth as a pond
Ready handed the boat-hook to William, who, lowering it down into the
water, drove the spike of iron at the end of it into a large crayfish,
which he hauled up into the boat
said Ready
They stepped the mast, and as soon as they had pulled the boat clear of
the harbour, set sail, and in less than an hour had rejoined the party
at the house.

William had brought up the crayfish, which had only one claw, and Juno
put on another pot of water to boil it, as an addition to the dinner,
which was nearly ready.  Tommy at first went with his sister Caroline to
look at the animal, and as soon as he had left off admiring it, he
began, as usual, to tease it; first he poked its eyes with a stick, then
he tried to unfold his tail, but the animal flapped, and he ran away.
At last he was trying to put his stick into the creature's mouth, when
it raised its large claw, and caught him by the wrist, squeezing him so
tight that Tommy screamed and danced about as the crayfish held on.
Fortunately for him, the animal had been so long out of water, and had
been so much hurt by the iron spike of the boat-hook, that it was more
than half-dead, or he would have been severely hurt.  Ready ran to him,
and disengaged the crayfish; but Tommy was so frightened, that he took
to his heels, and did not leave off running until he was one hundred
yards from the house, while Juno and Ready were laughing at him till the
tears came into their eyes.  When he saw the crayfish on the table, he
appeared to be afraid of it, although it was dead
said Mr Seagrave
replied Tommy
said Mr Seagrave
replied Tommy
replied Mr Seagrave
Tommy was not very well pleased at this decision, for he really did wish
to have some of it, so he turned very sulky for the rest of the
dinner-time, especially when old Ready told him that he had had his
share of the crayfish before dinner
As soon as the meal was over, Mr Seagrave and Juno assisted them in
carrying down the canvas and poles for the tent, with shovels to clear
away, and the pegs to fix the tents up properly.  Before they started,
William observed
replied Ready
As Mr Seagrave was of the same opinion, Juno packed up a piece of salt
pork and some flour-cakes, which, with three or four bottles of water,
they took down to the boat.  Ready having thrown in a piece of rope to
moor the boat with, they shoved off and were soon through the reef, and,
after a smart pull, they arrived again at the small harbour.

As soon as they had landed all the things, they made the boat fast by
the rope, and then carried a portion of the canvas and tent-poles up to
the first copse of trees, which were the guavas; they then returned for
the remainder, and after three trips everything was up
They walked to where the bananas were now throwing out their beautiful
large green leaves, and decided that they would fix the tents upon the
north side of them
said Ready
They were soon hard at work, and long before sunset one tent was ready,
and they had put their bedding in it
said Ready
They walked to where the ground between the bananas and yam patch was
wet and swampy, and dug two large holes about a yard deep and square;
the water trickled in very fast, and they were up to their ankles before
they had finished
replied Ready.

They returned to the tent and made their supper off the salt pork and
flour-cakes, and then lay down on the mattresses.  They were soon fast
asleep, for they were tired out with the hard work which they had gone
through.

The next morning, at sunrise, they were up again; the first thing they
did was to go and examine the holes they had dug for water; they found
them full and running over, and the water had settled quite clear; they
tasted it, and pronounced it very good.

As soon as they had washed themselves, they went back and made their
breakfast, and then set to work to get up the other tent.  They then
cleared all the ground near the tents of brushwood and high grass, and
levelled it nicely with their shovels inside
In another hour the fireplace was completed, and Ready and William
looked at their work
said Ready
replied William
said Ready
They went down to the boat, and sailed back as before; by ten o'clock in
the morning they had regained the house, and then they made arrangements
for their work during the remainder of the day.  It was agreed that the
provisions necessary for a day or two, the table and chairs, the cooking
utensils, and a portion of their clothes, should be taken round that
afternoon, that Ready and William should come back early the next
morning, and then they should all set off together through the wood to
the new location.  The sheep and lambs (for they had four lambs), the
goats and kids, were to be driven through the wood by Mr Seagrave;
William and Ready and the dogs would be very useful in driving them.  As
for the fowls and chickens, it was decided they should be left, as Ready
and William could look after them on their occasional visits
The boat was well loaded that afternoon, and they had a heavy pull
round, and hard work afterwards to carry all the articles up.  William
and Ready were, therefore, not sorry when their work was done, and they
went to bed as soon as they had taken their supper.

At sunrise, they went back to the bay in the boat, which they hauled up,
and then proceeded to the house, where they found that everyone was
ready to start.  Mr Seagrave had collected all the animals, and they
set off; the marks on the trees were very plain, and they had no
difficulty in finding their way; but they had a good deal of trouble
with the goats and sheep, and did not get on very fast.  It was three
hours before they got clear of the cocoa-nut grove, and Mrs Seagrave
was quite tired out.  At last they arrived, and Mr and Mrs Seagrave
could not help exclaiming
When they came to where the tents were pitched by the side of the
bananas, they were equally pleased: it was quite a fairy spot.  Mrs
Seagrave went into her tent to repose after her fatigue; the goats and
sheep were allowed to stray away as they pleased; the dogs lay down,
panting with their long journey; Juno put Albert on the bed while she
went with William to collect fuel to cook the dinner; Ready went to the
pits to get some water, while Mr Seagrave walked about, examining the
different clumps of trees with which the meadow was studded.

When Ready returned with the water, he called the dogs, and went back
towards the yam plantation.  Tommy followed them; the dogs went into the
yams, and were soon barking furiously, which pleased Tommy very much;
when, of a sudden, out burst again in a drove all the pigs, followed by
the dogs, and so close to Tommy that he screamed with fright, and
tumbled head over heels
said Ready, looking after the
pigs
The pigs scampered away, and went into the cocoa-nut grove as they had
done before.  The dogs followed the pigs, and did not return for a long
while afterwards.

It was late before the dinner was ready, and they were all very glad to
go early to bed.

At day dawn, William and Ready had again started, and walked through the
cocoa-nut grove back to the house, to bring round in the boat the
articles of furniture and the clothes which had been left.  Having
collected everything in the house, and procured some more pork and flour
from the storehouse, they completed the load by spearing one of the
turtles which remained, and putting it into the bottom of the boat; they
then set off again for their new residence, and arrived in time for
breakfast
said Mrs Seagrave
said Ready
said Mr Seagrave
The next morning they went with their shovels to the yam plantation, and
commenced their work.  As the ground was soft and swampy, the labour was
very easy.  The ditch was dug nearly a yard wide, and the earth thrown
up on a bank inside.  They then went to where the large patch of prickly
pears grew, and cut a quantity, which they planted on the top of the
bank.  Before night, they had finished about nine or ten yards of the
hedge and ditch
said Ready
said William
Before Mr Seagrave and Ready started on the following morning, the
latter gave William directions as to the boat.  The provisions and the
knapsack having been already prepared, they took leave of Mrs Seagrave,
and set off, each armed with a musket, and Ready with his axe slung over
his shoulder.  They had a long walk before them, as they had first to
find their way back to the house, and from thence had to walk through
the wood to the cove.

In two hours after leaving the house they reached the spot where they
had first landed.  The rocks near to it were strewed with timber and
planks, which lay bleaching in the sun, or half-buried in the sand.  Mr
Seagrave sat down, and sighed deeply as he said
said Mr Seagrave, rising up
They walked round, but, with the exception of spars and a barrel or two
of tar, they could find nothing of value.  There was no want of staves
and iron hoops of broken casks, and these, Ready observed, would make
excellent palings for the garden when they had time to bring them round.

After they had returned, they sat down to rest themselves, and then they
went to the tents in the cocoa-nut grove, in which they had collected
the articles thrown up when the ship went to pieces
said Ready
The first cask which was opened had a cake round it as hard as a board;
but when it was cut through with the axe, the inside was found in a good
state
After dinner they resumed their labour
said Mr Seagrave, pointing to the first at hand.  Ready set to work
with his axe, and broke off the lid, and found a number of pasteboard
boxes full of tapes, narrow ribbons, stay-laces, whalebones, and cottons
on reels
said Mr
Seagrave
The next was a box without a lock; the lid was forced up, and they found
a dozen half-gallon square bottles of gin stored in divisions
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
The head was soon out, and discovered a dinner set of painted china with
gold edges
replied Mr Seagrave
said Ready
When the box was opened, everything appeared in a sad mouldy state from
the salt water which had penetrated; but on removing the brown paper and
pasteboard, it was found to contain stationery of all sorts, and, except
on the outside, it was very little injured
replied Ready, wrenching it open with his axe
Mr Seagrave and Ready then set to work, and made a rough sort of bed of
cocoa-nut branches; and, after eating their supper, committed themselves
to the divine protection, and went to sleep.  The next morning they
resumed their labour, and opened every other case and package that had
been saved from the wreck; they found more books, four boxes of candles,
three casks of rice, and several other useful articles, besides many
others which were of no value to them.

A chest of tea, and two bags of coffee, which Ready had brought on
shore, were, much to their delight, found in good order; but there was
no sugar, the little which they had saved having been melted away
The sand was shovelled up, and the barrels of beef and pork and the deal
boards found in good order, but many other things were quite spoilt.
About noon they had finished, and as they had plenty of time, Mr
Seagrave took the bearings of the different points of land with the
compasses.  They then shouldered their muskets, and set off on their
return.

They gained the house in the bay, and having rested a little while at
the storehouse, they proceeded on their way to the tents in the meadow.
They had about half a mile to go, when Ready heard a noise, and made a
sign to Mr Seagrave to stop.  Ready, whispering to Mr Seagrave that
the pigs were all close to them, loaded his musket; Mr Seagrave did the
same, and they walked very softly to where they now heard their
grunting; they did not see them till they were within twenty yards, and
then they came upon the whole herd; the pigs raised their heads; the old
ones gave a loud grunt, and then, just as Ready fired his musket, they
all set off at full speed.  Mr Seagrave had no opportunity of firing,
but Ready had shot one, which lay kicking and struggling under a
cocoa-nut tree
said Ready,
as they walked up to where the animal was lying
replied Mr Seagrave
The pig was soon slung, and they carried it between them.  As they
cleared the wood, they perceived Mrs Seagrave and William, who had
heard the report of the musket, and had come out to meet them.

William took the load from his father, who walked on with Mrs Seagrave
said Ready
replied William
As soon as they were at the tents, Ready hung up the pig to the cross
pole of the tent in which he and William and Mr Seagrave slept, and
having propped the muskets up against the side of the tent, he went with
William to get his knife and some stretchers of wood to open the pig
with.  While he and William were away, Caroline and Tommy came out to
look at it, and Tommy, after telling Caroline how glad he was that they
were to have roast pig for dinner, took up one of the muskets, and said
cried Caroline
replied Tommy
cried Caroline
replied Tommy, trying to point the musket at her.

Caroline was so frightened, that she ran away as fast as she could, and
then Tommy, using all his strength, contrived to get the musket up to
his shoulder, and pulled the trigger.

It so happened that Tommy had taken up Mr Seagrave's musket, which had
not been fired, and when he pulled the trigger it went off, and as he
did not hold it tight to his shoulder, it recoiled, and hit him with the
butt right on his face, knocking out two of his teeth, besides making
his nose bleed very fast.

Tommy was so astonished and frightened at the musket going off, and the
blow which he received, that he gave a loud yell, dropped the musket,
and ran to the tent where his father and mother were, just as they had
started up and had rushed out at hearing the report.

When Mrs Seagrave saw Tommy all covered with blood, and screaming so
loud, she was so alarmed that she could not stand, and fell fainting in
Mr Seagrave's arms.  Ready and William, on hearing the musket go off,
had run as fast as they could, fearing that some accident had happened;
and while Mr Seagrave supported his wife, Ready went to Tommy, and
wiping the blood off his face with the palm of his hand, perceived that
there was no wound or serious mischief, and cried out to Mr Seagrave
cried Tommy, sobbing as the blood ran out of
his mouth
cried Tommy, blubbering.

Juno now came up with some water to wash his face; Mrs Seagrave had
recovered, and gone back into the tent, on Mr Seagrave telling her that
it was only Tommy's nose which was bleeding.

In about half-an-hour Tommy had ceased crying, and his nose had left off
bleeding; his face was washed, and then it was discovered that he had
lost two front teeth, and that his cheek and lips were very much
bruised.  He was undressed, and put to bed, and was soon fast asleep
said Ready to William
said Caroline
cried Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
The next morning Tommy's face presented a very woeful appearance.  His
cheek and lips were swelled and black, and the loss of his two front
teeth made him look much worse.

Tommy looked very glum when he came to breakfast.  There was the pig's
fry for breakfast, and the smell of it had been very inviting to Tommy;
but when his father scolded him, and told him that he was not to have
one bit of the pig, he began to cry and roar so loud, that he was sent
away from the tents till he had left off.

After breakfast, Ready proposed that he and William should take the
boat, and begin their labour of carrying the articles round from the
cove to the bay where the house was, pointing out that there was not a
day to be lost.  Juno had, at his request, already baked a large piece
of the pig for them to take with them, and boiled a piece of salt pork,
so that they were all ready to start
said Mrs Seagrave
Ready and William made every preparation for a continued absence.  They
took their blankets with them, and a small pot for cooking, and when all
was prepared they bade Mr and Mrs Seagrave farewell.  They were now to
pull to the bay, and leave their luggage, and then go round to the cove.
As they shoved off, William took the dog Remus into the boat
They hoisted the sail, and as the breeze was fresh, were round to the
bay in a very short time.  They took their provisions and stores up to
the house, and made fast the door, called the fowls, and gave them some
damaged rice which Ready had brought from the cove, and found, to their
great delight, that they had now upwards of forty chickens; some,
indeed, quite grown, and large enough to kill.

They then got into the boat again, and pulled away for the cove; the
wind was fresh, and against them, so they had a long pull; but, as Ready
observed, it was much better that it should be so, as, when the boat was
loaded, they could very quickly sail back again to the bay.

As soon as they arrived at the cove, they lost no time in loading the
boat; the nails, and iron work of every description, with the twine and
tools, composed the major part of the first cargo; and calling Remus,
who was lying on the sandy beach, they shoved off, hoisted their sail,
and in an hour had regained the bay, and passed through the reef
replied William
As they were eating their dinner, and William was giving the bones to
the dog, Ready said
William then wrote on the paper
William tied the paper round the dog's neck with a piece of twine, and
then calling him out of the house, said to him
the dog looked wistfully at William, as if not sure of what
he was to do, but William took up a stone, and pretended to throw it at
the dog, who ran away a little distance, and then stopped
William again pretended to throw
the stone, repeating the order, and then the dog set off as fast as his
legs could carry him through the cocoa-nut grove
said William
replied Ready
As soon as they had carried up the whole of the cargo, they secured the
boat, and went up to the house to sleep.  Just as they went in, Remus
came bounding up to them with a letter round his neck
said Ready
William took the paper, opened it, and read
said Ready
said William, caressing it
The next morning, they were off before breakfast.  The boat was soon
loaded, and they returned under sail.  They then breakfasted, and having
left the things they had brought on the beach, that they might lose no
time, they set off again, and returned with another cargo two hours
before dusk; this they landed, and then secured the boat.  As soon as
they were in the house, William wrote on a piece of paper
Remus did not require any teaching this time.  William patted him, and
said
and the dog wagged
his tail, and set off immediately.

Before they were in bed, the dog returned with the answer
The next day, as they had to take the two cargoes up to the house, they
could only make one trip to the cove.  On Saturday they only made one
trip, as they had to return to the tents, which they did by water,
having first put a turtle into the boat; on their arrival, they found
them all at the little harbour, waiting to receive them
said Mrs Seagrave
said Tommy
said Ready
replied Mr Seagrave
As they were at supper the conversation turned upon the cleverness shown
by the dog Remus.

Mr Seagrave narrated many instances of the sagacity of animals, when
William asked the question of his father
observed Ready
continued Mr Seagrave
The following day, being Sunday, was devoted to the usual religious
exercises.  Tommy stole away out of the tent, while Mr Seagrave was
reading a sermon, to have a peep at the turtle-soup, which was boiling
on the fire; however, Juno suspected him, and had hold of him just as he
was taking the lid off the pot.  He was well scolded, and very much
frightened lest he should have no soup for his dinner; however, as it
was not a very heavy offence, he was forgiven.

In the evening, William requested his father to renew the conversation
about the reasoning powers of animals
replied Mr Seagrave
replied William
observed William
observed William
On the Monday morning, William and Ready went away in the boat, as
before, to bring round the various articles from the cove.  It had been
arranged that they were not to return till the Saturday evening, and
that the dog Remus was to bring intelligence of them and their welfare
every afternoon.  They worked hard during the week, and on Saturday they
had completed their task; with the exception of a portion of the timbers
of the ship, everything had been brought round, but had not been carried
up to the storehouse, as that required more time.

On Saturday morning, they went for the last time to the cove, and Ready
selected some heavy oak timber out of the quantity which was lying on
the beach, part of which they put into the boat, and the remainder they
towed astern.  It was a heavy load, and although the wind was fair to
sail back again to the bay, the boat went but slowly through the water
said Ready
replied
William
replied Ready
It was, indeed, much later than they had usually arrived at the little
harbour, owing to the heavy load, which made the boat so long in coming
round from the cove; and when they pulled in, they found Mr and Mrs
Seagrave and the children all waiting for them
said Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
observed Ready
replied Ready
said William
The next day being Sunday was a day of repose, and as they had all
worked so hard, they felt the luxury of a day of rest.  In the
afternoon, they agreed that on Monday they should make every preparation
for quitting the tents, and returning to the house at the bay.  They
decided that the live stock should all be left there, as the pasturage
was so plentiful and good, with the exception of one goat, which they
would take back with them, to supply them with milk; and they also
agreed that the tents should be left standing, with some cooking
utensils, that in case William and Ready went round for the bananas or
yams, or to examine the live stock, they should not be compelled to
sleep in the open air, and should have the means of dressing their
dinner.  William and Ready were to carry the beds, etcetera, round to
the bay in the boat, which they could do in two trips, and Mr and Mrs
Seagrave, with the family, were to walk through the woods after taking a
very early breakfast.

All these points being arranged, they had finished their supper, when
William again brought up the conversation about animals, as he was
delighted to bear Mr Seagrave talk on the subject.  The conversation
had not commenced more than a few minutes, when William said
said William
The next morning was one of bustle; there was packing up and every
preparation for departure.  Juno was called here and called there, and
was obliged to ask little Caroline to look after the kettle and call to
her if it boiled over.  Master Tommy, as usual, was in every one's way,
and doing more harm than good in his attempts to assist.

At last, Ready, to get rid of him, sent him down with a large bundle to
the beach.  Tommy shouldered it with great importance, but when he came
back, looking rather warm with the exertion, and Ready asked him to take
down another, he said he was too tired, and sat down very quietly till
breakfast-time, before which everything was ready.

Mrs Seagrave and Juno packed up the breakfast and dinner things in a
basket after breakfast was over, and then Mr and Mrs Seagrave and the
family set off on their journey, accompanied by the dogs, through the
cocoa-nut grove.

William and Ready lost no time in getting through their work; the
crockery, kitchen utensils, table, and chairs, were the first articles
put into the boat.  The goat was then led down, and they set off with a
full load, and arrived at the bay long before the party who were walking
through the wood.  They landed the things on the beach, and then shoved
off again to bring round the bedding, which was all that was left.  By
three o'clock in the afternoon they had arrived at the bay with their
second and last load, and found that the other party had been there
about an hour, and Mr Seagrave and Juno were very busy taking the
articles up from the beach
said Ready
replied Ready, who had his
eyes fixed upon the sea.

Before night everything was in its place again in the house, and as
comfortable as before, and as they were very tired, they went very early
to bed, having first arranged what they should do in the morning.  At
daylight Ready and William went down to the turtle-pond and speared a
turtle, for now the time was coming on for turning the turtle again, and
the pond would soon be filled.  Having cut it up and put a portion of it
into the pot, all ready for Mrs Seagrave, as soon as breakfast was over
they proceeded to the storehouse.

After a little consultation with Mr Seagrave, Ready marked out a square
of cocoa-nut trees surrounding the storehouse, so as to leave a space
within them of about twenty yards each side, which they considered large
enough for the inclosure.  These cocoa-nut trees were to serve as the
posts between which were to be fixed other cocoa-nut trees cut down, and
about fourteen feet high, so as to form a palisade or stockade, which
could not be climbed over, and would protect them from any attack of the
savages.

As soon as the line of trees had been marked out, they set to work
cutting down all the trees within the line, and then outside to a
distance of ten yards, so as to give them room for their work.  Ready
cut out cross-pieces, to nail from tree to tree, and now they found the
advantage of having saved so many of the large spike nails, without
which they never could have made so good or so quick a job of it.  Mr
Seagrave cut down trees, William and Juno sawed them off at a proper
length with one of the cross-cut saws, and then carried them to Ready.
They soon had more cut out than he could use, and then they dragged away
the tops and branches, and piled them at a distance on the ground, to
use as winter fuel, while Mr Seagrave helped Ready in fixing up the
palisades.  They worked very hard that day, and were not sorry to go to
bed.  Ready, however, took an opportunity to speak to William
said he
For nearly a fortnight, the work upon the stockade continued without any
intermission, when a circumstance occurred which created the greatest
alarm and excitement.  One day, as the party returned to dinner, Mrs
Seagrave said with surprise
replied Mr Seagrave
exclaimed Mrs Seagrave, alarmed
replied Ready
said Juno, pointing with her finger
It was but too true: there was Tommy in the boat, and the boat had
drifted from the beach, and was now a cable's length away from it, among
the breakers.

William ran off like the wind, followed close by Mr Seagrave and Ready,
and at a distance by Mrs Seagrave and Juno; indeed, there was no time
to be lost, for the wind was off the shore, and in a short time the boat
would have been out to sea.

William, as soon as he arrived at the beach, threw off his hat and
jacket and dashed into the water.  He was already up to his middle, when
old Ready, who had followed him, caught him by the arm and said
said Mr Seagrave
William obeyed, but before he was clear of the water Ready had swam
across to the first rocks on the reef, and was now dashing through the
pools between the rocks, towards the boat
said William
In the meantime, Mr Seagrave, whose wife was now by his side, after
glancing his eye a moment at the sharks, which were within a few feet of
the beach, had kept his gaze steadily upon Ready's movements.  If he
passed through the passage of deep water between the rocks he might be
considered safe, as the boat was now beating on a reef on the other
side, where the water was shallow.  It was a moment of intense anxiety.
At last Ready had gained the reef, and had his hands upon the rocks, and
was climbing on them
whispered Mrs Seagrave faintly
replied Mr Seagrave, as Ready had gained a
footing on the rocks, where the water was but a little above his ankles
In another minute Ready was over the rocks, and had seized the gunnel of
the boat
cried William
replied Mr Seagrave
continued he, pointing to the sharks
Such, however, was not the case.  The boat had been beating on the rocks
of the reef, and had knocked a hole in her bottom, and as soon as Ready
had forced the boat into deep water, she began to fill immediately.
Ready pushed as hard as he could with the boat-hook, and tearing off his
neck-cloth, forced as much as he could of it into the hole.  This saved
them; but the boat was up to the thwarts with water, and the least
motion on the part of Ready, or even Tommy, would have upset her
immediately, and they had still to pass the deep water between the reef
and the beach, where the sharks were swimming.  Ready, who perceived his
danger, called out to them to throw large stones at the sharks as fast
as they could, to drive them away.  This was immediately done by Mr
Seagrave and William, aided by Juno and Mrs Seagrave.

The pelting of the stones had the desired effect.  The sharks swam away,
and Ready passed through to the beach, and the boat grounded just as she
was up to the gunnel in water, and about to turn over.  He handed out
Tommy, who was so dreadfully frightened that he could not cry.

As soon as Ready landed, William sprang into his arms, crying
Mrs Seagrave, overpowered by her feelings,
sank her head upon William's shoulder, and burst into tears
observed Ready, as they walked up to the
house, preceded by Mr and Mrs Seagrave
replied William
That evening the prayers were more than usually solemn, and the
thanksgivings more heartfelt and sincere.  Exhausted with the exciting
scene of the day, they all retired early to bed
When Tommy was questioned on the following morning as to his inducement
to get into the boat, to their great surprise he replied, that he wanted
to go round to the tents again, to see if the bananas were ripe; that he
intended to eat some of them and be back before dinner-time, that he
might not be found out
said Ready
said Tommy
replied Mr
Seagrave
The stockade was now almost finished; the door was the occasion of a
good deal of consultation; at last, it was agreed that it would be
better to have a door of stout oak plank, but with second door-posts
inside, about a foot apart from the door, between which could be
inserted short poles one above the other, so as to barricade it within
when required.  This would make the door as strong as any other portion
of the stockade.  As soon as this was all complete, the storehouse was
to be altered for a dwelling-house, by taking away the wattles of
cocoa-nut boughs on the sides, and filling them up with logs of
cocoa-nut trees.

Before the week was ended the stockade and door were complete, and they
now began to fell trees, to form the sides of the house.  This was rapid
work; and while Mr Seagrave, William, and Juno felled the trees, and
brought them on the wheels to the side of the stockade, all ready cut to
their proper lengths, Ready was employed in flooring the house with a
part of the deal planks which they had brought round from the cove.  But
this week they were obliged to break off for two days, to collect all
their crops from the garden.

A fortnight more passed away in continual hard work, but the house was
at last finished, and very complete, compared to the one they were
residing in.  It was much larger, and divided into three rooms by the
deal planking: the middle room which the door opened into was the
sitting and eating room, with a window behind; the two side rooms were
sleeping-rooms, one for Mrs Seagrave and the children, and the other
for the male portion of the family
said Ready, when they were alone
said William
In consequence of this conversation, William proposed at dinnertime that
the next day they should go into the new house, as it was so much more
handy to work there and live there at the same time.  Mr Seagrave was
of the same opinion, but Mrs Seagrave thought it better that everything
should be tidy first
said Ready
said Mrs Seagrave
muttered Ready very softly.

The next day was fully employed in changing their residence, and
shifting over the bedding and utensils; and that night they slept within
the stockade.  Ready had run up a very neat little outhouse of plank, as
a kitchen for Juno, and another week was fully employed as follows: the
stores were divided; those of least consequence, and the salt
provisions, flour, and the garden produce, etcetera, were put into the
old house; the casks of powder and most of the cartridges were also put
there for security; but a cask of beef, of pork, and flour, all the
iron-work and nails, canvas, etcetera, were stowed away for the present
under the new house, which had, when built as a storehouse, been raised
four feet from the ground to make a shelter for the stock.  This was
very spacious, and, of course, quite dry, and contained all they wished
to put in.  Ready also took care, by degrees, to fill the large
water-butt full of water, and had fixed into the bottom a spigot for
drawing the water off
said Ready on the Saturday
said Tommy
observed Mrs Seagrave
William and Ready succeeded in turning six more turtles to add to their
stock, and having taken a careful survey with the telescope, they came
back, fastened the door of the stockade, and went to bed
Another week passed away, during which Ready repaired the boat, and
William and Mr Seagrave were employed in digging up the garden.  It was
also a very busy week at the house, as they had not washed linen for
some time.  Mrs Seagrave and Juno, and even little Caroline were hard
at work, and Tommy was more useful than ever he had been, going for the
water as they required it, and watching little Albert.  Indeed, he was
so active, that Mrs Seagrave praised him before his papa, and Tommy was
quite proud.

On the Monday William and Ready set off in the boat to the little
harbour, and found all the stock doing well.  Many of the bananas and
guavas had ripened and withered, but there were enough left to fill the
boat half full
Having procured the yams, they set off on their return.  Before they
arrived at the bay, the sky clouded over and threatened a storm.  It did
not, however, rain till after they had landed, when a small shower
announced the commencement of the rainy season.  The fruit was very
welcome to all of them, it was so long since they had tasted any.

The following day was beautifully fine, and everything appeared
refreshed by the rain which had fallen.  It was, however, agreed, that
Ready and William should go round the next morning, bring home the
tents, and as many yams as the boat could carry.  William and Ready went
out at night as usual, when Ready observed that the wind had chopped
round to the eastward
replied William
replied Ready
replied William
The next morning, just before the day dawned, Ready and William
unfastened the door of the stockade, and went down to the beach.  The
wind was still to the eastward, and blowing rather fresh, and the sky
was cloudy.  As the sun rose, Ready, as usual, had his telescope with
him, and looked through it at the offing to the eastward.  As he kept
the spy-glass to his eye for some time without speaking, William said
replied Ready
There was a bank of clouds on the horizon to the eastward, but as soon
as the sun had risen above them, Ready, who had the telescope fixed in
the same direction, said
said William, hastily
replied William, with his eye to the glass.  At
last he said
In a very few minutes after William ran up to the house, Mr Seagrave
made his appearance
Mr Seagrave examined the fleet of canoes with the glass
said Ready
These observations were made as they walked up to the house.  As soon as
they arrived, they found William and Juno had just brought in the powder
and cartridges.  Mr Seagrave went in to break the matter to his wife
replied Mrs Seagrave
said Mr Seagrave
Mr and Mrs Seagrave then joined William, Ready, and Juno, who had
already proceeded to the old house.  The children were all still in bed
and asleep, so that there was no occasion for any one to watch them
As they could have a very good view of the canoes from where the old
house stood, Ready examined them with his glass every time that he
returned from rolling up a cask to the stockade.  Every one worked hard;
even Mrs Seagrave did all she could, either assisting in rolling the
casks, or carrying up what she was able to lift.  In an hour they had
got into the stockade all that they most cared for, and the canoes were
still about six or seven miles off
said Ready
replied Mrs Seagrave
replied Ready.

In half an hour six turtles were brought up by Juno and William, and
then Ready followed them into the stockade.

They then rolled the casks, and upheaded them by the sides of the
stockade, and fixed up deal planks to stand upon, just high enough to
enable them to see over the top of the palisades, and to fire at the
enemy.  Mrs Seagrave had been shown how to load a musket, and Juno was
now taught the same
said Ready
As soon as the children were dressed, Mr Seagrave called Ready, who was
outside, watching the canoes, and they went to their morning devotions,
and prayed heartily for succour in this time of need.  They then
breakfasted in haste; for, as may be supposed, they were almost too
anxious to eat
said Mrs Seagrave
In a short time Mr Seagrave returned, saying that the canoes were close
to the beach, that the savages evidently had a knowledge of the passages
through the reefs, as they had steered right in, and had lowered their
sails; that Ready and William were on the look-out, but concealed behind
the cocoa-nut trees
During this conversation between Mr and Mrs Seagrave within the
stockade, William and Ready were watching the motions of the savages, a
large portion of whom had landed out of ten of the canoes, and the
others were following their example as fast as they could, forcing their
way through the reefs.  The savages were all painted, with their
war-cloaks and feathers on, and armed with spears and clubs, evidently
having come with no peaceable intentions.

William, who had taken the telescope to examine them more minutely, said
to Ready
William replied in a determined tone
Another half-minute, and they arrived at the door of the stockade; they
entered, shut the door, and then barricaded it with the cocoa-nut poles
which they had fitted to the inner door-posts
The loud yells of the savages struck terror into the heart of Mrs
Seagrave; it was well that she had not seen their painted bodies and
fierce appearance, or she would have been much more alarmed.  Little
Albert and Caroline clung around her neck with terror in their faces;
they did not cry, but looked round and round to see from whence the
horrid noise proceeded, and then clung faster to their mother.  Tommy
was very busy, finishing all the breakfast which had been left, for
there was no one to check him as usual; Juno was busy outside, and was
very active and courageous.  Mr Seagrave had been employed making the
holes between the palisades large enough to admit the barrels of the
muskets, so that they could fire at the savages without being exposed;
while William and Ready, with their muskets loaded, were on the look-out
for their approach
observed Ready
replied William
Ready now stood upon the plank within, so as to show himself to the
savages, who gave a tremendous yell, and as they advanced a dozen spears
were thrown at him with so true an aim that, had he not instantly dodged
behind the stockade, he must have been killed.  Three or four spears
remained quivering in the palisades, just below the top; the others went
over it, and fell down inside of the stockade, at the further end
but before William could fire, Mr
Seagrave, who had agreed to be stationed at the corner so that he might
see if the savages went round to the other side, fired his musket, and
the tall chief fell to the ground.

Ready and William also fired, and two more of the savages were seen to
drop amidst the yells of their companions.  Juno handed up the other
muskets which were ready loaded, and took those discharged, and Mrs
Seagrave, having desired Caroline to take care of her little brother,
and Tommy to be very quiet and good, came out, turned the key of the
door upon them, and hastened to assist Juno in reloading the muskets.

The spears now rushed through the air, and it was well that they could
fire from the stockade without exposing their persons, or they would
have had but little chance.  The yells increased, and the savages now
began to attack on every quarter; the most active, who climbed like
cats, actually succeeded in gaining the top of the palisades, but, as
soon as their heads appeared above, they were fired at with so true an
aim that they dropped down dead outside.  This combat lasted for more
than an hour, when the savages, having lost a great many men, drew off
from the assault, and the parties within the stockade had time to
breathe
said Ready
said Mrs Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
said William, who had come down from the
plank to his mother
said William
Juno went to the water-tub to comply with William's request, and in a
few moments afterwards came back in great consternation
cried Ready and all of them in a breath
exclaimed Ready very gravely
said Juno
replied Mrs Seagrave
said Juno, running to the house
observed Ready gravely.

Mr Seagrave shook his head.

The fact was, that they all perceived the danger of their position: if
the savages did not leave the island, they would perish of thirst or
have to surrender; and in the latter case, all their lives would most
certainly be sacrificed.

Juno now returned: her suspicions were but too true.  Tommy, pleased
with the praise of being so quick in bringing the water, had taken out
the spigot of the cask, and drawn it all off
observed Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
observed
Mrs Seagrave
Juno shook her head.

Mrs Seagrave said she would go and examine, and went away into the
house accompanied by Juno
observed Mr Seagrave
replied Ready
observed William
said Mr Seagrave
As Ready had supposed, no further attack was made by the savages on that
day, and he, William, and Mr Seagrave, were very busy making their
arrangements; they nailed the planks on the trunks of the trees above
the stockade, so as to make three sides of the stockade at least five
feet higher, and almost impossible to climb up; and they prepared a
large fire in a tar-barrel full of cocoa-nut leaves mixed with wood and
tar, so as to burn fiercely.  Dinner or supper they had none, for there
was nothing but salt pork and beef and live turtle, and, by Ready's
advice, they did not eat, as it would only increase their desire to
drink.

The poor children suffered much; and little Albert wailed and cried for
Ready remained on the look-out; indeed, everything was
so miserable inside of the house, that they were all glad to go out of
it; they could do no good, and poor Mrs Seagrave had a difficult and
most painful task to keep the children quiet under such severe
privation, for the weather was still very warm and sultry
But the moaning of the children was very soon after dusk drowned by the
yells of the savages, who, as Ready had prognosticated, now advanced to
the night attack.

Every part of the stockade was at once assailed, and their attempts now
made were to climb into it; a few spears were occasionally thrown, but
it was evident that the object was to obtain an entrance by dint of
numbers.  It was well that Ready had taken the precaution of nailing the
deal planks above the original stockade, or there is little doubt but
that the savages would have gained their object; as it was, before the
flames of the fire, which Juno had lighted by Ready's order, gave them
sufficient light, three or four savages had climbed up and had been shot
by William and Mr Seagrave, as they were on the top of the stockade.

When the fire burnt brightly, the savages outside were more easily aimed
at, and a great many fell in their attempts to get over.  The attack
continued more than an hour, when at last, satisfied that they could not
succeed, the savages once more withdrew, carrying with them, as before,
their dead and wounded
said Mr
Seagrave
continued Ready, pointing to one of those to which the
palisades were fastened
Mr Seagrave then went into the house; Ready desired William to lie down
and sleep for two or three hours, as he would watch.  In the morning,
when Mr Seagrave came out, he would have a little sleep himself
replied William
replied William
In the meantime, Mr Seagrave had gone into the house.  He found the
children still crying for water, notwithstanding the coaxing and
soothing of Mrs Seagrave, who was shedding tears as she hung over poor
little Albert.  Little Caroline only drooped, and said nothing.  Mr
Seagrave remained for two or three hours with his wife, assisting her in
pacifying the children, and soothing her to the utmost of his power; at
last he went out and found old Ready on the watch
replied Ready
Mr Seagrave took his station on the plank, and was left to his own
reflections; that they were not of the most pleasant kind may easily be
imagined.  He prayed earnestly and fervently that they might be
delivered from the danger and sufferings which threatened them, and
became calm and tranquil; prepared for the worst, if the worst was to
happen, and confidently placing himself and his family under the care of
him who orders all as he thinks best.

At daylight Ready woke up and relieved Mr Seagrave, who did not return
to the house, but lay down on the cocoa-nut boughs, where Ready had been
lying by the side of William.  As soon as Ready had got out the
spike-nails and hammer, he summoned William to his assistance, and they
commenced driving them into the cocoa-nut tree, one looking out in case
of the savages approaching, while the other was at work.  In less than
an hour they had gained the top of the tree close to the boughs, and had
a very commanding view of the bay, as well as inland.  William, who was
driving the last dozen spikes, took a survey, and then came down to
Ready
replied Ready
William again mounted to the top of the tree, and remained up for some
minutes; when he came down, he said
The second day was passed in keeping a look-out upon the savages, and
awaiting a fresh attack.  They could perceive from the top of the
cocoa-nut tree that the savages held a council of war in the forenoon,
sitting round in a large circle, while one got up in the centre and made
a speech, flourishing his club and spear while he spoke.  In the
afternoon the council broke up, and the savages were observed to be very
busy in all directions, cutting down the cocoa-nut trees, and collecting
all the brushwood.

Ready watched them for a long while, and at last came down a little
before sunset
said he
replied
Ready
said William
replied William
Ready then told Mr Seagrave that he would keep the watch, and call him
at twelve o'clock.  During these two days, they had eaten very little; a
turtle had been killed, and pieces fried, but eating only added to their
thirst, and even the children refused the meat.  The sufferings were now
really dreadful, and poor Mrs Seagrave was almost frantic.

As soon as Mr Seagrave had gone into the house, Ready called William,
and said
replied William
said Ready
Ready went for the barrico, a little cask, which held six or seven
gallons of water.  He put on the head-dress and war-cloak of the savage;
and, taking the barrico on his shoulder, and the spear in his hand, the
poles which barred the door were softly removed by William, and after
ascertaining that no one was concealed beneath the palisades, Ready
pressed William's hand, and set off across the cleared space outside of
the stockade, and gained the cocoa-nut trees.  William, as directed,
closed the door, passed one pole through the inner door-posts for
security, and remained on the watch.  He was in an awful state of
suspense, listening to the slightest noise, even the slight rustling by
the wind of the cocoa-nut boughs above him made him start; there he
continued for some minutes, his gun ready cocked by his side.

It is time that he returned, thought William; the distance is not 100
yards, and yet I have heard no noise.  At last he thought he heard
footsteps coming very softly.  Yes, it was so.  Ready was returning, and
without any accident.  William had his hand upon the pole, to slip it on
one side and open the door, when he heard a scuffle and a fall close to
the door.  He immediately threw down the pole, and opened it just as
Ready called him by name.  William seized his musket and sprang out; he
found Ready struggling with a savage, who was uppermost, and with his
spear at Ready's breast.  In a second William levelled and fired, and
the savage fell dead
said Ready in a faint voice
William caught up the barrico of water, and took it in; he then hastened
to Ready, who was on his knees.  Mr Seagrave, hearing the musket fired,
had run out, and finding the stockade door open, followed William, and
seeing him endeavouring to support Ready, caught hold of his other arm,
and they led him tottering into the stockade; the door was then
immediately secured, and they went to his assistance
said William
said Mr Seagrave
replied William
William ran for a pannikin, and taking out the bung, poured some water
out of the barrico and gave it to Ready, who drank it with eagerness
replied William
replied Mr Seagrave
William, who was very faint, drank off the pannikin of water, which
immediately revived him, and then, while Mr Seagrave hastened with some
water to the children and women, occupied himself with old Ready, who
breathed heavily, but did not speak
After returning twice for water, to satisfy those in the house, Mr
Seagrave came to the assistance of William, who had been removing
Ready's clothes to ascertain the nature of the wound he had received
said William.

Ready whispered
William gave him some more and then,
with the assistance of his father, Ready was removed to a more
comfortable place.  As soon as they laid him there, Ready turned on his
side, and threw up a quantity of blood
said he in a low voice
Mr Seagrave and William then examined the wound; the spear had gone
deep into the lungs.  William threw off his shirt, tore it up into
strips, and then bound up the wound so as to stop the effusion of blood.

Ready, who at first appeared much exhausted with being moved about,
gradually recovered so as to be able to speak in a low voice, when Mrs
Seagrave came out of the house
cried she
Mr Seagrave went to her, and caught her by the arm
Mr Seagrave related what had occurred, and then led her to where Ready
was lying.  Mrs Seagrave knelt by his side, took his hand, and burst
into tears
said Ready
said Mrs Seagrave
Mrs Seagrave then bent over him, and kissing his forehead, rose and
retired weeping into the house
said Ready
They complied with Ready's request; went up to the planks, and examined
carefully all round the stockade; at last they stopped
said Mr Seagrave.

William shook his head
replied he
replied William
William went softly up to Ready, and found that he was dozing; he
therefore did not disturb him, but returned to his father.  Now that
their thirst had been appeased, they all felt the calls of hunger.  Juno
and William went and cut off steaks from the turtle, and fried them;
they all made a hearty meal, and perhaps never had they taken one with
so much relish in their lives.

It was nearly daylight, when William, who had several times been softly
up to Ready, found him with his eyes open
said William
William hesitated
William squeezed Ready's hand; his heart was too full to speak
Ready's voice became faint after this exertion of speaking so much.

William immediately climbed up the cocoa-nut tree, and waited there till
daylight.  At the dawn of day, he perceived that the savages were at
work, that they had collected all the faggots together opposite to where
the old house had stood, and were very busy in making arrangements for
the attack.  At last, every one shouldered a faggot, and commenced their
advance towards the stockade; William immediately descended and called
his father, who was talking with Mrs Seagrave.  The muskets were all
loaded, and Mrs Seagrave and Juno took their posts below the planking,
to reload them as fast as they were fired
said Mr Seagrave
When the first savages were within fifty yards, they both fired, and two
of the men dropped; they continued to fire as their assailants came up,
with great success for the first ten minutes; after which the savages
advanced in a larger body, and took the precaution to hold the faggots
in front of them, for some protection as they approached.  By these
means they gained the stockade in safety, and commenced laying their
faggots.  Mr Seagrave and William still kept up an incessant fire upon
them, but not with so much success as before.

Although many fell, the faggots were gradually heaped up, till they
almost reached to the holes between the palisades, through which they
pointed their muskets; and as the savages contrived to slope them down
from the stockade to the ground, it was evident that they meant to mount
up and take them by escalade.  At last, it appeared as if all the
faggots had been placed, and the savages retired farther back, to where
the cocoa-nut trees were still standing
said William
replied Mr Seagrave
said William
said Mr
Seagrave
The whole body of savages were now advancing from the cocoa-nut wood in
a solid mass; they raised a yell, which struck terror into the hearts of
Mrs Seagrave and Juno, yet they flinched not.  The savages were again
within fifty yards of them, when the fire was opened upon them; the fire
was answered by loud yells, and the savages had already reached to the
bottom of the sloping pile of faggots, when the yells and the reports of
the muskets were drowned by a much louder report, followed by the
crackling and breaking of the cocoa-nut trees, which made both parties
start with surprise; another and another followed, the ground was
ploughed up, and the savages fell in numbers
said William
replied Mr
Seagrave in utter astonishment.

The savages paused in the advance, quite stupefied; again, again, again,
the report of the loud guns boomed through the air, and the round-shot
and grape came whizzing and tearing through the cocoa-nut grove; at this
last broadside, the savages turned, and fled towards their canoes: not
one was left to be seen
cried Mr Seagrave, leaping off the plank and embracing
his wife, who sank down on her knees, and held up her clasped hands in
thankfulness to Heaven.

William had hastened up to the look-out on the cocoa-nut tree, and now
cried out to them below, as the guns were again discharged
William then descended from the look-out as fast as he could.

As soon as he was down, he commenced unbarring the door of the stockade.
He pulled out the last pole just as he heard the feet of their
deliverers outside.  He threw open the door, and, a second after, found
himself in the arms of Captain Osborn
Before we wind up this history, it will be as well to state to my young
readers how it was that Captain Osborn made his appearance at so
fortunate a moment.  It will be recollected how a brig came off the
island some months before this, and the great disappointment that the
party on the island experienced in her not making her appearance again.
The fact was, that those on board of the brig had not only seen their
signals, but had read the name of the
upon the flag hoisted;
but the heavy gale which came on drove them so far to the southward,
that the master of the brig did not consider that he should do his duty
to his owners, if he lost so much time in beating up for the island
again.  He therefore decided upon making all sail for Sydney, to which
port he was bound.

When Captain Osborn was put into the boat by Mackintosh and the seamen
of the _Pacific_, he was still insensible; but he gradually recovered,
and after a stormy night, Captain Osborn was so far recovered as to hear
from Mackintosh what had taken place, and why it was that he found
himself in an open boat at sea.  The next morning the wind moderated,
and they were fortunate enough to fall in with a vessel bound to Van
Diemen's Land, which took them all on board.

From the account given by Mackintosh, Captain Osborn had no doubt in his
mind but that the Seagrave family had perished, and the loss of the
vessel, with them on board, was duly reported to the owners.  When at
Van Diemen's Land, Captain Osborn was so much taken with the beauty and
fertility of the country, and perhaps not so well inclined to go to sea
again after such danger as he had incurred in the last voyage, that he
resolved to purchase land and settle there.  He did so, and had already
stocked his farm with cattle, and had gone round to Sydney in a schooner
to await the arrival of a large order from England which he had sent
for, when the brig arrived and reported the existence of some white
people on the small island, and also that they had hoisted a flag with
the name _Pacific_ worked on it.

Captain Osborn, hearing this, went to the master of the brig, and
questioned him.  He found the latitude and longitude of the island to be
not far from that of the ship when she was deserted, and he was now
convinced that, by some miracle, the Seagrave family had been preserved.
He therefore went to the Governor of New South Wales, and made him
acquainted with the facts which had been established, and the Governor
instantly replied, that the government armed schooner was at his
service, if he would himself go in quest of his former shipmates.
Inconvenient as the absence at that time was to Captain Osborn, he at
once acquiesced, and in a few days the schooner sailed for her
destination.  She arrived off the island on the same morning that the
fleet of canoes with the savages effected their landing, and when
William made the remark to Ready as they were hastening into the
stockade, that there was another vessel under sail off the garden-point,
had Ready had time to put his eye to the telescope, he would have
discovered that it was the schooner.

The schooner stood in to the reefs, and then hauled off again, that she
might send her boat in to sound for an anchorage.  The boat, when
sounding, perceived the canoes and the savages, and afterwards heard the
report of firearms on the first attack.  On her return on board the
schooner, they stated what they had seen and heard, and their idea that
the white people on the island were being attacked by the savages.  As
the boat did not return on board till near dusk, they had not time to
canvas, the question when the night attack was made, and they again
heard the firing of the muskets.  This made Captain Osborn most anxious
to land as soon as possible, but as the savages were in such numbers,
and the crew of the schooner did not consist of more than twenty-five
men, the commander considered it was rash to make the attempt.  He did,
however, show the utmost anxiety to bring his schooner to an anchor, so
as to protect his men, and then agreed that they should land.

The boat had reported deep water and good anchorage close to the
garden-point, and every preparation was made for running at daylight on
the following morning; but unfortunately, it fell calm for the best part
of the day, and it was not until the morning after, just as the savages
were making their last attack upon the stockade, that she could get in.
As soon as she did, she opened the fire of her carronades, and the
result is already known.

My readers must, if they can, imagine the joy of Mr and Mrs Seagrave
when they beheld their old friend Captain Osborn.  All danger was now
over; the party who had landed with him went out under the command of
the mate, to ascertain if there were any more of the savages to be
found; but, except the dead and dying, all had escaped in some of the
smaller canoes.  Captain Osborn remained with the Seagraves, and they
informed him of the state of poor old Ready, whom William had gone to
attend as soon as Captain Osborn was engaged with his father and mother.
Captain Osborn hurried out to see him; Ready knew his voice, for his
eyes were already so dim that he could not see
said Ready in a faint voice
replied Ready
The old man then joined his hands across his breast, and remained for
some time in silent prayer.  Then he bade them farewell in a faint
voice, which at last was changed to a mere whisper.  They still
remained, in silence and in tears, standing round him, William only
kneeling and holding his hand, when the old man's head fell back, and he
was no more
said Mr Seagrave mournfully
Mr Seagrave then led away his wife and children, leaving Juno and
William.  William closed his eyes, and Juno went and fetched the ship's
ensign, which they laid over the body, after which they joined the rest
of the party in the house.

It was decided that the following day should be passed in packing up and
getting on board their luggage, and that the day after the family should
embark.  William then mentioned the wish of poor old Ready as to his
burial.  The commander of the schooner immediately gave directions for a
coffin to be made, and for his men to dig the grave at the spot that
William should point out
The hurry and bustle of preparing for their departure from the island,
and the rapid succession of events which had been crowded together
within so very few days, had not allowed time for much thought or
reflection to Mr and Mrs Seagrave and William; at length, however,
every preparation had been made, and they were no longer urged by the
commander of the schooner to hasten their packing up and arrangements;
for everything had been sent on board during the afternoon, and it was
proposed that they should sail on the following day.

Now they had time to feel, and bitterly did they lament the loss of
their old friend, and deplore that he had not survived to sail with them
to Sydney.  They had always indulged the hope that one day they should
be taken off the island, and in that hope they had ever looked forward
to old Ready becoming a part of their future household.  Now that their
wishes had been granted -- so much was the feeling of joy and gratitude
mingled with regret -- that could he have been restored to them, they felt
as if they would have gladly remained on the island.

Captain Osborn, the commander, and the crew of the schooner had taken
leave of them for the night, and had gone on board, having made
arrangements for the interment of Ready, previous to their sailing, on
the following day.  The children had been put to bed, and Juno had
quitted the house; Mr and Mrs Seagrave and William were sitting
together in their now half-dismantled room, when Juno entered; the poor
girl had evidently been weeping
observed Mr Seagrave, with a view to break the silence
which had continued for some time previous to her entrance
replied Juno
said Mrs Seagrave
continued Mr
Seagrave
said Juno
replied Mr Seagrave
said William, who had been leaning
mournfully over the table
replied
Mr Seagrave
replied Mrs Seagrave
and Mrs Seagrave wept upon the shoulder
of her husband.

After a time, Mrs Seagrave recovered herself; but silence ensued, only
broken by an occasional sob from poor Juno.  William's heart was too
full; he could not for a long while utter a word; at last he said in a
low voice
replied Mrs Seagrave
replied William
said Mr Seagrave
replied Mrs Seagrave
replied Mr Seagrave
Mr Seagrave took down the Bible, and after he had read a chapter, he
poured forth a prayer suited to their feelings, and they all retired to
repose.

The next morning they were up early, and packed up the few articles
which still remained to go on board.  Mr Seagrave read the prayers, and
they went to breakfast.  Few words were exchanged, for there was a
solemn grief upon all of them.  They waited for the arrival of Captain
Osborn and the crew of the schooner to attend the funeral of poor old
Ready.  William, who had gone out occasionally to look at the vessel,
now came in, and said that two boats were pulling on shore.  A few
minutes afterwards, Captain Osborn and the commander of the schooner
soon made their appearance.  The coffin had been brought on shore; the
body of Ready was put into it, and it was screwed down.

In half an hour all was prepared, and the family were summoned from the
house.  The coffin, covered with the Union Jack as a pall, was raised on
the shoulders of six of the seamen, and they bore it to the grave,
followed by Mrs Seagrave and the children, the commander of the
schooner, and several of the men.  Mr Seagrave read the funeral
service, the grave was filled up, and they all walked back in silence.
At the request of William, the commander of the schooner had ordered the
carpenter to prepare an oak paling to put round the grave, and a board
on which was written the name of the deceased and day of his death.  As
soon as this had been fixed up, William, with a deep sigh, followed the
commander of the schooner to the house to announce that all was
finished, and that the boat waited for them to embark
said Mr Seagrave to his wife
replied Mrs Seagrave
As Mr Seagrave was aware that the commander of the schooner was anxious
to get clear of the islands before night, he now led his wife down to
the boat.  They all embarked, and were soon on the deck of the schooner,
from whence they continued to fix their eyes upon the island, while the
men were heaving up the anchor.  At last sail was made upon the vessel,
the garden-point was cleared, and, as they ran away with a fair wind,
each object on the shore became more indistinct.  Still their eyes were
turned in that direction.

As they ran down to the westward, they passed the cove where they had
first landed, and Mr Seagrave directed Mrs Seagrave's attention to it.
She remained for some time looking at it in silence, and then said as
she turned away
replied
her husband.

The schooner now ran fast through the water, and the island was every
minute less distinct; after a time, the land was below the horizon, and
the tops of the cocoa-nut trees only to be seen; these gradually
disappeared.  Juno watched on, and when at last nothing could be seen,
she waved her handkerchief in the direction of the island, as if to bid
it farewell, and then went down below to hide her grief.

The wind continued fair, and, after a favourable passage of little more
than four weeks, they arrived at Sydney Cove, the port to which they
were bound when they embarked from England on board of the good ship
Pacific.

PS.  As my young readers will probably wish to know a little more about
the Seagrave family, I will inform them that Mr Seagrave, like the
patriarch Job after his tribulation, found his flocks and herds greatly
increased on his arrival at Sydney.  Mr and Mrs Seagrave lived to see
all their children grown up.  William inherited the greater part of the
property from his father, after having for many years assisted him in
the management of it.  Tommy, notwithstanding all his scrapes, grew up a
very fine fellow, and entered the army.  Caroline married a young
clergyman, and made him an excellent wife; little Albert went into the
navy, and is at present a commander.

Juno is still alive, and lives at Seagrave plantation with William, and
her greatest pleasure is to take his children on her knee, and tell them
long stories about the island, and make them cry when she goes through
the history of old Ready's death and burial
</text>
