<text>
DEDICATED TO MY DEAR LITTLE COUSIN JANE HOLLWAY.


&lsqb;THE ENCHANTED BAY
PAGE 16
A boy, whom I knew very well, was once going through a meadow, which
was full of buttercups. The nurse and his baby sister were with him;
and when they got to an old hawthorn, which grew in the hedge and was
covered with blossom, they all sat down in its shade, and the nurse
took out three slices of plum-cake, gave one to each of the children,
and kept one for herself.

While the boy was eating, he observed that this hedge was very high
and thick, and that there was a great hollow in the trunk of the old
thorn-tree, and he heard a twittering, as if there was a nest
somewhere inside; so he thrust his head in, twisted himself round, and
looked up.

It was a very great thorn-tree, and the hollow was so large that two
or three boys could have stood upright in it; and when he got used to
the dim light in that brown, still place, he saw that a good way above
his head there was a nest,-- rather a curious one, too, for it was as
large as a pair of blackbirds would have built,-- and yet it was made
of fine white wool and delicate bits of moss; in short, it was like a
goldfinch's nest magnified three times.

Just then he thought he heard some little voices cry
His baby sister was asleep, and the nurse was reading a story-book, so
it could not have been either of them who called
said the boy
So he began to
wriggle and twist himself through, and just as he pulled in his last
foot, he looked up, and three heads which had been peeping over the
edge of the nest suddenly popped down again
said Jack, and he stood on
tiptoe and poked in one of his fingers
he continued; so, the hollow being rather rugged, he
managed to climb up and look in.

His eyes were not used yet to the dim light; but he was sure those
things were not birds,-- no. He poked them, and they took no notice;
but when he snatched one of them out of the nest, it gave a loud
squeak, and said
as plainly as possible, upon which
he was so frightened that he lost his footing, dropped the thing, and
slipped down himself. Luckily, he was not hurt, nor the thing either;
he could see it quite plainly now: it was creeping about like rather
an old baby, and had on a little frock and pinafore
exclaimed Jack to himself
So he looked down
he said; and he turned round, but the
hole was not on the other side; it was not on any side; it must have
closed up all on a sudden, while he was looking into the nest, for,
look whichever way he would, there was no hole at all, excepting a
very little one high up over the nest, which let in a very small
sunbeam.

Jack was very much astonished, but he went on eating his cake, and was
so delighted to see the young fairy climb up the side of the hollow
and scramble again into her nest, that he laughed heartily; upon which
all the nestlings popped up their heads, and, showing their pretty
white teeth, pointed at the slice of cake
said Jack
and he broke off a small piece, and
put it into the nest, climbing up to see them eat it.

These young fairies were a long time dividing and munching the cake,
and before they had finished, it began to be rather dark, for a black
cloud came over and covered the little sunbeam. At the same time the
wind rose, and rocked the boughs, and made the old tree creak and
tremble. Then there was thunder and rain, and the little fairies were
so frightened that they got out of the nest and crept into Jack's
pockets. One got into each waistcoat pocket, and the other two were
very comfortable, for he took out his handkerchief and made room for
them in the pocket of his jacket.

It got darker and darker, till at last Jack could only just see the
hole, and it seemed to be a very long way off. Every time he looked at
it, it was farther off, and at last he saw a thin crescent moon
shining through it
he said; and he took out one of
the fattest of the young fairies, and held it up towards the hole
said he
answered the young fairy
Jack was surprised to hear her speak in this sensible manner, and in
the light of the moon he looked at her very attentively
said he
said the fairy
said Jack
replied the fairy
said Jack
answered the fairy, with an air of superior wisdom
Jack laughed, put her in, and pulled out another
he said
said this fairy, very
sternly
said Jack
So he
whistled very loudly indeed
said another of them, peeping out
answered Jack
cried the last of the four
Jack thought he would rather have done a long-division sum than have
been obliged to whistle; but he could not help doing it when they told
him, and he felt something take hold of his legs again, and then give
him a jerk, which hoisted him on to its back, where he sat astride,
and wondered whether the thing was a pony; but it was not, for he
presently observed that it had a very slender neck, and then that it
was covered with feathers. It was a large bird, and he presently found
that they were rising towards the hole, which had become so very far
off, and in a few minutes she dashed through the hole, with Jack on
her back and all the fairies in his pockets.

It was so dark that he could see nothing, and he twined his arms round
the bird's neck, to hold on, upon which this agreeable fowl told him
not to be afraid, and said she hoped he was comfortable
replied Jack
replied the albatross (for she was an albatross
exclaimed Jack
replied the albatross
exclaimed Jack
said the albatross
And she continued to fly on in the dark sky
for a very long time
said Jack
replied the albatross; and just then she flew with a great bump
against something that met her in the air
said a gruff voice
answered the albatross,
sullenly
replied the voice
Thereupon a lantern
became visible, and Jack saw by the light of it a man, who looked old
and tired, and he was so transparent that you could see through him,
lantern and all
said the albatross
answered the Will-o'-the-wisp. "I am going down as fast
as I can; the storm blew me up, and I am never easy excepting in my
native swamps."

Jack might have taken more notice of Will, if the albatross had not
begun to light up. She did it in this way. First, one of her eyes
began to gleam with a beautiful green light, which cast its rays far
and near, and then, when it was as bright as a lamp, the other eye
began to shine, and the light of that eye was red. In short, she was
lighted up just like a vessel at sea.

Jack was so happy that he hardly knew which to look at first, there
really were so many remarkable things
said the albatross
She meant that the fairies snored, and so they did, in Jack's
pockets
continued the albatross
said Jack
continued the
albatross
said Jack; but he was not attending, because there was so
much to be seen.

In the first place, all the stars excepting a few large ones were
gone, and they looked frightened; and as it got lighter, one after the
other seemed to give a little start in the blue sky and go out. And
then Jack looked down and saw, as he thought, a great country, covered
with very jagged snow mountains with astonishingly sharp peaks. Here
and there he saw a very deep lake,-- at least he thought it was a lake;
but while he was admiring the mountains, there came an enormous crack
between two of the largest, and he saw the sun come rolling up among
them, and it seemed to be almost smothered
exclaimed Jack
said the albatross; and then they turned gold
color; and next they began to plunge and tumble, and every one of the
peaks put on a glittering crown; and next they broke themselves to
pieces, and began to drift away. In fact, Jack had been out all night,
and now it was morning
_Letter of
  the Ship's Company of H. M. S. S. Royalist to Captain W.
  T. Bate._


All this time the albatross kept dropping down and down like a stone,
till Jack was quite out of breath, and they fell or flew, whichever
you like to call it, straight through one of the great chasms which he
had thought were lakes, and he looked down, as he sat on the bird's
back, to see what the world is like when you hang a good way above it
at sunrise.

It was a very beautiful sight; the sheep and lambs were still fast
asleep on the green hills, and the sea-birds were asleep in long rows
upon the ledges of the cliffs, with their heads under their wings
asked the albatross
answered Jack
answered the albatross
answered Jack
said the bird
asked Jack
By this time the albatross was hovering about among the vessels,
making choice of one to take Jack and the fairies up the wonderful
river
she said
Jack would have liked very much to have a fine three-master, all to
himself; but then he considered that he did not know anything about
sails and rigging; he thought it would be just as well to be
contented with whatever the albatross might choose, so he let her set
him down in a beautiful little open boat, with a great carved
figure-head to it. There he seated himself in great state, and the
albatross perched herself on the next bench, and faced him
asked the albatross
said Jack; but he was not attending,-- he was thinking what a
fine thing it was to have such a curious boat all to himself
answered the bird
said Jack; and he took them out of his pockets,
and laid them down in a row before the albatross
said the bird
said Jack
replied the albatross
Jack put his arms round the neck of the bird, and hugged her; then she
spread her magnificent wings and sailed slowly away. At first he felt
very lonely, but in a few minutes he forgot that, because the little
boat began to swim so fast.

She was not sailing, for she had no sail, and he was not rowing, for
he had no oars; so I am obliged to call her motion swimming, because I
don't know of a better word. In less than a quarter of an hour they
passed close under the bows of a splendid three-decker, a seventy-gun
ship. The gannets who live in those parts had taken possession of
her, and she was so covered with nests that you could not have walked
one step on her deck without treading on them. The father birds were
aloft in the rigging, or swimming in the warm, green sea, and they
made such a clamor when they saw Jack that they nearly woke the
fairies,-- nearly, but not quite, for the little things turned round in
Jack's pockets, and sneezed, and began to snore again.

Then the boat swam past a fine brig. Some sea fairies had just flung
her cargo overboard, and were playing at leap-frog on deck. These were
not at all like Jack's own fairies; they were about the same height
and size as himself, and they had brown faces, and red flannel shirts
and red caps on. A large fleet of the pearly nautilus was collected
close under the vessel's lee. The little creatures were feasting on
what the sea fairies had thrown overboard, and Jack's boat, in its
eagerness to get on, went plunging through them so roughly that
several were capsized. Upon this the brown sea fairies looked over,
and called out angrily
and the boat stopped
said the fairy
sea-captain to Jack.

Jack touched his hat, and said
and then called out to his
boat
So it swam more slowly; and Jack, being by this time hungry, curled
himself up in the bottom of the boat, and fell asleep.

He dreamt directly about a fowl and some potatoes, and he ate a wing,
and then he ate a merry-thought, and then somebody said to him that he
had better not eat any more, but he did,-- he ate another wing; and
presently an apple-pie came, and he ate some of that, and then he ate
some more, and then he immediately woke
said Jack
and for more than
half an hour he scarcely noticed anything.

At last he lifted up his head, and saw straight before him two great
brown cliffs, and between them flowed in the wonderful river. Other
rivers flow out, but this river flowed in, and took with it far into
the land dolphins, sword-fish, mullet, sun-fish, and many other
strange creatures; and that is one reason why it was called the magic
river, or the wonderful river.

At first it was rather wide, and Jack was alarmed to see what
multitudes of soldiers stood on either side to guard the banks, and
prevent any person from landing.

He wondered how he should get the fairies on shore. However, in about
an hour the river became much narrower, and then Jack saw that the
guards were not real soldiers, but rose-colored flamingoes. There they
stood, in long regiments, among the reeds, and never stirred. They are
the only foot-soldiers the fairies have in their pay; they are very
fierce, and never allow anything but a fairy ship to come up the
river.

They guarded the banks for miles and miles, many thousands of them,
standing a little way into the water among the flags and rushes; but
at last there were no more reeds and no soldier guards, for the stream
became narrower, and flowed between such steep rocks that no one could
possibly have climbed them
said the knight
Said the squire
What said the old clock in the tower
quoth the dame
She said
What said the new clock in her bower
Jack looked at these hot, brown rocks, first on the left bank and then
on the right, till he was quite tired; but at last the shore on the
right bank became flat, and he saw a beautiful little bay, where the
water was still, and where grass grew down to the brink.

He was so much pleased at this change, that he cried out hastily
He had
no sooner spoken than the boat altered her course, as if somebody had
been steering her, and began to make for the bay as fast as she could
go
thought Jack
As they drew towards the strand, the water got so shallow that you
could see crabs and lobsters walking about at the bottom. At last the
boat's keel grated on the pebbles; and just as Jack began to think of
jumping on shore, he saw two little old women approaching, and gently
driving a white horse before them.

The horse had panniers, one on each side; and when his feet were in
the water he stood still; and Jack said to one of the old women
asked one old woman of the other
repeated Jack, for he thought the
first old woman might have been deaf. She was very handsomely
dressed in a red satin gown, and did not look in the least like a
washer-woman, though it afterwards appeared that she was one
she replied; and the other, who had a
blue satin cloak, answered
and then they began to
empty the panniers of many small blue, and pink, and scarlet shirts,
and coats, and stockings; and when they had made them into two little
heaps they knelt down and began to wash them in the river, taking no
notice of him whatever.

Jack stared at them. They were not much taller than himself, and they
were not taking the slightest care of their handsome clothes; then he
looked at the old white horse, who was hanging his head over the
lovely clear water with a very discontented air.

At last the blue washer-woman said
said the other
Then she
glanced at Jack, who was still sitting in the boat, and said
replied Jack, a little astonished at this speech.
And the red and blue washer-women wrung out the clothes, put them
again into the panniers, and taking the old horse by the bridle, began
gently to lead him away
thought Jack
So he sprang ashore, and said to the boat
and he ran after the old women, calling to them
cried the red-coated old woman, and the horse stopped, while the
blue-coated woman repeated
asked Jack
she answered
While Jack was wondering what she meant, the other said
and the horse went
on
said the other
cried the first.

Upon this, to Jack's intense astonishment, the old horse stopped, and
said, speaking through his nose
exclaimed Jack
observed one of the
washer-women
said the horse, and began to jog on
said Jack, upon which the horse laughed, and Jack
was quite alarmed
observed the blue-coated
woman
answered Jack
observed the old horse; and though he spoke the
words of mankind, it was not in a voice like theirs. Still Jack felt
that his was just the natural tone for a horse, and that it did not
arise only from the length of his nose
he continued
said Jack, very earnestly
proceeded the white horse
said Jack, in an anxious tone
one of the women broke in
said the horse
continued the old woman
The old horse was so comforted by this kind speech, that he pricked up
his ears and quickened his pace considerably
observed one washer-woman
said the other, as if apologizing for the poor old horse
exclaimed Jack
answered one of the women
said the horse, in a querulous tone
observed the red old
woman
said Jack
inquired the old woman
answered Jack
she replied
Jack was a little alarmed, and answered that he had never been unkind
himself to horses, and he was glad that Boney bore no malice
said one of the women
said Jack
answered the old woman
said Jack
she answered
said Jack
said the old lady, significantly
said Jack
At this moment they came to a beautiful meadow, and the old horse
stopped, and, turning to the blue-coated woman, said
Upon this Faxa snatched Jack's cap
off his head, and in a very active manner jumped over a little ditch,
and gathering some clover, presently brought it back full, handing it
to the old horse with great civility
observed the old horse
observed the red-coated woman.

Just then a little man, dressed like a groom, came running up, out of
breath
he exclaimed to the red-coated woman
The red-coated woman, without a word, went off with the groom, and
Jack thought he would go with them, for this Lady Betty could surely
tell him whether the country was called Fairyland, or whether he must
get into his boat and go farther. He did not like either to hear the
way in which Faxa and Dow talked about their works and their weights;
so he asked Faxa to give him his cap, which she did, and he heard a
curious sort of little ticking noise as he came close to her, which
startled him
thought Jack
said Faxa, rather sharply
said Jack, a little ashamed of having listened
observed the old horse, in a melancholy voice,
and with a deep sigh
Jack was more and more startled, and so glad to get his cap and run
after the groom and Dow to find Lady Betty, that he might be with
ordinary human beings again; but when he got up to them, he found that
Lady Betty was a beautiful brown mare! She was lying in a languid and
rather affected attitude, with a load of fresh hay before her, and
two attendants, one of whom stood holding a parasol over her head, and
the other was fanning her
said the brown mare
said Dow
Just then Lady Betty observed Jack, and said
The attentive groom instantly started forward, but Jack was too nimble
for him; he ran and ran with all his might, and only wished he had
never left the boat. But still he heard the groom behind him; and in
fact the groom caught him at last, and held him so fast that
struggling was of no use at all
he exclaimed, as he recovered breath
asked Jack
exclaimed the groom
said Jack
he added
exclaimed the groom, stepping back with surprise
said Jack
Then, as the
groom seemed no longer to be angry, he went on
said the
groom
asked Jack
answered the groom
said Jack
answered the
groom
Jack, in fact, heard the violent ringing of a bell at some distance;
and when the groom began to run, he ran beside him, for he thought he
should like to see the palace. As they ran, people gathered from all
sides,-- fields, cottages, mills,-- till at last there was a little
crowd, among whom Jack saw Dow and Faxa, and they were all making for
a large house, the wide door of which was standing open. Jack stood
with the crowd, and peeped in. There was a woman sitting inside upon a
rocking-chair,-- a tall, large woman, with a gold-colored gown on,-- and
beside her stood a table, covered with things that looked like keys
said he to Faxa, who was standing close to
him
answered Faxa
said Jack
she answered
repeated Faxa
Jack looked in, and saw the people pass in and stand close by the
woman. One after the other she took by the chin with her left hand,
and with her right hand found a key that pleased her. It seemed to
Jack that there was a tiny key-hole in the back of their heads, and
that she put the key in and wound them up
said the groom
said Jack
he persisted
exclaimed Jack
said Faxa, quietly. And Jack was so frightened that he
set off, and ran back towards the river with all his might. Many of
the people called to him to stop, but they could not run after him,
because they wanted winding up. However, they would certainly have
caught him if he had not been very quick, for before he got to the
river he heard behind him the footsteps of those who had been first
attended to by the Queen, and he had only just time to spring into the
boat when they reached the edge of the water.

No sooner was he on board than the boat swung round, and got out again
into the middle of the stream; but he could not feel safe till not
only was there a long reach of water between him and the shore, but
till he had gone so far down the river that the beautiful bay had
passed out of sight, and the sun was going down. By this time he began
to feel very tired and sleepy; so, having looked at his fairies, and
found that they were all safe and fast asleep, he laid down in the
bottom of the boat, and fell into a doze, and then into a dream
The dove laid some little sticks,
    Then began to coo;
  The gnat took his trumpet up
    To play the day through;
  The pie chattered soft and long --
    But that she always does;
  The bee did all he had to do,
    And only said
When Jack at length opened his eyes, he found that it was night, for
the full moon was shining; but it was not at all a dark night, for he
could see distinctly some black birds, that looked like ravens. They
were sitting in a row on the edge of the boat.

Now that he had fairies in his pockets, he could understand
bird-talk, and he heard one of these ravens saying
said another
And she heaved up a deep
sigh.

Jack lay still, and thought he had better pretend to be asleep; but
they soon noticed that his eyes were open, and one of them presently
walked up his leg and bowed, and asked if he was hungry.

Jack said
replied the raven
Then she
hopped off his leg, and Jack sat up
asked another of the ravens
Jack felt in his pockets. Yes, they were all safe; but he did not take
any of them out, lest the ravens should snatch at them
continued the raven, pretending to listen
said Jack
asked the blackest of the ravens
said Jack
said all the ravens at once
said Jack
asked the ravens
said Jack
The ravens were very much surprised at this, and one of them said
said Jack, laughing
Upon this all the ravens hung down their heads, and looked very much
ashamed; for there is nothing that birds hate so much as to be laughed
at, and they believed that Jack was saying this to mock them, and that
he knew what they had come for. So first one and then another hopped
to the other end of the boat and flew away, till at last there was
only one left, and she appeared to be out of spirits, and did not
speak again till he spoke to her
said Jack
said the raven; and she stooped and picked up a
long thing with her beak, which she threw out, and then looked over
Jack was so thrown off his guard that he snatched one fairy out, just
to make sure that it was safe. It was the one with the mustache; and,
alas! in one instant the raven flew at it, got it out of his hand, and
pecked off its head before it had time to wake or Jack to rescue it.
Then, as she slowly rose, she croaked, and said to Jack
and she flew to the bough of a tree,
where she finished eating the fairy, and threw his little empty coat
into the river.

On this Jack began to cry bitterly, and to think what a foolish boy he
had been. He was the more sorry because he did not even know that
poor little fellow's name. But he had heard the others calling by name
to their companions, and very grand names they were too. One was
Jovinian,-- he was a very fierce-looking gentleman; the other two were
Roxaletta and Mopsa.

Presently, however, Jack forgot to be unhappy, for two of the moons
went down, and then the sun rose, and he was delighted to find that
however many moons there might be, there was only one sun, even in the
country of the wonderful river.

So on and on they went; but the river was very wide, and the waves
were boisterous. On the right brink was a thick forest of trees, with
such heavy foliage that a little way off they looked like a bank,
green, and smooth, and steep; but as the light became clearer, Jack
could see here and there the great stems, and see creatures like
foxes, wild boars, and deer, come stealing down to drink in the
river.

It was very hot here; not at all like the spring weather he had left
behind. And as the low sunbeams shone into Jack's face he said
hastily, without thinking of what would occur
No sooner said than the boat began to make for the left bank, and the
nearer they got towards it the more beautiful it became; but also the
more stormy were the reaches of water they had to traverse.

A lovely country indeed! It sloped gently down to the water's edge,
and beautiful trees were scattered over it, soft, mossy grass grew
everywhere, great old laburnum trees stretched their boughs down in
patches over the water, and higher up camellias, almost as large as
hawthorns, grew together and mingled their red and white flowers.

The country was not so open as a park,-- it was more like a half-cleared
woodland; but there was a wide space just where the boat was steering
for, that had no trees, only a few flowering shrubs. Here groups of
strange-looking people were bustling about, and there were shrill
fifes sounding, and drums.

Farther back he saw rows of booths or tents under the shade of the
trees.

In another place some people dressed like gypsies had made fires of
sticks just at the skirts of the woodland, and were boiling their
pots. Some of these had very gaudy tilted carts, hung all over with
goods, such as baskets, brushes, mats, little glasses, pottery, and
beads.

It seemed to be a kind of fair, to which people had gathered from all
parts; but there was not one house to be seen. All the goods were
either hung upon trees or collected in strange-looking tents.

The people were not all of the same race; indeed, he thought the only
human beings were the gypsies, for the folks who had tents were no
taller than himself.

How hot it was that morning! and as the boat pushed itself into a
little creek, and made its way among the beds of yellow and purple
iris which skirted the brink, what a crowd of dragon-flies and large
butterflies rose from them
cried Jack to the boat; and at that instant such
a splendid moth rose slowly, that he sprang on shore after it, and
quite forgot the fair and the people in his desire to follow it.

The moth settled on a great red honey-flower, and he stole up to look
at it. As large as a swallow, it floated on before him. Its wings were
nearly black, and they had spots of gold on them.

When it rose again Jack ran after it, till he found himself close to
the rows of tents where the brown people stood; and they began to cry
out to him
and they crowded
about him, so that he soon lost sight of the moth, and forgot
everything else in his surprise at the booths.

They were full of splendid things,-- clocks and musical boxes, strange
china ornaments, embroidered slippers, red caps, and many kinds of
splendid silks and small carpets. In other booths were swords and
dirks, glittering with jewels; and the chatter of the people when they
talked together was not in a language that Jack could understand.

Some of the booths were square, and evidently made of common canvas,
for when you went into them, and the sun shone, you could distinctly
see the threads.

But scattered a little farther on in groups were some round tents,
which were far more curious. They were open on all sides, and
consisted only of a thick canopy overhead, which was supported by one
beautiful round pillar in the middle.

Outside the canopy was white or brownish; but when Jack stood under
these tents, he saw that they were lined with splendid flutings of
brown or pink silk: what looked like silk, at least, for it was
impossible to be sure whether these were real tents or gigantic
mushrooms.

They varied in size, also, as mushrooms do, and in shape: some were
large enough for twenty people to stand under them, and had flat tops
with a brown lining; others had dome-shaped roofs; these were lined
with pink, and would only shelter six or seven.

The people who sold in these tents were as strange as their neighbors;
each had a little high cap on his head, in shape just like a beehive,
and it was made of straw, and had a little hole in front. In fact,
Jack very soon saw bees flying in and out, and it was evident that
these people had their honey made on the premises. They were chiefly
selling country produce. They had cheeses so large as to reach to
their waists, and the women trundled them along as boys do their
hoops. They sold a great many kinds of seed, too, in wooden bowls, and
cakes and good things to eat, such as gilt gingerbread. Jack bought
some of this, and found it very nice indeed. But when he took out his
money to pay for it, the little man looked rather strangely at it, and
turned it over with an air of disgust. Then Jack saw him hand it to
his wife, who also seemed to dislike it; and presently Jack observed
that they followed him about, first on one side, then on the other.
At last, the little woman slipped her hand into his pocket, and Jack,
putting his hand in directly, found his sixpence had been returned
he said.

The little woman put her hands behind her
she
said
said Jack, a good deal surprised
continued the little woman
said Jack.

The good little woman laughed and blushed
she observed, politely, but did not
ask for it.

Jack had a dog-whistle, so he took it off and gave it to her
she said
So she made a pretty little courtesy, and went away to her customers.

There were some very strange creatures also, about the same height as
Jack, who had no tents, and seemed there to buy, not to sell. Yet they
looked poorer than the other folks, and they were also very cross and
discontented; nothing pleased them. Their clothes were made of moss,
and their mantles of feathers; and they talked in a queer whistling
tone of voice, and carried their skinny little children on their backs
and on their shoulders.

They were treated with great respect by the people in the tents; and
when Jack asked his friend to whom he had given the whistle what they
were, and where they got so much money as they had, she replied that
they lived over the hills, and were afraid to come in their best
clothes. They were rich and powerful at home, and they came shabbily
dressed, and behaved humbly, lest their enemies should envy them. It
was very dangerous, she said, to fairies to be envied.

Jack wanted to listen to their strange whistling talk, but he could
not for the noise and cheerful chattering of the brown folks, and more
still for the screaming and talking of parrots.

Among the goods were hundreds of splendid gilt cages, which were hung
by long gold chains from the trees. Each cage contained a parrot and
his mate, and they all seemed to be very unhappy indeed.

The parrots could talk, and they kept screaming to the discontented
women to buy things for them, and trying very hard to attract
attention.

One old parrot made himself quite conspicuous by these efforts. He
flung himself against the wires of his cage, he squalled, he screamed,
he knocked the floor with his beak, till Jack and one of the customers
came running up to see what was the matter
cried the discontented woman
answered the parrot, sobbing
said the parrot's mate
answered the woman, more crossly than ever
Jack thought this was the queerest conversation he had ever heard in
his life; and he was still more surprised when the bird answered
replied the woman
sobbed the parrot
whined the cross woman
So saying, she went back to the tent to fetch her present
to the parrots; and as their cage was still swinging Jack put out his
hand to steady it for them, and the instant he did so they became
perfectly silent, and all the other parrots on that tree, who had been
flinging themselves about in their cages, left off screaming, and
became silent too.

The old parrot looked very cunning. His cage hung by such a long gold
chain that it was just on a level with Jack's face, and so many odd
things had happened that day that it did not seem more odd than usual
to hear him say, in a tone of great astonishment
said Jack
said the parrot
said a great many other parrots. Jack agreed to stay a
little while, upon which they all thanked him
said the
old parrot.

Jack did not know how this could have told him, so he only answered
observed the parrot, in a confidential tone
answered a chorus of other parrots
replied Jack
said the parrot, drawing a film over his eyes, and
pretending to be asleep. At that moment his friend in the moss
petticoat and feather cloak came up with a little measure of maize,
and poured it into the cage
she said
answered the parrot, sobbing again
said Jack
And he drew it
out, and pushed it between the wires.

The parrot and his wife were in a great hurry to get Jack's
handkerchief. They pulled it in very hastily; but instead of using it
they rolled it up into a ball, and the parrot-wife tucked it under her
wing
said she
observed the parrot to Jack
By this Jack was sure that the parrot really was a fairy himself, and
he listened to what he had to say the more attentively
That handkerchief
  Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
  She was a charmer, and could almost read
  The thoughts of people.-- _Othello
said the parrot
said Jack
continued the parrot
observed the parrot-wife, scornfully
repeated the old parrot
There she was indeed, almost close at hand. She had a little cart; her
goods were hung all about it, and a small horse drew it slowly on, and
stopped when she got a customer.

Several gypsy children were with her, and as the people came running
together over the grass to see her goods, she sang a curious kind of
song, which made them wish to buy them.

Jack turned from the parrot's cage as she came up. He had heard her
singing a little way off, and now, before she began again, he felt
that already her searching eyes had found him out, and taken notice
that he was different from the other people.

When she began to sing her selling song, he felt a most curious
sensation. He felt as if there were some cobwebs before his face, and
he put up his hand as if to clear them away. There were no real
cobwebs, of course; and yet he again felt as if they floated from the
gypsy woman to him, like gossamer threads, and attracted him towards
her. So he gazed at her, and she at him, till Jack began to forget how
the parrot had warned him.

He saw her baby too, wondered whether it was heavy for her to carry,
and wished he could help her. I mean, he saw that she had a baby on
her arm. It was wrapped in a shawl, and had a handkerchief over its
face. She seemed very fond of it, for she kept hushing it; and Jack
softly moved nearer and nearer to the cart, till the gypsy woman
smiled, and suddenly began to sing,--

  My good man -- he's an old, old man
    And my good man got a fall,
  To buy me a bargain so fast he ran
    When he heard the gypsies call
My old man, he has money and land,
    And a young, young wife am I.
  Let him put the penny in my white hand
    When he hears the gypsies cry
When the gypsy had finished her song, Jack felt as if he was covered
all over with cobwebs; but he could not move away, and he did not mind
them now. All his wish was to please her, and get close to her; so
when she said, in a soft, wheedling voice
he was just going to answer that he would
buy anything she recommended, when, to his astonishment and
displeasure, for he thought it very rude, the parrot suddenly burst
into a violent fit of coughing, which made all the customers stare
he said, in a most impertinent tone of
voice; and then he began to beat time with his foot, and sing, or
rather scream out, an extremely saucy imitation of the gypsy's song,
and all his parrot friends in the other cages joined in the chorus.

  My fair lady's a dear, dear lady --
    I walked by her side to woo.
  In a garden alley, so sweet and shady,
    She answered
Quoth my dear lady
At first the gypsy did not seem to know where that mocking song came
from, but when she discovered that it was her prisoner, the old
parrot, who was thus daring to imitate her, she stood silent and
glared at him, and her face was almost white with rage.

When he came to the end of the verse he pretended to burst into a
violent fit of sobbing and crying, and screeched out to his wife
Upon this the other parrot pulled Jack's handkerchief from under her
wing, hobbled up, and began, with a great show of zeal, to wipe his
horny beak with it. But this was too much for the gypsy; she took a
large brush from her cart, and flung it at the cage with all her
might.

This set it violently swinging backwards and forwards, but did not
stop the parrot, who screeched out
And then he began to sing another verse in the most impudent
tone possible, and with a voice that seemed to ring through Jack's
head, and almost pierce it:--

  Yet my fair lady's my own, own lady,
    For I passed another day;
  While making her moan, she sat all alone,
    And thus and thus did she say
Quoth my dear lady
screeched the parrot-wife
Jack was delighted when she managed slowly to say this long word with
her black tongue, and he burst out laughing. In the mean time a good
many of the brown people came running together, attracted by the noise
of the parrots and the rage of the gypsy, who flung at his cage, one
after the other, all the largest things she had in her cart. But
nothing did the parrot any harm; the more violently his cage swung,
the louder he sang, till at last the wicked gypsy seized her poor
little young baby, who was lying in her arms, rushed frantically at
the cage as it flew swiftly through the air towards her, and struck at
it with the little creature's head
cried Jack, and all the small mothers who were standing near with
their skinny children on their shoulders, screamed out with terror and
indignation; but only for one instant, for the handkerchief flew off
that had covered its face, and was caught in the wires of the cage,
and all the people saw that it was not a real baby at all, but a
bundle of clothes, and its head was a turnip.

Yes, a turnip! You could see that as plainly as possible, for though
the green leaves had been cut off, their stalks were visible through
the lace cap that had been tied on it.

Upon this all the crowd pressed closer, throwing her baskets, and
brushes, and laces, and beads at the gypsy, and calling out
began the gypsy; but baskets and
brushes flew at her so fast that she was obliged to sit down on the
grass and hold up the sham baby to screen her face.

While this was going on, Jack felt that the cobwebs which had seemed
to float about his face were all gone; he did not care at all any more
about the gypsy, and began to watch the parrots with great attention.

He observed that when the handkerchief stuck between the cage wires,
the parrots caught it, and drew it inside; and then Jack saw the
cunning old bird himself lay it on the floor, fold it crosswise like
a shawl, and put it on his wife.

Then she jumped upon the perch, and held it with one foot, looking
precisely like an old lady with a parrot's head. Then he folded Jack's
handkerchief in the same way, put it on, and got upon the perch beside
his wife, screaming out, in his most piercing tone
Now the gypsy did not care at all what those inferior people thought
of her, and she was calmly counting out their money, to return it; but
she was very desirous to make Jack forget her behavior, and had begun
to smile again, and tell him she had only been joking, when the parrot
spoke, and, looking up, she saw the two birds sitting side by side,
and the parrot-wife was screaming in her mate's ear, though neither of
them was at all deaf
So saying, the parrot-wife whisked herself round on the perch, and lo!
in the corner of the handkerchief were seen some curious letters,
marked in red. When the crowd saw these, they drew a little farther
off, and glanced at one another with alarm
screamed the old parrot in
answer
said the gypsy, rising, and going with
slow steps to the cage, and speaking cautiously
said the parrot
answered Jack
said the gypsy, trembling
continued the parrot
said Jack, considering
cried the gypsy, as the old parrot made a peck at the strange
letters
replied the parrot
answered the gypsy
said the old parrot, tossing his shawl off
cried the gypsy, in terror
answered the parrot
By this time the parrots all around had become perfectly silent, and
none of the people ventured to say a word, for they feared the malice
of the gypsy. She was trembling dreadfully, and her dark eyes, which
had been so bright and piercing, had become dull and almost dim; but
when she found there was no help for it, she said
answered the parrot
answered the gypsy
answered the brave old parrot; and he poked
Jack's handkerchief out to her through the wires.

The wondering crowd stood by to look, and the gypsy bandaged her eyes
tightly with the handkerchief; and then, stooping low, she began to
murmur something and clap her hands -- softly at first, but by degrees
more and more violently. The noise was meant to drown the words she
muttered; but as she went on clapping, the bottom of cage after cage
fell clattering down. Out flew the parrots by hundreds, screaming and
congratulating one another; and there was such a deafening din that
not only the sound of her spell, but the clapping of her hands, was
quite lost in it.

But all this time Jack was very busy; for the moment the gypsy had
tied up her eyes, the old parrot snatched the real handkerchief off
his wife's shoulders, and tied it round her neck. Then she pushed out
her head through the wires, and the old parrot called to Jack, and
said
Jack took the ends of the handkerchief, pulled terribly hard, and
stopped
screamed the old parrot
cried Jack
cried the parrot
Well, Jack did pull, and he actually did pull her head off! nearly
tumbling backward himself as he did it; but he saw what the whole
thing meant then, for there was another head inside,-- a fairy's head.

Jack flung down the old parrot's head and great beak, for he saw that
what he had to do was to clear the fairy of its parrot covering. The
poor little creature seemed nearly dead, it was so terribly squeezed
in the wires. It had a green gown or robe on, with an ermine collar;
and Jack got hold of this dress, stripped the fairy out of the parrot
feathers, and dragged her through,-- velvet robe, and crimson girdle,
and little yellow shoes. She was very much exhausted, but a kind brown
woman took her instantly, and laid her in her bosom. She was a
splendid little creature, about half a foot long
cried the parrot. Jack glanced round, and saw
that not all the parrots were free yet, the gypsy was still muttering
her spell.

He returned the handkerchief to the parrot, who put it round his own
neck, and again Jack pulled. But oh! what a tough old parrot that was,
and how Jack tugged before his cunning head would come off! It did,
however, at last; and just as a fine fairy was pulled through, leaving
his parrot skin and the handkerchief behind him, the gypsy untied her
eyes, and saw what Jack had done
she screamed, in despair
answered Jack
But the gypsy's spell would only open places where she had confined
fairies, and no fairies were in the cage now
she screamed
But it was indeed too late. The parrots had been wheeling in the air,
hundreds and hundreds of them, high above her head; and as she ceased
speaking, she fell shuddering on the ground, drew her cloak over her
face, and down they came, swooping in one immense flock, and settled
so thickly all over her that she was completely covered; from her
shoes to her head not an atom of her was to be seen.

All the people stood gravely looking on. So did Jack, but he could not
see much for the fluttering of the parrots, nor hear anything for
their screaming voices; but at last he made one of the cross people
hear when he shouted to her
she replied
said Jack; but he had no time for more questions.

The screaming and fighting, and tossing about of little bits of cloth
and cotton, ceased; a black lump heaved itself up from the ground
among the parrots; and as they flew aside, an ugly great condor, with
a bare neck, spread out its wings, and, skimming the ground, sailed
slowly away
exclaimed the
parrot fairy
Jack set him there; and his little wife, who had recovered herself,
sprang from her friend the brown woman, and sat on the other shoulder.
He then ran on,-- the tribe of brown people and mushroom people, and
the feather-coated folks running too,-- after the great black bird, who
skimmed slowly on before them till she got to the gypsy carts, when
out rushed the gypsies, armed with poles, milking-stools, spades, and
everything they could get hold of to beat back the people and the
parrots from hunting their relation, who had folded her tired wings,
and was skulking under a cart, with ruffled feathers and a scowling
eye.

Jack was so frightened at the violent way in which the gypsies and the
other tribes were knocking each other about, that he ran off, thinking
he had seen enough of such a dangerous country.

As he passed the place where that evil-minded gypsy had been changed,
he found the ground strewed with little bits of her clothes. Many
parrots were picking them up, and poking them into the cage where the
handkerchief was; and presently another parrot came with a lighted
brand, which she had pulled from one of the gypsies' fires
said the fairy on Jack's shoulder, when he saw his
friend push the brand between the wires of what had been his cage, and
set the gypsy's handkerchief on fire, and all the bits of her clothes
with it
he observed, as Jack
went on
So Jack moved away. He was tired of the noise and confusion; and the
sun was just setting as he reached the little creek where his boat
lay.

Then the parrot fairy and his wife sprang down, and kissed their hands
to him as he stepped on board, and pushed the boat off. He saw, when
he looked back, that a great fight was still going on; so he was glad
to get away, and he wished his two friends good-by, and set off, the
old parrot fairly calling after him
Then they again thanked him for
his good help, and sprang into a tree, and the boat began to go down
the wonderful river
thought Jack
And after he had eaten a good supper of what the
parrots had brought, he felt so tired and sleepy that he laid down in
the boat, and presently fell fast asleep. His fairies were sound
asleep too in his pockets, and nothing happened of the least
consequence; so he slept comfortably till morning
quoth the auld hound
Soon after sunrise they came to a great city, and it was perfectly
still. There were grand towers and terraces, wharves, too, and a
large market, but there was nobody anywhere to be seen. Jack thought
that might be because it was so early in the morning; and when the
boat ran itself up against a wooden wharf and stopped, he jumped
ashore, for he thought this must be the end of his journey. A
delightful town it was, if only there had been any people in it! The
market-place was full of stalls, on which were spread toys, baskets,
fruit, butter, vegetables, and all the other things that are usually
sold in a market.

Jack walked about in it. Then he looked in at the open doors of the
houses, and at last, finding that they were all empty, he walked into
one, looked at the rooms, examined the picture-books, rang the bells,
and set the musical-boxes going. Then, after he had shouted a good
deal, and tried in vain to make some one hear, he went back to the
edge of the river where his boat was lying, and the water was so
delightfully clear and calm, that he thought he would bathe. So he
took off his clothes, and folding them very carefully, so as not to
hurt the fairies, laid them down beside a hay-cock, and went in, and
ran about and paddled for a long time,-- much longer than there was any
occasion for; but then he had nothing to do.

When at last he had finished, he ran to the hay-cock and began to
dress himself; but he could not find his stockings, and after looking
about for some time he was obliged to put on his clothes without them,
and he was going to put his boots on his bare feet, when, walking to
the other side of the hay-cock, he saw a little old woman about as
large as himself. She had a pair of spectacles on, and she was
knitting.

She looked so sweet-tempered that Jack asked her if she knew anything
about his stockings
said she
JACK'S NEW FRIEND
PAGE 82
said Jack
said the woman
said Jack
continued the little
woman
So she took
out a saucer full of honey, a roll of bread, and a cup of milk
said Jack
said the little woman, softly; and she went on knitting, and
Jack began to eat the breakfast
said Jack
said the old woman
asked Jack.

The little woman took no notice; but presently she had finished a
beautiful pair of stockings, and she handed them to Jack, and said
said Jack
asked the fairy woman
said Jack, putting them on
said the woman
She gave Jack such a strange look when she said this, that he was
afraid to take them, and answered
she answered
said Jack; for she looked so sweet-tempered that he could
not help trusting her
repeated the fairy
said Jack
said the fairy woman
When Jack heard this, he pulled off the beautiful stockings, and laid
them on the old woman's lap. Upon this she burst out crying, as if
her heart would break
said Jack
said the little woman
said Jack
said the fairy woman
So saying, the little woman ran off towards the town, wringing her
hands, and Jack ran beside her
he said
cried the fairy woman
Now Jack had nothing on his feet, so he left the poor little woman to
run into the town by herself, and went back to put his boots on. They
were very uncomfortable, as he had no stockings; but he did not much
mind that, and he counted his money. There was the half-crown that his
grandmamma had given him on his birthday, there was a shilling, a
sixpence, and two pence, besides a silver fourpenny-piece which he had
forgotten. He then marched into the town; and now it was quite full of
people,-- all of them little men and women about his own height. They
thought he was somebody of consequence, and they called out to him to
buy their goods. And he bought some stockings, and said
So they showed him the way to the slave-market, and there whole rows
of odd-looking little people were sitting, while in front of them
stood the slaves.

Now Jack had observed as he came along how very disrespectful the dogs
of that town were to the people. They had a habit of going up to them
and smelling at their legs, and even gnawing their feet as they sat
before the little tables selling their wares; and what made this more
surprising was that the people did not always seem to find out when
they were being gnawed. But the moment the dogs saw Jack they came and
fawned on him, and two old hounds followed him all the way to the
slave-market; and when he took a seat one of them laid down at his
feet, and said
said the other hound
asked Jack
said the hound
While the hound was telling this story Jack looked about, but he did
not see one slave who was in the least like his poor little friend,
and he was beginning to be afraid that he should not find her, when he
heard two people talking together
said one
answered a very cross-looking old man
Jack, on hearing this, whispered to the hound at his feet
answered the hound; and he stole softly
out of the market, Jack following him
So useful it is to have money, heigh ho!
    So useful it is to have money!

  A. H. CLOUGH.


The old hound went straight through the town, smelling Clink's
footsteps, till he came into a large field of barley; and there,
sitting against a sheaf, for it was harvest time, they found
Clink-of-the-Hole. He was a very ugly little brown man, and he was
smoking a pipe in the shade; while crouched near him was the poor
little woman, with her hands spread before her face
said Clink to Jack
said Jack
asked Clink, civilly
answered Jack
said Clink
Here he
pointed to the poor little woman, and said
said Jack, sitting down
said Clink
said Jack, taking out his shilling.

When Clink saw the shilling he changed color, and said, very
earnestly
said Jack, carelessly.

Clink looked hard at the shilling, and so did the fairy woman, and
Jack let them look some time, for he amused himself with throwing it
up several times and catching it. At last he put it back in his
pocket, and then Clink heaved a deep sigh. Then Jack took out a penny,
and began to toss that up, upon which, to his great surprise, the
little brown man fell on his knees, and said
said Jack, cunningly
said the brown man,
wiping his eyes
said Jack
inquired Clink, trembling
with eagerness
answered Jack
replied the brown man
repeated Jack; and the poor little woman wept bitterly, but
she said
asked Jack; but she only hung down her head and cried
said the brown man. But when Jack
took out the shilling, and said
his eyes actually shot out sparks, he was so eager
he said to the fairy woman
answered the fairy woman
The brown man, on hearing this, rose up in a rage, and was just going
to strike her a terrible blow, when Jack cried out
and took
out his half-crown
said he; and the fairy woman answered
Upon this Clink drew a long breath, and his eyes grew bigger and
bigger as he gazed at the half-crown
said Jack
said the brown man. And he made such a low bow, as he
took the money, that his head actually knocked the ground. Then he
jumped up; and, as if he was afraid Jack should repent of his bargain,
he ran off towards the hole in the hill with all his might, shouting
for joy as he went
said Jack
said the fairy woman, gently
said Jack
answered the little old
woman
said Jack
The fairy woman laughed when Jack said this, and she had such a sweet
laugh that he loved to hear it; but she took the shilling, and trudged
off to the town, and he went back to the boat, his hound running after
him.

He was a long time going, for he ran a good many times after
butterflies, and then he climbed up several trees; and altogether he
amused himself for such a long while that when he reached the boat his
fairy woman was there before him. So he stepped on board, the hound
followed, and the boat immediately began to swim on
said Jack to his slave
answered the fairy woman
And she took out of her pocket a little tiny piece of
purple ribbon, with a gold-colored satin edge, and a very small
tortoise-shell comb.

When Jack saw these he was vexed, and said
said the slave
So Jack did. And she pulled, and he pulled, and very soon the silk had
stretched till it was nearly as large as a handkerchief; and then she
shook it, and they pulled again
said Jack
So she shook it again, and gave it a twitch here and a pat there; and
then they pulled again, and the silk suddenly stretched so wide that
Jack was very nearly falling overboard. So Jack's slave pulled off her
ragged gown and apron, and put it on. It was a most beautiful robe of
purple silk; it had a gold border, and it just fitted her.

&lsqb;JACK'S SLAVE
said Jack's slave
PAGE 99
she said. And then she took out the little tortoise-shell
comb, pulled off her cap, and threw it into the river. She had a little
knot of soft, gray hair, and she let it down, and began to comb. And as
she combed the hair got much longer and thicker, till it fell in waves
all about her throat. Then she combed again, and it all turned
gold-color, and came tumbling down to her waist; and then she stood up
in the boat, and combed once more, and shook out the hair, and there was
such a quantity that it reached down to her feet, and she was so
covered with it that you could not see one bit of her, excepting her
eyes, which peeped out, and looked bright and full of tears.

Then she began to gather up her lovely locks; and when she had dried
her eyes with them, she said
So she threw back the hair from her face, and it was
a beautiful young face; and she looked so happy that Jack was glad he
had bought her with his half-crown,-- so glad that he could not help
crying, and the fair slave cried too; and then instantly the little
fairies woke, and sprang out of Jack's pockets. As they did so,
Jovinian cried out
and
Roxaletta said
but the third got on
Jack's knee, and took hold of the buttons of his waistcoat, and when
the lovely slave looked at her, she hid her face and blushed with
pretty childish shyness
said Jack's slave
said the little thing
said Jack
asked the slave
said Jack
Now, the instant these three fairies sprang out of Jack's pockets,
they got very much larger; in fact, they became fully grown,-- that is
to say, they measured exactly one foot one inch in height, which, as
most people know, is exactly the proper height for fairies of that
tribe. The two who had sprung out first were very beautifully dressed.
One had a green velvet coat, and a sword, the hilt of which was
incrusted with diamonds. The second had a white spangled robe, and the
loveliest rubies and emeralds round her neck and in her hair; but the
third, the one who sat on Jack's knee, had a white frock and a blue
sash on. She had soft, fat arms, and a face just like that of a sweet
little child.

When Jack's slave saw this, she took the little creature on her
knee, and said to her
And she answered, in a pretty lisping voice
answered the slave
So Jack let little Mopsa sit on his knee; and when he was tired of
admiring his slave, and wondering at the respect with which the other
two fairies treated her, and at their cleverness in getting
water-lilies for her, and fanning her with feathers, he curled himself
up in the bottom of the boat with his own little favorite, and taught
her how to play at cat's-cradle.

When they had been playing some time, and Mopsa was getting quite
clever at the game, the lovely slave said
said Jack
she replied
answered Jack
said the fairy woman
said Jack
said the fairy woman
said Jack
answered the fairy woman
Jack thought again, and was so long about it that at last the
beautiful slave said to him
Jack turned round in the boat, and saw a splendid range of purple
mountains, going up and up. They were very great and steep, each had a
crown of snow, and the sky was very red behind them, for the sun was
going down
said the slave
Jack looked, and saw that the river was spotted with rafts, on which
were crowded brown fairy sailors, each one with three green stripes on
his sleeve, which looked like good conduct marks. All these sailors
were chattering very fast, and the rafts were coming down to meet the
boat
said Jack
But the fairy woman only smiled, and Jack went
on
Then the fairy woman said
So she told Jack to lend her his knife, and with it she cut off a very
small piece of the skirt of her robe, and gave it to him
she said
In the night she told a story,
    In the night and all night through,
  While the moon was in her glory,
    And the branches dropped with dew.

  'Twas my life she told, and round it
    Rose the years as from a deep;
  In the world's great heart she found it,
    Cradled like a child asleep.

  In the night I saw her weaving
    By the misty moonbeam cold,
  All the weft her shuttle cleaving
    With a sacred thread of gold.

  Ah! she wept me tears of sorrow,
    Lulling tears so mystic sweet;
  Then she wove my last to-morrow,
    And her web lay at my feet.

  Of my life she made the story:
    I must weep -- so soon 'twas told!
  But your name did lend it glory,
    And your love its thread of gold!


By this time, as the sun had gone down, and none of the moons had
risen, it would have been dark but that each of the rafts was rigged
with a small mast that had a lantern hung to it.

By the light of these lanterns Jack saw crowds of little brown faces;
and presently many rafts had come up to the boat, which was now
swimming very slowly. Every sailor in every raft fastened to the
boat's side a silken thread; then the rafts were rowed to shore, and
the sailors jumped out, and began to tow the boat along.

&lsqb;A STORY.-- PAGE 106.&rsqb;

These crimson threads looked no stronger than the silk that ladies sew
with, yet by means of them the small people drew the boat along
merrily. There were so many of them that they looked like an army as
they marched in the light of the lanterns and torches. Jack thought
they were very happy, though the work was hard, for they shouted and
sang.

The fairy woman looked more beautiful than ever now, and far more
stately. She had on a band of precious stones to bind back her hair,
and they shone so brightly in the night that her features could be
clearly seen.

Jack's little favorite was fast asleep, and the other two fairies had
flown away. He was beginning to feel rather sleepy himself, when he
was roused by the voice of his free lady, who said to him
Jack opened his eyes very wide, but he was so much surprised that he
did not say a word
said the Queen
said Jack
said the Queen
inquired Jack; but the Queen blushed,
and pretended not to hear the question, so he repeated
said the Queen,
evasively
asked Jack
said the Queen
And now all the moons began to shine, and all the trees lighted
themselves up, for almost every leaf had a glowworm or a fire-fly on
it, and the water was full of fishes that had shining eyes. And now
they were close to the steep mountain side; and Jack looked and saw an
opening in it, into which the river ran. It was a kind of cave,
something like a long, long church with a vaulted roof, only the
pavement of it was that magic river, and a narrow towing-path ran on
either side.

As they entered the cave there was a hollow, murmuring sound, and the
Queen's crown became so bright that it lighted up the whole boat; at
the same time she began to tell Jack a wonderful story, which he liked
very much to hear, but every fresh thing she said he forgot what had
gone before; and at last, though he tried very hard to listen, he was
obliged to go to sleep; and he slept soundly, and never dreamed of
anything, till it was morning.

He saw such a curious sight when he woke! They had been going through
this underground cavern all night, and now they were approaching its
opening on the other side. This opening, because they were a good way
from it yet, looked like a lovely little round window of blue and
yellow and green glass, but as they drew on he could see far-off
mountains, blue sky, and a country all covered with sunshine.

He heard singing, too, such as fairies make; and he saw some beautiful
people, such as those fairies whom he had brought with him. They were
coming along the towing-path. They were all lady fairies; but they
were not very polite, for as each one came up she took a silken rope
out of a brown sailor's hand, and gave him a shove which pushed him
into the water. In fact, the water became filled with such swarms of
these sailors that the boat could hardly get on. But the poor little
brown fellows did not seem to mind this conduct, for they plunged and
shook themselves about, scattering a good deal of spray. Then they all
suddenly dived, and when they came up again they were ducks,-- nothing
but brown ducks, I assure you, with green stripes on their wings; and
with a great deal of quacking and floundering, they all began to swim
back again as fast as they could.

Then Jack was a good deal vexed, and he said to himself
so he stood up in the boat and
shouted
But
neither the Queen nor these new towers took the least notice, and
gradually the boat came out of that dim cave and entered Fairyland,
while the river became so narrow that you could hear the song of the
towers quite easily; those on the right bank sang the first verse, and
those on the left bank answered:--

  Drop, drop from the leaves of lign aloes,
    O honey-dew! drop from the tree.
  Float up through your clear river shallows,
    White lilies, beloved of the bee.

  Let the people, O Queen! say, and bless thee,
    Her bounty drops soft as the dew,
  And spotless in honor confess thee,
    As lilies are spotless in hue.

  On the roof stands yon white stork awaking,
    His feathers flush rosy the while,
  For, lo! from the blushing east breaking,
    The sun sheds the bloom of his smile.

  Let them boast of thy word
let them say
whispered the old hound, who was lying at Jack's feet
said Jack
said the hound
Jack was rather ashamed of the hound's rudeness in saying this; but
the Queen took no notice. And now they had reached a little
landing-place, which ran out a few feet into the river, and was
strewed thickly with cowslips and violets.

&lsqb;THE QUEEN
PAGE 114.&rsqb;

Here the boat stopped, and the Queen rose and got out.

Jack watched her. A whole crowd of one-foot-one fairies came down a
garden to meet her, and he saw them conduct her to a beautiful tent,
with golden poles and a silken covering; but nobody took the slightest
notice of him, or of little Mopsa, or of the hound, and after a long
silence the hound said
said Jack
asked the hound
answered Jack
replied the hound
asked Jack
said the hound
said Jack
So he walked up that beautiful garden till he came to the great tent.
A banquet was going on inside. All the one-foot-one fairies sat down
the sides of the table, and at the top sat the Queen on a larger
chair; and there were two empty chairs, one on each side of her.

Jack blushed; but the hound whispering again
he came slowly up the table towards the Queen, who
was saying, as he drew near
And she took no notice of Jack; so, though he could
not help feeling rather red and ashamed, he went and sat in the chair
beside her with Mopsa still on his shoulder. Mopsa laughed for joy
when she saw the feast. The Queen said
and some of the one-foot-one fairies cried out
Jack looked about, but there was no seat for Mopsa; and he was afraid
to let her run about on the floor, lest she should be hurt.

There was a very large dish standing before the Queen; for though the
people were small, the plates and dishes were exactly like those we
use, and of the same size.

This dish was raised on a foot, and filled with grapes and peaches.
Jack wondered at himself for doing it, but he saw no other place for
Mopsa; so he took out the fruit, laid it round the dish, and set his
own little one-foot-one in the dish.

Nobody looked in the least surprised; and there she sat very happily,
biting an apple with her small white teeth.

Then, as they brought him nothing to eat, Jack helped himself from
some of the dishes before him, and found that a fairy breakfast was
very nice indeed.

In the meantime there was a noise outside, and in stumped an elderly
woman. She had very thick boots on, a short gown of red print, an
orange cotton handkerchief over her shoulders, and a black silk
bonnet. She was exactly the same height as the Queen,-- for of course
nobody in Fairyland is allowed to be any bigger than the Queen; so, if
they are not children when they arrive, they are obliged to shrink
said the Queen
answered the apple-woman, sitting
down in the empty chair
Two attendants immediately brought a cup of tea, and set it down
before the apple-woman, with a plate of bread and butter; and she
proceeded to pour it into the saucer, and blow it, because it was hot.
In so doing her wandering eyes caught sight of Jack and little Mopsa,
and she set down the saucer, and looked at them with attention.

Now Mopsa, I am sorry to say, was behaving so badly that Jack was
quite ashamed of her. First, she got out of her dish, took something
nice out of the Queen's plate with her fingers, and ate it; and then,
as she was going back, she tumbled over a melon, and upset a glass of
red wine, which she wiped up with her white frock; after which she got
into her dish again, and there she sat smiling, and daubing her pretty
face with a piece of buttered muffin
said Jack
said the apple-woman
And
then she burst into tears, and exclaimed, sobbing
Upon this, to the astonishment of Jack, every one of the guests began
to cry and sob too
they said to one another
They were evidently quite proud of it; and when Jack looked at the
Queen for an explanation, she only gave him a still little smile.

But Mopsa crept along the table to the apple-woman, let her take her
and hug her, and seemed to like her very much; for as she sat on her
knee, she patted her brown face with a little dimpled hand
said the apple-woman,
drying her eyes, and looking at Jack
said Jack
Upon this the apple-woman laughed for joy, and again every one else
did the same. The fairies can only laugh and cry when they see mortals
do so
_Stephano._ -- This will prove a brave kingdom to me,
              Where I shall have my music for nothing.

  _The Tempest._


When breakfast was over, the guests got up, one after the other,
without taking the least notice of the Queen; and the tent began to
get so thin and transparent that you could see the trees and the sky
through it. At last, it looked only like a colored mist, with blue,
and green, and yellow stripes, and then it was gone; and the table and
all the things on it began to go in the same way. Only Jack, and the
apple-woman, and Mopsa were left, sitting on their chairs, with the
Queen between them.

Presently, the Queen's lips began to move, and her eyes looked
straight before her, as she sat upright in her chair. Whereupon the
apple-woman snatched up Mopsa, and, seizing Jack's hand, hurried him
off, exclaiming
Jack did not want to go to sleep; he wished to go down to the river
again, and see what had become of his boat, for he had left his cap
and several other things in it.

So he parted from the apple-woman,-- who took Mopsa with her, and said
he would find her again when he wanted her at her apple-stall,-- and
went down to the boat, where he saw that his faithful hound was there
before him
said the hound
said Jack
So the hound with his teeth, and Jack with his hands, pulled and
pulled at the silk till it was large enough to make a splendid canopy,
like a tent; and it reached down to the water's edge, and roofed in
all the after part of the boat.

So now he had a delightful little home of his own; and there was no
fear of its being blown away, for no wind ever blows in Fairyland. All
the trees are quite still, no leaf rustles, and the flowers lie on the
ground exactly where they fall.

After this Jack told the hound to watch his boat, and went himself in
search of the apple-woman. Not one fairy was to be seen, any more than
if he had been in his own country, and he wandered down the green
margin of the river till he saw the apple-woman sitting at a small
stall with apples on it, and cherries tied to sticks, and some
dry-looking nuts. She had Mopsa on her knee, and had washed her face,
and put a beautiful clean white frock on her
asked Jack
she
answered
said Jack
said the apple-woman, laughing
said Jack
answered the apple-woman
said Jack
Mopsa came dancing towards Jack, and he tried to measure her, first
with a yard measure that the apple-woman took out of her pocket, and
then with a stick, and then with a bit of string; but Mopsa would not
stand steady, and at last it ended in their having a good game of
romps together, and a race; but when he carried her back, sitting on
his shoulder, he was sorry to see that the apple-woman was crying
again, and he asked her kindly what she did it for
she answered
said Jack
asked Jack
said the apple-woman
said Jack
said the apple-woman
Jack looked, and saw the Queen coming slowly towards them, with her
hands held out before her, as if it was dark. She felt her way, yet
her eyes were wide open, and she was telling her stories all the
time
whispered the apple-woman; and
then, in order that Jack might not hear what the Queen was talking
about, she began to sing.

She had no sooner begun than up from the river came swarms of
one-foot-one fairies to listen, and hundreds of them dropped down from
the trees. The Queen, too, seemed to attend as they did, though she
kept murmuring her story all the time; and nothing that any of them
did appeared to surprise the apple-woman,-- she sang as if nobody was
taking any notice at all:--

  When I sit on market-days amid the comers and the goers,
    Oh! full oft I have a vision of the days without alloy,
  And a ship comes up the river with a jolly gang of towers,
    And a
There is busy talk around me, all about mine ears it hummeth,
    But the wooden wharves I look on, and a dancing, heaving buoy,
  For 'tis tidetime in the river, and she cometh -- oh, she cometh!
    With a
Then I hear the water washing, never golden waves were brighter,
    And I hear the capstan creaking --'tis a sound that cannot cloy.
  Bring her to, to ship her lading, brig or schooner, sloop or
        lighter,
    With a
So I sailed adown the river in those days without alloy.
  We are launched! But when, I wonder, shall a sweeter sound float
        o'er us
    Than yon
As the apple-woman left off singing, the Queen moved away, still
murmuring the words of her story, and Jack said
replied the woman
observed Jack
said the apple-woman
replied Jack
replied the apple-woman
said Jack
said the
apple-woman
said the apple-woman, sharply
Mopsa had been listening to this, and now she said
Mopsa showed her little fat arm as she spoke, and there was a red
place on it
said the apple-woman
Just then the sun went down, and Mopsa got up on the apple-woman's
lap, and went to sleep; and Jack, being tired, went to his boat and
lay down under the purple canopy, his old hound lying at his feet to
keep guard over him.

The next morning, when he woke, a pretty voice called to him
and he opened his eyes and saw Mopsa. The apple-woman had
dressed her in a clean frock and blue shoes, and her hair was so long!
She was standing on the landing-place, close to him
she said
Jack looked. Yes, Mopsa had grown indeed; she had only just reached to
his knee the day before, and now her little bright head, when he
measured her, came as high as the second button of his waistcoat
said Jack
A ---- apple-pie.
  B ---- bit it
Jack said
Mopsa replied that she thought that did not signify, and then she and
Jack began to play at jumping from the boat on to the bank, and back
again; and afterwards, as not a single fairy could be seen, they had
breakfast with the apple-woman
asked Jack.

The apple-woman answered
said Jack
said Mopsa,-- little Mopsa looking as wise as possible
Jack laughed
continued
Mopsa
said Jack
said Mopsa
asked Jack
said Mopsa.

The apple-woman laughed, and said
said Mopsa
said Jack
said Mopsa
answered Jack
said Mopsa
Jack was very much surprised when he heard Mopsa say these strange
things; and as he looked at her, he felt that a sleep was coming over
him, and he could not hold up his head. He felt how delightful it was
to go to sleep; and though the apple-woman sprang to him, when she
observed that he was shutting his eyes, and though he heard her
begging and entreating him to keep awake, he did not want to do so;
but he let his head sink down on the mossy grass, which was as soft as
a pillow, and there, under the shade of a Guelder rose-tree, that kept
dropping its white flowerets all over him, he had this dream:

He thought that Mopsa came running up to him, as he stood by the
river, and that he said to her
said Mopsa
So they got into the boat, and it floated into the middle of the
river, and then made for the opposite bank, where the water was warm
and very muddy, and the river became so very wide that it seemed to be
afternoon when they got near enough to see it clearly; and what they
saw was a boggy country, green, and full of little rills; but the
water,-- which, as I told you, was thick and muddy,-- the water was full
of small holes! You never saw water with eyelet-holes in it; but Jack
did. On all sides of the boat he saw holes moving about in pairs, and
some were so close that he looked and saw their lining: they were
lined with pink, and they snorted! Jack was afraid, but he considered
that this was such a long time ago that the holes, whatever they were,
could not hurt him; but it made him start, notwithstanding, when a
huge flat-head reared itself up close to the boat, and he found that
the holes were the nostrils of creatures who kept all the rest of
themselves under water.

In a minute or two, hundreds of ugly flat-heads popped up, and the
boat danced among them as they floundered about in the water
said Jack
Mopsa said she would rather not, because she did not like the hairy
elephants
said Jack, in his
dream; but he had hardly spoken when out of a wood close at hand some
huge creatures, far larger than our elephants, came jogging down to
the water. There were forty or fifty of them, and they were covered
with what looked like tow. In fact, so coarse was their shaggy hair
that they looked as if they were dressed in door-mats; and when they
stood still and shook themselves, such clouds of dust flew out that,
as it swept over the river, it almost stifled Jack and Mopsa
exclaimed Jack, sneezing
answered Mopsa, at the other end of the boat (but he could
hardly see her for the dust
Jack had just decided to dream of something else, when, with a noise
greater than fifty trumpets, the elephants, having shaken out all the
dust, came thundering down to the water to bathe in the liquid mud.
They shook the whole country as they plunged; but that was not all.
The awful river-horses rose up, and, with shrill screams, fell upon
them, and gave them battle; while up from every rill peeped above the
rushes frogs as large as oxen, and with blue and green eyes that
gleamed like the eyes of cats.

The frogs croaking, and the shrill trumpeting of the elephants,
together with the cries of the river-horses, as all these creatures
fought with horn and tusk, and fell on one another, lashing the water
into whirlpools, among which the boat danced up and down like a
cork,-- the blinding spray, and the flapping about of great bats over
the boat and in it,-- so confused Jack, that Mopsa had spoken to him
several times before he answered
she said, at last
said Jack
Thereupon Mopsa whistled softly, and in a minute or two he saw, almost
spanning the river, a hundred yards off, a thing like a rainbow, or a
slender bridge, or still more, like one ring or coil of an enormous
serpent; and presently the creature's head shot up like a fountain,
close to the boat, almost as high as a ship's mast. It was the Craken;
and when Mopsa saw it, she began to cry, and said
Some of the bats that hung to the edges of the boat had wings as large
as sails; and the first thing the Craken did was to stoop its lithe
neck, pick two or three of them off, and eat them
the Craken said
Jack knew it was of no use saying anything to this formidable
creature, before whom the river-horses and the elephants were rushing
to the shore; but when he looked and saw down the river rainbow behind
rainbow,-- I mean coil behind coil,-- glittering in the sun, like so
many glorious arches that did not reach to the banks, he felt
extremely glad that this was a dream, and besides that, he thought to
himself
said Mopsa, answering his
thought
They went under one,-- silver, green, and blue, and gold. The water
dripped from it upon them, and the boat trembled, either because of
its great age, or because it felt the rest of the coil underneath.

A good way off was another coil, and they went so safely under that,
that Jack felt himself getting used to Crakens, and not afraid. Then
they went under thirteen more. These kept getting nearer and nearer
together, but, besides that, the fourteenth had not quite such a high
span as the former ones; but there were a great many to come, and yet
they got lower and lower.

Both Jack and Mopsa noticed this, but neither said a word. The
thirtieth coil brushed Jack's cap off, then they had to stoop to pass
under the two next, and then they had to lie down in the bottom of the
boat, and they got through with the greatest difficulty; but still
before them was another! The boat was driving straight towards it, and
it lay so close to the water that the arch it made was only a foot
high. When Jack saw it, he called out
Mopsa seemed to answer in quite a pleasant voice, as if she was not
afraid
And then she went on
Then all on a sudden Jack opened his eyes, and found that he was lying
quietly on the grass, that little Mopsa really had asked him why he
did not wake. He saw the Queen too, standing by, looking at him, and
saying to herself
said the apple-woman,
in a disrespectful tone, and she immediately began to sing, clattering
some tea-things all the time, for a kettle was boiling on some sticks,
and she was going to make tea out of doors:--

  The marten flew to the finch's nest,
    Feathers, and moss, and a wisp of hay
She beateth her wings, and away, away
The finch flew back to her cold, cold nest,
    Feathers and moss, and a wisp of hay,
  Mine is the trouble that rent her breast,
    And home is silent, and love is clay.

Jack felt very tired indeed,-- as much tired as if he had really been
out all day on the river, and gliding under the coils of the Craken.
He however rose up, when the apple-woman called him, and drank his
tea, and had some fairy bread with it, which refreshed him very much.

After tea he measured Mopsa again, and found that she had grown up to
a higher button. She looked much wiser too, and when he said she must
be taught to read she made no objection, so he arranged daisies and
buttercups into the forms of the letters, and she learnt nearly all of
them that one evening, while crowds of the one-foot-one fairies looked
on, hanging from the boughs and sitting in the grass, and shouting
out the names of the letters as Mopsa said them. They were very
polite to Jack, for they gathered all these flowers for him, and
emptied them from their little caps at his feet as fast as he wanted
them
Sweet is childhood -- childhood's over,
          Kiss and part.
  Sweet is youth; but youth's a rover --
          So's my heart.
  Sweet is rest; but by all showing
          Toil is nigh.
  We must go. Alas! the going,
          Say
Jack crept under his canopy, went to sleep early that night, and did
not wake till the sun had risen, when the apple-woman called him, and
said breakfast was nearly ready.

The same thing never happens twice in Fairyland, so this time the
breakfast was not spread in a tent, but on the river. The Queen had
cut off a tiny piece of her robe, the one-foot-one fairies had
stretched it till it was very large, and then they had spread it on
the water, where it floated and lay like a great carpet of purple and
gold. One corner of it was moored to the side of Jack's boat; but he
had not observed this, because of his canopy. However, that was now
looped up by the apple-woman, and Jack and Mopsa saw what was going
on.

Hundreds of swans had been towing the carpet along, and were still
holding it with their beaks, while a crowd of doves walked about on
it, smoothing out the creases and patting it with their pretty pink
feet till it was quite firm and straight. The swans then swam away,
and they flew away.

Presently troops of fairies came down to the landing-place, jumped
into Jack's boat without asking leave, and so got on to the carpet,
while at the same time a great tree which grew on the bank began to
push out fresh leaves, as large as fans, and shoot out long branches,
which again shot out others, till very soon there was shade all over
the carpet,-- a thick shadow as good as a tent, which was very
pleasant, for the sun was already hot.

When the Queen came down, the tree suddenly blossomed out with
thousands of red and white flowers
said the apple-woman
She whispered this as the
Queen stepped into the boat
said the Queen
This was
to the apple-woman; and then she stood still for a moment and looked
earnestly at little Mopsa, and sighed
she said to her
Then Mopsa
lifted up her pretty face and blushed very rosy red, and said, in a
shy voice
exclaimed the Queen
and she lifted up her
beautiful eyes, and murmured out
said Jack
said Mopsa, and she laughed and blushed again
As she said this the Queen stepped on to the carpet, and all the
flowers began to drop down. They were something like camellias, and
there were thousands of them.

The fairies collected them in little heaps. They had no tables and
chairs, nor any plates and dishes for this breakfast; but the Queen
sat down on the carpet close to Jack's boat, and leaned her cheek on
her hand, and seemed to be lost in thought. The fairies put some
flowers into her lap, then each took some, and they all sat down and
looked at the Queen, but she did not stir.

At last Jack said
said the apple-woman
Quantities of blossoms had dropped into the boat. Several fairies
tumbled into it almost head over heels, they were in such a hurry, and
they heaped them into Mopsa's lap, but took no notice of Jack, nor of
the apple-woman either.

At last, when every one had waited some time, the Queen pulled a petal
off one flower, and began to eat, so every one else began; and what
the apple-woman had said was quite true. Jack knew that he never had
tasted anything half so nice, and he was quite sorry when he could not
eat any more. So, when every one had finished, the Queen leaned her
arm on the edge of the boat, and, turning her lovely face towards
Mopsa, said
said Mopsa
And she took hold of the two sides of his velvet
jacket, and hid her face between them
continued the Queen, in a
soft, sorrowful voice
asked Mopsa; but she still hid her face.

So the Queen moved over, and put her lips close to Mopsa's ear, and
repeated it
said the
apple-woman
answered the Queen
said Mopsa
But the apple-woman broke out in a very cross voice
Then she began to sing, that she and
Jack might not hear Mopsa's story:--

  On the rocks by Aberdeen,
  Where the whislin' wave had been,
  As I wandered and at e'en
          Was eerie;
  There I saw thee sailing west,
  And I ran with joy opprest --
  Ay, and took out all my best,
          My dearie.

  Then I busked mysel' wi' speed,
  And the neighbors cried
Now my heart, my heart is sair.
  What's the good, though I be fair,
  For thou'lt never see me mair,
          Man Johnnie!

While the apple-woman sang Mopsa finished her story; and the Queen
untied the fastening which held her carpet to the boat, and went
floating upon it down the river
she said, kissing her hand to them
So Jack and Mopsa played about all the morning, sometimes in the boat
and sometimes on the shore, while the apple-woman sat on the grass,
with her arms folded, and seemed to be lost in thought. At last she
said to Jack
answered Jack
said Mopsa
replied the apple-woman; but Mopsa shook her head
she answered
said Jack
answered Mopsa
observed Jack
said the apple-woman
said Jack
answered the apple-woman
repeated Jack
said Jack
answered the apple-woman
said Jack
answered the apple-woman. "All fairies are part of
their time in the shape of human creatures, and the rest of it in the
shape of some animal. These can turn themselves, when they please,
into Guinea-fowl. In the heat of the day they generally prefer to be
in that form, and they sit among the leaves of the trees.

&lsqb;THE APPLE WOMAN
PAGE 156
So she began to sing, and the air was darkened by great flocks of
these Guinea-fowl. They alighted just as she had said, and kept time
with their heads and their feet, nodding like a crowd of mandarins;
and yet it was nothing but a stupid old song that you would have
thought could have no particular meaning for them.


LIKE A LAVEROCK IN THE LIFT.

  I.

  It's we two, it's we two, it's we two for aye,
  All the world and we two, and Heaven be our stay.
  Like a laverock in the lift, sing, O bonny bride!
  All the world was Adam once, with Eve by his side.

  II.

  What's the world, my lass, my love!-- what can it do?
  I am thine, and thou art mine; life is sweet and new.
  If the world have missed the mark, let it stand by,
  For we two have gotten leave, and once more we'll try.

  III.

  Like a laverock in the lift, sing, O bonny bride!
  It's we two, it's we two, happy side by side.
  Take a kiss from me thy man; now the song begins
IV.

  When the darker days come, and no sun will shine,
  Thou shalt dry my tears, lass, and I'll dry thine.
  It's we two, it's we two, while the world's away,
  Sitting by the golden sheaves on our wedding-day
A land that living warmth disowns,
    It meets my wondering ken;
  A land where all the men are stones,
    Or all the stones are men.


Before the apple-woman had finished, Jack and Mopsa saw the Queen
coming in great state, followed by thousands of the one-foot-one
fairies, and leading by a ribbon round its neck a beautiful brown doe.
A great many pretty fawns were walking among the fairies
said the apple-woman; but as the Guinea-fowl
rose like a cloud at the approach of the Queen, and the fairies and
fawns pressed forward, there was a good deal of noise and confusion,
during which Mopsa stepped up close to Jack, and whispered in his ear
Then the brown doe laid down at Mopsa's feet, and the Queen began
said Mopsa
continued the Queen
said Mopsa, pouting
answered the real Queen
said
Jack
said the Queen
said Mopsa
answered the Queen
said Jack
said the apple-woman
said the Queen
So the apple-woman said
said Mopsa
asked Jack
said the apple-woman
said Mopsa
All this time the Queen with the brown doe had been gently pressing
with the crowd nearer and nearer to the brink of the river, so that
now Jack and Mopsa, who stood facing them, were quite close to the
boat; and while they argued and tried to make Mopsa come away, Jack
suddenly whispered to her to spring into the boat, which she did, and
he after her, and at the same time he cried out
No sooner did he begin to speak than the boat swung itself away from
the edge, and almost in a moment it was in the very middle of the
river, and beginning to float gently down with the stream.

&lsqb;THEY RUN AWAY FROM OLD MOTHER FATE
PAGE 162.&rsqb;

Now, as I have told you before, that river runs up the country instead
of down to the sea, so Jack and Mopsa floated still farther up into
Fairyland; and they saw the Queen, and the apple-woman, and all the
crowd of fawns and fairies walking along the bank of the river,
keeping exactly to the same pace that the boat went; and this went on
for hours and hours, so that there seemed to be no chance that Jack
and Mopsa could land; and they heard no voices at all, nor any sound
but the baying of the old hound, who could not swim out to them,
because Jack had forbidden the boat to take anything of fairy birth on
board of her.

Luckily the bottom of the boat was full of those delicious flowers
that had dropped into it at breakfast-time, so there was plenty of
nice food for Jack and Mopsa; and Jack noticed, when he looked at her
towards evening, that she was now nearly as tall as himself, and that
her lovely brown hair floated down to her ankles
she said, before it grew dusk
Now Mopsa had often played with this purse. It was lined with a nice
piece of pale green silk, and when Jack gave it to her she pulled the
silk out, and shook it, and patted it, and stretched it, just as the
Queen had done, and it came into a most lovely cloak, which she tied
round her neck. Then she twisted up her long hair into a coil, and
fastened it round her head, and called to the fire-flies which were
beginning to glitter on the trees to come, and they came and alighted
in a row upon the coil, and turned into diamonds directly. So now
Mopsa had got a crown and a robe, and she was so beautiful that Jack
thought he should never be tired of looking at her; but it was nearly
dark now, and he was so sleepy and tired that he could not keep his
eyes open, though he tried very hard, and he began to blink, and then
he began to nod, and at last he fell fast asleep, and did not awake
till the morning.

Then he sat up in the boat, and looked about him. A wonderful country,
indeed!-- no trees, no grass, no houses, nothing but red stones and red
sand,-- and Mopsa was gone. Jack jumped on shore, for the boat had
stopped, and was close to the brink of the river. He looked about for
some time, and at last, in the shadow of a pale brown rock, he found
her; and oh! delightful surprise, the apple-woman was there too. She
was saying
That
was not surprising, for she had been out all night. She had walked
beside the river with the Queen and her tribe till they came to a
little tinkling stream, which divides their country from the sandy
land, and there they were obliged to stop; they could not cross it.
But the apple-woman sprang over, and, though the Queen told her she
must come back again in twenty-four hours, she did not appear to be
displeased. Now the Guinea-hens, when they had come to listen, the day
before, to the apple-woman's song, had brought each of them a grain of
maize in her beak, and had thrown it into her apron; so when she got
up she carried it with her gathered up there, and now she had been
baking some delicious little cakes on a fire of dry sticks that the
river had drifted down, and Mopsa had taken a honeycomb from the rock,
so that they all had a very nice breakfast. And the apple-woman gave
them a great deal of good advice, and told them if they wished to
remain in Fairyland, and not be caught by the brown doe and her
followers, they must cross over the purple mountains
she said
she said to Mopsa
said Jack
said Mopsa
asked Jack
said Mopsa
said Jack, looking about him.

Mopsa pointed to a group of stones, and then to another group, and
as Jack looked he saw that in shape they were something like
people,-- stone people. One stone was a little like an old man with
a mantle over him, and he was sitting on the ground with his knees up
nearly to his chin. Another was like a woman with a hood on, and
she seemed to be leaning her chin on her hand. Close to these stood
something very much like a cradle in shape; and beyond were stones
that resembled a flock of sheep lying down on the bare sand, with
something that reminded Jack of the figure of a man lying asleep
near them, with his face to the ground.

That was a very curious country; all the stones reminded you of people
or of animals, and the shadows that they cast were much more like than
the stones themselves. There were blocks with things that you might
have mistaken for stone ropes twisted round them; but, looking at the
shadows, you could see distinctly that they were trees, and that what
coiled round were snakes. Then there was a rocky prominence, at one
side of which was something like a sitting figure, but its shadow,
lying on the ground, was that of a girl with a distaff. Jack was very
much surprised at all this; Mopsa was not. She did not see, she said,
that one thing was more wonderful than another. All the fairy lands
were wonderful, but the men-and-women world was far more so. She and
Jack went about among the stones all day, and as the sun got low both
the shadows and the blocks themselves became more and more like
people, and if you went close you could now see features, very sweet,
quiet features, but the eyes were all shut.

By this time the apple-woman began to feel very sad. She knew she
should soon have to leave Jack and Mopsa, and she said to Mopsa, as
they finished their evening meal
Jack said nothing, for he thought he would see what Mopsa was going to
do; so when she got up and went towards the shape that was like a
cradle he followed, and the apple-woman too. Mopsa went to the figure
that sat by the cradle. It was a stone yet, but when Mopsa laid her
little warm hand on its bosom it smiled
said Mopsa
A curious little sound was now heard, but the figure did not move, and
the apple-woman lifted Mopsa on to the lap of the statue; then she put
her arms round its neck, and spoke to it again very distinctly
Jack now observed that the sound he had heard was something like the
crying of a baby. He also heard the figure answering Mopsa. It said
said Mopsa
said the figure; and that was quite true, and yet she
was not a stone now which reminded one of a woman, but a woman that
reminded one of a stone.

All the west was very red with the sunset, and the river was red too,
and Jack distinctly saw some of the coils of rope glide down from the
trees and slip into the water; next he saw the stones that had looked
like sheep raise up their heads in the twilight, and then lift
themselves and shake their woolly sides. At that instant the large
white moon heaved up her pale face between two dark blue hills, and
upon this the statue put out its feet and gently rocked the cradle.

Then it spoke again to Mopsa
said Mopsa
said the woman; and she had
hardly anything of the stone about her now
said
Jack
The statue at this moment rubbed her hands together, as if they still
felt cold and stiff
she observed
persisted Jack
said the woman, rising and shaking the figure next to her by
the sleeve
What had looked like an old man was a real old
man now, and he got up and began to gather sticks to make a fire, and
to pick up the little brown stones which had been scattered about all
day, but which now were berries of coffee; the larger ones, which you
might find here and there, were rasped rolls. Then the woman answered
Jack
observed Jack
said the woman, in a tone of indifference
By this time the shepherd was gently driving his flock down to the
water, and round fifty little fires groups of people were sitting
roasting coffee, while cows were lowing to be milked, and girls with
distaffs were coming to them slowly, for no one was in a hurry there.
They say in that country that they wish to enjoy their day quietly,
because it is so short
asked
Jack
said the woman
said Jack
replied the woman; and Jack
thought she laughed and was glad of that
asked Jack
answered the woman
_Rosalind._ -- Well, this is the forest of Arden.

  _Touchstone._ -- Ay, now am I in Arden: the more fool I;
  when I was at home I was in a better place; but travellers
  must be content.

  _As you Like it
said the stone-woman; and when Jack heard that he
ran down to the river, and looked right and looked left. At last he
saw his boat,-- a mere speck in the distance, it had floated so far.

He called it, but it was far beyond the reach of his voice; and Mopsa,
who had followed him, said
So they walked back towards the stone-people hand in hand, and the
apple-woman presently joined them. She was crying gently, for she knew
that she must soon pass over the little stream, and part with these
whom she called her dear children. Jack had often spoken to her that
day about going home to her own country, but she said it was too late
to think of that now, and she must end her days in the land of Faery.

The kind stone-people asked them to come and sit by their little fire;
and in the dusk the woman whose baby had slept in a stone cradle took
it up and began to sing to it. She seemed astonished when she heard
that the apple-woman had power to go home if she could make up her
mind to do it; and as she sang she looked at her with wonder and
pity.

  Little babe, while burns the west,
  Warm thee, warm thee in my breast;
  While the moon doth shine her best,
    And the dews distil not.

  All the land so sad, so fair --
  Sweet its toils are, blest its care.
  Child, we may not enter there!
    Some there are that will not.

  Fain would I thy margins know,
  Land of work, and land of snow;
  Land of life, whose rivers flow
    On, and on, and stay not.

  Fain would I thy small limbs fold,
  While the weary hours are told,
  Little babe in cradle cold.
    Some there are that may not
said Jack
said the woman
answered Jack
answered the woman
observed the apple-woman; and then she said
that she must go, for she had a long way to walk before she should
reach the little brook that led to the country of her own queen; so
she kissed the two children, Jack and Mopsa, and they begged her again
to think better of it, and return to her own land. But she said No;
she had no heart for work now, and could not bear either cold or
poverty.

Then the woman who was hugging her little baby, and keeping it cosy
and warm, began to tell Jack and Mopsa that it was time they should
begin to run away to the country over the purple mountains, or else
the Queen would overtake them and be very angry with them; so, with
many promises that they would mind her directions, they set off hand
in hand to run; but before they left her they could see plainly that
she was beginning to turn again into stone. However, she had given
them a slice of melon with the seeds in it. It had been growing on the
edge of the river, and was stone in the day-time, like everything
else
she said
So, as I said before, Jack and Mopsa set off hand in hand to run; and
as they ran all the things and people gradually and softly settled
themselves to turn into stone again. Their cloaks and gowns left off
fluttering, and hung stiffly; and then they left off their
occupations, and sat down, or laid down themselves; and the sheep and
cattle turned stiff and stone-like too, so that in a very little while
all that country was nothing but red stones and red sand, just as it
had been in the morning.

Presently the full moon, which had been hiding behind a cloud, came
out, and they saw their shadows, which fell straight before them; so
they ran on hand in hand very merrily till the half-moon came up, and
the shadows she made them cast fell sideways. This was rather awkward,
because as long as only the full moon gave them shadows, they had but
to follow them, in order to go straight towards the purple mountains.
Now they were not always sure which were her shadows: and presently a
crescent moon came, and still further confused them; also the sand
began to have tufts of grass in it; and then, when they had gone a
little farther, there were beautiful patches of anemones, and
hyacinths, and jonquils, and crown imperials, and they stopped to
gather them; and they got among some trees, and then, as they had
nothing to guide them but the shadows, and these went all sorts of
ways, they lost a great deal of time, and the trees became of taller
growth; but they still ran on and on till they got into a thick forest
where it was quite dark, and here Mopsa began to cry, for she was
tired
she said to Jack
So Jack gave her some of the seeds of the melon, though it was so dark
that he could scarcely find the way to her mouth, and then he took
some himself, and they both felt that they were rested, and Jack
comforted Mopsa
he said
When they reached the end of that great forest, and found themselves
out in all sorts of moonlight, the first thing they did was to
laugh,-- the shadows looked so odd, sticking out in every direction;
and the next thing they did was to stand back to back, and put their
heels together, and touch their heads together, to see by the shadow
which was the taller; and Jack was still the least bit in the world
taller than Mopsa; so they knew she was not a queen yet, and they ate
some more melon-seeds, and began to climb up the mountain.

They climbed till the trees of the forest looked no bigger than
gooseberry bushes, and then they climbed till the whole forest looked
only like a patch of moss; and then, when they got a little higher,
they saw the wonderful river, a long way off, and the snow glittering
on the peaks overhead; and while they were looking and wondering how
they should find a pass, the moons all went down, one after the
other, and, if Mopsa had not found some glowworms, they would have
been quite in the dark again. However, she took a dozen of them, and
put them round Jack's ankles, so that when he walked he could see
where he was going; and he found a little sheep-path, and she followed
him.

Now they had noticed during the night how many shooting-stars kept
darting about from time to time, and at last one shot close by them,
and fell in the soft moss on before. There it lay shining; and Jack,
though he began to feel very tired again, made haste to it, for he
wanted to see what it was like.

It was not what you would have supposed. It was soft and round, and
about the color of a ripe apricot; it was covered with fur, and in
fact it was evidently alive, and had curled itself up into a round
ball
said Jack, as he held it in his hand, and
showed it to Mopsa
said Mopsa to the thing
The little creature made a sound that seemed like
said Mopsa
So Wisp unfolded himself, and showed two little black eyes, and spread
out two long filmy wings. He was like a most beautiful bat, and the
light he shed out illuminated their faces
said Mopsa
Upon this Wisp spread out his wings, and shot off again; and Jack's
feet were so tired that he sat down, and pulled off one of his shoes,
for he thought there was a stone in it. So he set the little red jar
beside him, and quite forgot what the stone-woman had said, but went
on shaking his shoe, and buckling it, and admiring the glowworms round
his ankle, till Mopsa said
Then he lifted up the jar, and thought
it felt very heavy; and when he put in his hand, jar, and melon, and
seeds were all turned to stone together.

They were both very sorry, and they sat still for a minute or two, for
they were much too tired to stir; and then shooting-stars began to
appear in all directions. The fairy bat had told his friends and
relations, and they were coming. One fell at Mopsa's feet, another in
her lap; more, more, all about, behind, before, and over them. And
they spread out long filmy wings, some of them a yard long, till Jack
and Mopsa seemed to be enclosed in a perfect network of the rays of
shooting-stars, and they were both a good deal frightened. Fifty or
sixty shooting-stars, with black eyes that could stare, were enough,
they thought, to frighten anybody
said Mopsa
She had no sooner spoken than the largest of the bats
bit off one of his own long wings, and laid it at Mopsa's feet. It did
not seem to matter much to him that he had parted with it, for he shot
out another wing directly, just as a comet shoots out a ray of light
sometimes, when it approaches the sun.

Mopsa thanked the shooting fairy, and, taking the wing, began to
stretch it, till it was large enough for her and Jack to sit upon.
Then all the shooting fairies came round it, took its edges in their
mouths, and began to fly away with it over the mountains. They went
slowly, for Jack and Mopsa were heavy, and they flew very low, resting
now and then; but in the course of time they carried the wing over the
pass, and halfway down the other side. Then the sun came up; and the
moment he appeared all their lovely apricot-colored light was gone,
and they only looked like common bats, such as you can see every
evening.

They set down Jack and Mopsa, folded up their long wings, and hung
down their heads.

Mopsa thanked them, and said they had been useful; but still they
looked ashamed, and crept into little corners and crevices of the
rock, to hide
'Tis merry, 'tis merry in Fairyland,
    Where Fairy birds are singing;
  When the court doth sit by the monarch's side,
    With bit and bridle ringing.

  WALTER SCOTT.


There were many fruit-trees on that slope of the mountain, and Jack
and Mopsa, as they came down, gathered some fruit for breakfast, and
did not feel very tired, for the long ride on the wing had rested
them.

They could not see the plain, for a slight blue mist hung over it; but
the sun was hot already, and as they came down they saw a beautiful
bed of high reeds, and thought they would sit awhile and rest in it. A
rill of clear water ran beside the bed, so when they had reached it
they sat down, and began to consider what they should do next
said Mopsa
answered Jack
said Mopsa
said Jack
answered Mopsa
So they arose; but they turned the wrong way, and by mistake walked
farther and farther in among the reeds, whose feathery heads puffed
into Mopsa's face, and Jack's coat was all covered with the fluffy
seed
said Jack
But they walked on and on, till Mopsa grew quite faint, and her sweet
face became very pale, for she knew that the beds of reeds were
spreading faster than they walked, and then they shot up so high that
it was impossible to see over their heads; so at last Jack and Mopsa
were so tired that they sat down, and Mopsa began to cry.

However, Jack was the braver of the two this time, and he comforted
Mopsa, and told her that she was nearly a queen, and would never reach
her castle by sitting still. So she got up and took his hand, and he
went on before, parting the reeds and pulling her after him, till all
on a sudden they heard the sweetest sound in the world; it was like a
bell, and it sounded again and again.

It was the castle clock, and it was striking twelve at noon.

As it finished striking they came out at the farther edge of the great
bed of reeds, and there was the castle straight before them,-- a
beautiful castle, standing on the slope of a hill. The grass all about
it was covered with beautiful flowers; two of the taller turrets were
overgrown with ivy, and a flag was flying on a staff; but everything
was so silent and lonely that it made one sad to look on. As Jack and
Mopsa drew near they trod as gently as they could, and did not say a
word.

All the windows were shut, but there was a great door in the centre of
the building, and they went towards it, hand in hand.

What a beautiful hall! The great door stood wide open, and they could
see what a delightful place this must be to live in: it was paved with
squares of blue and white marble, and here and there carpets were
spread, with chairs and tables upon them. They looked and saw a great
dome overhead, filled with windows of colored glass, and they cast
down blue and golden and rosy reflections
said Mopsa; and she came
close to the door, and they both looked in, till at last she let go of
Jack's hand, and stepped over the threshold.

The bell in the tower sounded again more sweetly than ever, and the
instant Mopsa was inside there came from behind the fluted columns,
which rose up on every side, the brown doe, followed by troops of deer
and fawns
cried Jack
But Mopsa was too
much astonished to stir, and something seemed to hold Jack from
following; but he looked and looked, till, as the brown doe advanced,
the door of the castle closed,-- Mopsa was shut in, and Jack was left
outside.

So Mopsa had come straight to the place she thought she had ran away
from
thought
Jack
And he began to look
about him, hoping to get in. It was of no use: all the windows in that
front of the castle were high, and when he tried to go round, he came
to a high wall with battlements. Against some parts of this wall the
ivy grew, and looked as if it might have grown there for ages; its
stems were thicker than his waist, and its branches were spread over
the surface like network; so by means of them he hoped to climb to the
top.

He immediately began to try. Oh, how high the wall was! First he came
to several sparrows' nests, and very much frightened the sparrows
were; then he reached starlings' nests, and very angry the starlings
were; but at last, just under the coping, he came to jackdaws' nests,
and these birds were very friendly, and pointed out to him the best
little holes for him to put his feet into. At last he reached the top,
and found to his delight that the wall was three feet thick, and he
could walk upon it quite comfortably, and look down into a lovely
garden, where all the trees were in blossom, and creepers tossed their
long tendrils from tree to tree, covered with puffs of yellow, or
bells of white, or bunches and knots of blue or rosy bloom.

He could look down into the beautiful empty rooms of the castle, and
he walked cautiously on the wall till he came to the west front, and
reached a little casement window that had latticed panes. Jack peeped
in; nobody was there. He took his knife, and cut away a little bit of
lead to let out the pane, and it fell with such a crash on the
pavement below that he wondered it did not bring the deer over to look
at what he was about. Nobody came.

He put in his hand and opened the latchet, and with very little
trouble got down into the room. Still nobody was to be seen. He
thought that the room, years ago, might have been a fairies'
school-room, for it was strewn with books, slates, and all sorts of
copybooks. A fine soft dust had settled down over everything,-- pens,
papers, and all. Jack opened a copybook: its pages were headed with
maxims, just as ours are, which proved that these fairies must have
been superior to such as he had hitherto come among. Jack read some of
them:--

  Turn your back on the light, and you'll follow a shadow.
  The deaf queen Fate has dumb courtiers.
  If the hound is your foe, don't sleep in his kennel.
  That that is, is.

And so on; but nobody came, and no sound was heard, so he opened the
door, and found himself in a long and most splendid gallery, all hung
with pictures, and spread with a most beautiful carpet, which was as
soft and white as a piece of wool, and wrought with a beautiful
device. This was the letter M, with a crown and sceptre, and
underneath a beautiful little boat, exactly like the one in which he
had come up the river. Jack felt sure that this carpet had been made
for Mopsa, and he went along the gallery upon it till he reached a
grand staircase of oak that was almost black with age, and he stole
gently down it, for he began to feel rather shy, more especially as he
could now see the great hall under the dome, and that it had a
beautiful lady in it, and many other people, but no deer at all.

These fairy people were something like the one-foot-one fairies, but
much larger and more like children; and they had very gentle, happy
faces, and seemed to be extremely glad and gay. But seated on a
couch, where lovely painted windows threw down all sorts of rainbow
colors on her, was a beautiful fairy lady, as large as a woman. She
had Mopsa in her arms, and was looking down upon her with eyes full of
love, while at her side stood a boy, who was exactly and precisely
like Jack himself. He had rather long light hair and gray eyes, and a
velvet jacket. That was all Jack could see at first, but as he drew
nearer the boy turned, and then Jack felt as if he was looking at
himself in the glass.

Mopsa had been very tired, and now she was fast asleep, with her head
on that lady's shoulder. The boy kept looking at her, and he seemed
very happy indeed; so did the lady, and she presently told him to
bring Jack something to eat.

It was rather a curious speech that she made to him; it was this
thought Jack to himself
So that other Jack went away, and presently came back with a golden
plate full of nice things to eat
he said, as he came up to Jack with the
plate
repeated the lady
exclaimed the boy, and laughed.

The lady, on hearing this, turned pale, for she perceived that she
herself had mistaken the one for the other
said the real Jack
exclaimed the boy
replied Jack, almost in a passion
said the other Jack
said the fairy woman
answered the boy, and again he offered the plate; but
Jack was swelling with indignation, and he gave the plate a push with
his elbow, which scattered the fruit and bread on the ground
he said; but when the other Jack went and picked it
up again, and said
he began to consider that it was no use being cross in
Fairyland; so he forgave his double, and had just finished his
breakfast when Mopsa woke
One, two, three, four; one, two, three, four;
    'Tis still one, two, three, four.
  Mellow and silvery are the tones,
    But I wish the bells were more.

  SOUTHEY.


Mopsa woke: she was rather too big to be nursed, for she was the size
of Jack, and looked like a sweet little girl of ten years, but she did
not always behave like one; sometimes she spoke as wisely as a
grown-up woman, and sometimes she changed again and seemed like a
child.

Mopsa lifted up her head and pushed back her long hair: her coronet
had fallen off while she was in the bed of reeds; and she said to the
beautiful dame
answered the lady
said
Mopsa
repeated the lady
said Mopsa
And then she paused, and
said
As she spoke, the sweet, clear bell of the castle sounded three times,
and then chimes began to play: they played such a joyous tune that it
made everybody sing. The dame sang, the crowd of fairies sang, the
boy who was Jack's double sang, and Mopsa sang,-- only Jack was
silent,-- and this was the song:--

  The prince shall to the chase again,
  The dame has got her face again,
  The king shall have his place again
    Aneath the fairy dome.

  And all the knights shall woo again,
  And all the doves shall coo again,
  And all the dreams come true again,
    And Jack shall go home
thought Jack to himself. And Mopsa, while
she sang those last words, burst into tears, which Jack did not like
to see; but all the fairies were so very glad, so joyous, and so
delighted with her for having come to be their queen, that after a
while she dried her eyes, and said to the wrong boy
said the real Jack
asked Mopsa
said Jack
answered Mopsa
said Jack
answered Mopsa, surprised
said Jack
answered Mopsa
Jack was so astonished at this that he stared
at the lady and the boy and the fairies with all his might
said Mopsa
said Jack
said Mopsa
answered Jack
observed Mopsa
answered Jack
answered Mopsa
said Jack.

Mopsa laughed
she
replied
persisted Jack
repeated Mopsa
asked Jack.

Mopsa, however, was like other fairies in this respect,-- that she knew
all about Old Mother Fate, but not about causes and reasons. She
believed, as we do in this world, that

  That that is, is;

but the fairies go further than this; they say:--

  That that is, is; and when it is, that is the reason that it is.

This sounds like nonsense to us, but it is all right to them.

So Mopsa, thinking she had explained everything, said again
Jack took it out; and she got down from the dame's knee and took it in
the palm of her hand, laying the other palm upon it
observed the dame
said Mopsa.

Presently she began to look as if something gave her pain
she said to the other Jack
he answered
Mopsa still held the little silver coin; but Jack saw that it hurt
her, for two bright tears fell from her eyes; and in another moment he
saw that it was actually melted, for it fell in glittering drops from
Mopsa's hand to the marble floor, and there it lay as soft as
quicksilver
said Mopsa to the other Jack; and he instantly did so,
and laid it in her hand again; and she began gently to roll it
backwards and forwards between her palms till she had rolled it into a
very slender rod, two feet long, and not nearly so thick as a pin; but
it did not bend, and it shone so brightly that you could hardly look
at it.

Then she held it out towards the real Jack, and said
began the other Jack; but the dame suddenly
stopped him
Jack hesitated; he thought if Mopsa was a queen the thing ought to be
a sceptre; but it certainly was not at all like a sceptre
said he
said Mopsa, speaking to the silver stick, which was
glittering now in a sunbeam almost as if it were a beam of light
itself. Then she spoke again to Jack
Again the boy-king began to speak, and the dame stopped him, and again
Jack considered. He had heard a great deal in his own country about
fairy wands, but he could not remember that the fairies had done
anything particular with them, so he gave what he thought was true,
but what seemed to him a very stupid answer
The moment he had said this, shouts of ecstasy filled the hall, and
all the fairies clapped their hands with such hurrahs of delight that
he blushed for joy.

The dame also looked truly glad, and as for the other Jack, he
actually turned head over heels, just as Jack had often done himself
on his father's lawn.

Jack had merely meant that Mopsa could point with the wand to anything
that she saw; but he was presently told that what he had meant was
nothing, and that his words were everything
said Mopsa
Again the hall was filled with those cries of joy, and the sweet,
child-like fairies congratulated each other with
Then Mopsa rose and walked towards the beautiful staircase, the dame
and all the fairies following. Jack was going too, but the other Jack
held him
inquired Jack
answered the other
Jack
answered Jack
The boy-king did not make a direct answer; he only said
asked Jack.

So he opened his eyes wide with surprise
he observed
said Jack
said the boy
Jack looked, and certainly Mopsa was coming, but very strangely, he
thought. Mopsa, like all other fairies, was afraid to whisper a spell
with her eyes open; so a handkerchief was tied across them, and as she
came on she felt her way, holding by the banisters with one hand, and
with the other, between her finger and thumb, holding out the silver
wand. She felt with her foot for the edge of the first stair; and Jack
heard her say
Mopsa was dressed superbly in a white satin gown, with a long, long
train of crimson velvet which was glittering with diamonds; it reached
almost from one end of the great gallery to the other, and had
hundreds of fairies to hold it and keep it in its place. But in her
hair were no jewels, only a little crown made of daisies, and on her
shoulders her robe was fastened with the little golden image of a
boat. These things were to show the land she had come from and the
vessel she had come in.

So she came slowly, slowly down stairs blindfold, and muttering to her
wand all the time:

  Though the sun shine brightly,
  Wand, wand, guide rightly.

So she felt her way down to the great hall. There the wand turned half
round in the hall toward the great door, and she and Jack and the
other Jack came out into the lawn in front with all the followers and
trainbearers; only the dame remained behind.

Jack noticed now for the first time that, with the one exception of
the boy-king, all these fairies were lady-fairies; he also observed
that Mopsa, after the manner of fairy queens, though she moved slowly
and blindfold, was beginning to tell a story. This time it did not
make him feel sleepy. It did not begin at the beginning: their stories
never do.

These are the first words he heard, for she spoke softly and very low,
while he walked at her right hand, and the other Jack on her left
Now while Mopsa told her story the wand continued to bend, and Mopsa,
following, was slowly approaching the foot of a great precipice, which
rose sheer up for more than a hundred feet. The crowd that followed
looked dismayed at this: they thought the wand must be wrong; or even
if it was right, they could not climb a precipice.

But still Mopsa walked on blindfold, and the wand pointed at the rock
till it touched it, and she said
They told her, and she called to some of her ladies to untie the
handkerchief. Then Mopsa looked at the rock, and so did the two Jacks.
There was nothing to be seen but a very tiny hole. The boy-king
thought it led to a bees' nest, and Jack thought it was a keyhole, for
he noticed in the rock a slight crack which took the shape of an
arched door.

Mopsa looked earnestly at the hole
she said
We are much bound to them that do succeed;
    But, in a more pathetic sense, are bound
    To such as fail. They all our loss expound;
  They comfort us for work that will not speed,
  And life -- itself a failure. Ay, his deed,
    Sweetest in story, who the dusk profound
    Of Hades flooded with entrancing sound,
  Music's own tears, was failure. Doth it read
  Therefore the worse? Ah, no! so much to dare,
    He fronts the regnant Darkness on its throne.--
  So much to do; impetuous even there,
    He pours out love's disconsolate sweet moan --
  He wins; but few for that his deed recall:
  Its power is in the look which costs him all.


At this moment Jack observed that a strange woman was standing among
them, and that the trainbearing fairies fell back, as if they were
afraid of her. As no one spoke, he did, and said
she answered, correcting him
said Jack
continued the fairy woman
Jack took one of the spades,-- it was small, and was made of silver;
but the other Jack said with scorn
said the black fairy, and walked away.

Then they all observed that a brown woman was standing there; and she
stepped up and whispered in the boy-king's ear. As he listened his
sullen face became good tempered, and at last he said, in a gentle
tone
asked Jack
said a white fairy, stepping up and setting her foot on the
grass just under the little hole
So Mopsa and the crowd stood back, and the two boys began to dig; and
greatly they enjoyed it, for people can dig so fast in Fairyland.

Very soon the hole was so deep that they had to jump into it, because
they could not reach the bottom with their spades
said Jack, when they had dug so much deeper that they could
only see out of the hole by standing on tiptoe
said the white fairy; so they dug till they came to a flat
stone, and then she said
So the two Jacks began to stamp, and in such a
little time that she had only half turned her head round, the flat
stone gave way, for there was a hollow underneath it, and down went
the boys, and utterly disappeared.

Then, while Mopsa and the crowd silently looked on, the white fairy
lightly pushed the clods of earth towards the hole with the side of
her foot, and in a very few minutes the hole was filled in, and that
so completely and so neatly, that when she had spread the turf on it,
and given it a pat with her foot, you could not have told where it had
been. Mopsa said not a word, for no fairy ever interferes with a
stronger fairy; but she looked on earnestly, and when the white
stranger smiled she was satisfied.

Then the white stranger walked away, and Mopsa and the fairies sat
down on a bank under some splendid cedar-trees. The beautiful castle
looked fairer than ever in the afternoon sunshine; a lovely waterfall
tumbled with a tinkling noise near at hand, and the bank was covered
with beautiful wild flowers.

They sat for a long while, and no one spoke: what they were thinking
of is not known, but sweet Mopsa often sighed.

At last a noise,-- a very, very slight noise, as of the footsteps of
people running,-- was heard inside the rock, and then a little
quivering was seen in the wand. It quivered more and more as the
sound increased. At last that which had looked like a door began to
shake as if some one was pushing it from within. Then a noise was
distinctly heard as of a key turning in the hole, and out burst the
two Jacks, shouting for joy, and a whole troop of knights and squires
and serving-men came rushing wildly forth behind them.

Oh, the joy of that meeting! who shall describe it? Fairies by dozens
came up to kiss the boy-king's hand, and Jack shook hands with every
one that could reach him. Then Mopsa proceeded to the castle between
the two Jacks, and the king's aunt came out to meet them, and welcomed
her husband with tears of joy; for these fairies could laugh and cry
when they pleased, and they naturally considered this a great proof of
superiority.

After this a splendid feast was served under the great dome. The other
fairy feasts that Jack had seen were nothing to it. The prince and his
dame sat at one board, but Mopsa sat at the head of the great table,
with the two Jacks, one on each side of her.

Mopsa was not happy, Jack was sure of that, for she often sighed; and
he thought this strange. But he did not ask her any questions, and he,
with the boy-king, related their adventures to her: how, when the
stone gave way, they tumbled in and rolled down a sloping bank till
they found themselves at the entrance of a beautiful cave, which was
all lighted up with torches, and glittering with stars and crystals of
all the colors in the world. There was a table spread with what looked
like a splendid luncheon in this great cave, and chairs were set
round, but Jack and the boy-king felt no inclination to eat anything,
though they were hungry, for a whole nation of ants were creeping up
the honey-pots. There were snails walking about over the table-cloth,
and toads peeping out of some of the dishes.

So they turned away, and, looking for some other door to lead them
farther in, they at last found a very small one,-- so small that only
one of them could pass through at a time.

They did not tell Mopsa all that had occurred on this occasion. It was
thus:

The boy-king said
said Jack
answered the other Jack
So they began to quarrel and argue about this, and it is impossible to
say how long they would have gone on if they had not begun to hear a
terrible and mournful sort of moaning and groaning, which frightened
them both and instantly made them friends. They took tight hold of one
another's hand, and again there came by a loud sighing, and a noise of
all sorts of lamentation, and it seemed to reach them through the
little door.

Each of the boys would now have been very glad to go back, but neither
liked to speak. At last Jack thought anything would be less terrible
than listening to those dismal moans, so he suddenly dashed through
the door, and the other Jack followed.

There was nothing terrible to be seen. They found themselves in a
place like an immensely long stable; but it was nearly dark, and when
their eyes got used to the dimness, they saw that it was strewed with
quantities of fresh hay, from which curious things like sticks stuck
up in all directions. What were they
said the boy-king
said Jack: but then the
other Jack suddenly perceived the real nature of the thing, and he
shouted out
The moment he said this the moaning ceased, hundreds of beautiful
antlered heads were lifted up, and the two boys stood before a
splendid herd of stags; but they had had hardly time to be sure of
this when the beautiful multitude rose and fled away into the
darkness, leaving the two boys to follow as well as they could.

They were sure they ought to run after the herd, and they ran and ran,
but they soon lost sight of it, though they heard far on in front what
seemed at first like a pattering of deer's feet, but the sound changed
from time to time. It became heavier and louder, and then the
clattering ceased, and it was evidently the tramping of a great crowd
of men. At last they heard words, very glad and thankful words; people
were crying to one another to make haste, lest the spell should come
upon them again. Then the two Jacks, still running, came into a grand
hall, which was quite full of knights and all sorts of fairy men, and
there was the boy-king's uncle, but he looked very pale
they cried
The two Jacks came on to the front, and felt and shook the door. At
last the boy-king saw a little golden key glittering on the floor,
just where the one narrow sunbeam fell that came through the keyhole;
so he snatched it up. It fitted, and out they all came, as you have
been told.

When they had done relating their adventures, the new Queen's health
was drunk. And then they drank the health of the boy-king, who stood
up to return thanks, and, as is the fashion there, he sang a song.
Jack thought it the most ridiculous song he had ever heard; but as
everybody else looked extremely grave, he tried to be grave too. It
was about Cock-Robin and Jenny Wren, how they made a wedding feast,
and how the wren said she should wear her brown gown, and the old dog
brought a bone to the feast
he said
The fairies were very attentive to this song; they seemed, if one may
judge by their looks, to think it was rather a serious one. Then they
drank Jack's health, and afterwards looked at him as if they expected
him to sing too; but as he did not begin, he presently heard them
whispering, and one asking another
So he thought he had better try what he could do, and he stood up and
sang a song that he had often heard his nurse sing in the nursery at
home.

  One morning, oh! so early, my beloved, my beloved,
  All the birds were singing blithely, as if never they would cease;
  'Twas a thrush sang in my garden
And the lark sang
And the dove said
Then I listened, oh! so early, my beloved, my beloved,
  To that murmur from the woodland of the dove, my dear, the dove;
  When the nightingale came after
When the wren sang
She made answer
Sweet is spring, and sweet the morning, my beloved, my beloved;
  Now for us doth spring, doth morning, wait upon the year's
        increase,
  And my prayer goes up
said the dame, at the other end of the table
said Jack. However, the court historian was
sent for to write down the song, and he came with a quill pen, and
wrote it down as the dame said it ought to be.

Now all this time Mopsa sat between the two Jacks, and she looked very
mournful,-- she hardly said a word.

When the feast was over, and everything had vanished, the musicians
came in, for there was to be dancing; but while they were striking
up, the white fairy stepped in, and, coming up, whispered something
in Jack's ear; but he could not hear what she said, so she repeated it
more slowly, and still he could neither hear nor understand it.

Mopsa did not seem to like the white fairy; she leaned her face on her
hand and sighed; but when she found that Jack could not hear the
message, she said
The fairy then spoke to Mopsa, but she would not listen; she
made a gesture of dislike and moved away. So then this strange fairy
turned and went out again, but on the door-step she looked round, and
beckoned to Jack to come to her. So he did; and then, as they two
stood together outside, she made him understand what she had said. It
was this
When Jack understood what she said he felt so sorrowful; he wondered
why she had told him, and he longed to stay in that great place with
Queen Mopsa,-- his own little Mopsa, whom he had carried in his pocket,
and taken care of, and loved.

He walked up and down, up and down, outside, and his heart swelled and
his eyes filled with tears. The bells had said he was to go home, and
the fairy had told him how to go. Mopsa did not need him, she had so
many people to take care of her; and then there was that boy, so
exactly like himself that she would not miss him. Oh, how sorrowful it
all was! Had he really come up the fairy river, and seen those strange
countries, and run away with Mopsa over those dangerous mountains,
only to bring her to the very place she wished to fly from, and there
to leave her, knowing that she wanted him no more, and that she was
quite content?

No; Jack felt that he could not do that
he said
As he spoke, he drew near to the great yawning door, and looked in.
The fairy folk were singing inside; he could hear their pretty
chirping voices, and see their beautiful faces, but he could not bear
it, and he turned away.

The sun began to get low, and all the west was dyed with crimson. Jack
dried his eyes, and, not liking to go in, took one turn more
he said
He set his
foot on the step of the door, and while he hesitated Mopsa came out to
meet him
she said, in a sweet mournful tone of voice. But he could not
make any answer; he only looked at her earnestly, because her lovely
eyes were not looking at him, but far away towards the west
she said, as if speaking to herself
Then she brought her eyes down slowly from the rose-flush in the
cloud, and looked at him and said
said Jack
She answered
So she stooped forward as she stood on the step, and kissed him, and
her tears fell on his cheek
she said, and she turned and went up the steps and into
the great hall; and while Jack gazed at her as she entered, and would
fain have followed, but could not stir, the great doors closed
together again, and he was left outside.

Then he knew, without having been told, that he should never enter
them any more. He stood gazing at the castle; but it was still,-- no
more fairy music sounded.

How beautiful it looked in the evening sunshine, and how Jack cried!

&lsqb;THE QUEEN'S FAREWELL
PAGE
234.&rsqb;

Suddenly he perceived that reeds were growing up between him and the
great doors: the grass, which had all day grown about the steps, was
getting taller; it had long spear-like leaves, it pushed up long pipes
of green stem, and they whistled.

They were up to his ankles, they were presently up to his waist; soon
they were as high as his head. He drew back that he might see over
them; they sprang up faster as he retired, and again he went back. It
seemed to him that the castle also receded; there was a long reach of
these great reeds between it and him, and now they were growing behind
also, and on all sides of him. He kept moving back and back: it was of
no use, they sprang up and grew yet more tall, till very shortly the
last glimpse of the fairy castle was hidden from his sorrowful eyes.

The sun was just touching the tops of the purple mountains when Jack
lost sight of Mopsa's home; but he remembered how he had penetrated
the bed of reeds in the morning, and he hoped to have the same good
fortune again. So on and on he walked, pressing his way among them as
well as he could, till the sun went down behind the mountains, and
the rosy sky turned gold color, and the gold began to burn itself
away, and then all on a sudden he came to the edge of the reed-bed,
and walked out upon a rising ground.

Jack ran up it, looking for the castle. He could not see it, so he
climbed a far higher hill; still he could not see it. At last, after a
toilsome ascent to the very top of the green mountain, he saw the
castle lying so far, so very far off, that its peaks and its
battlements were on the edge of the horizon, and the evening mist rose
while he was gazing, so that all its outlines were lost, and very soon
they seemed to mingle with the shapes of the hill and the forest, till
they had utterly vanished away.

Then he threw himself down on the short grass. The words of the white
fairy sounded in his ears
and he burst into
tears again, and decided to go home.

He looked up into the rosy sky, and held out his arms, and called
In a minute or two he saw a little black mark overhead, a small speck,
and it grew larger, and larger, and larger still, as it fell headlong
down like a stone. In another instant he saw a red light and a green
light, then he heard the winnowing noise of the bird's great wings,
and she alighted at his feet, and said
said Jack, hanging down his head and speaking in
a low voice, for his heart was heavy because of his failure
answered the bird. She took Jack on her back, and in
three minutes they were floating among the clouds.

As Jack's feet were lifted up from Fairyland he felt a little
consoled. He began to have a curious feeling, as if this had all
happened a good while ago, and then half the sorrow he had felt faded
into wonder, and the feeling still grew upon him that these things had
passed some great while since, so that he repeated to himself
Then he fell asleep, and did not dream at all, nor know anything more
till the bird woke him
she said
said Jack, rubbing his eyes
said the
bird
They were falling so fast that Jack dared not look; but he saw the
church, and the wood, and his father's house, which seemed to be
starting up to meet him. In two seconds more the bird alighted, and he
stepped down from her back into the deep grass of his father's
meadow
she said
and before he could ask her one question, or even thank her,
she made a wide sweep over the grass, beat her magnificent wings, and
soared away.

It was all very extraordinary, and Jack felt shy and ashamed; but he
knew he must go home, so he opened the little gate that led into the
garden, and stole through the shrubbery, hoping that his footsteps
would not be heard.

Then he came out on the lawn, where the flower-beds were, and he
observed that the drawing-room window was open, so he came softly
towards it and peeped in.

His father and mother were sitting there. Jack was delighted to see
them, but he did not say a word, and he wondered whether they would be
surprised at his having stayed away so long. The bird had said that
they would not.

He drew a little nearer. His mother sat with her back to the open
window, but a candle was burning, and she was reading aloud. Jack
listened as she read, and knew that this was not in the least like
anything that he had seen in Fairyland, nor the reading like anything
that he had heard, and he began to forget the boy-king, and the
apple-woman, and even his little Mopsa, more and more.

At last his father noticed him. He did not look at all surprised, but
just beckoned to him with his finger to come in. So Jack did, and got
upon his father's knee, where he curled himself up comfortably, laid
his head on his father's waistcoat, and wondered what he would think
if he should be told about the fairies in somebody else's waistcoat
pocket. He thought, besides, what a great thing a man was; he had
never seen anything so large in Fairyland, nor so important; so, on
the whole, he was glad he had come back, and felt very comfortable.
Then his mother, turning over the leaf, lifted up her eyes and looked
at Jack, but not as if she was in the least surprised, or more glad to
see him than usual; but she smoothed the leaf with her hand, and began
again to read, and this time it was about the Shepherd Lady:--

  I.

  Who pipes upon the long green hill,
    Where meadow grass is deep?
  The white lamb bleats but followeth on --
    Follow the clean white sheep.
  The dear white lady in yon high tower,
    She hearkeneth in her sleep.

  All in long grass the piper stands,
    Goodly and grave is he;
  Outside the tower, at dawn of day,
    The notes of his pipe ring free.
  A thought from his heart doth reach to hers
She lifts her head, she dons her gown:
    Ah! the lady is fair;
  She ties the girdle on her waist,
    And binds her flaxen hair,
  And down she stealeth, down and down,
    Down the turret stair.

  Behold him! With the flock he wons
    Along yon grassy lea
II
she saith at noon
she saith when day
    Draws on to eventide.

  Hark! hark! the shepherd's voice. Oh, sweet!
    Her tears drop down like rain
Right soft her speech
Gone are his footsteps over the hill,
    Withdrawn his goodly face;
  The mournful dusk begins to gather,
    The daylight wanes apace.

  III.

  On sunny slopes, ah! long the lady
    Feedeth her flock at noon;
  She leads them down to drink at eve
    Where the small rivulets croon.
  All night her locks are wet with dew,
    Her eyes outwatch the moon.

  Over the hills her voice is heard,
    She sings when light doth wane
When she had finished, Jack lifted his face and said
Then
she came to him and kissed him, and his father said
So he looked earnestly at them both, and as they still asked him no
questions, he kissed and wished them good-night; and his mother said
there were some strawberries on the sideboard in the dining-room, and
he might have them for his supper.

So he ran out into the hall, and was delighted to find all the house
just as usual, and after he had looked about him he went into his own
room, and said his prayers. Then he got into his little white bed, and
comfortably fell asleep.

That's all
</text>
