<text>
All children, except one, grow up. They soon know that they will grow
up, and the way Wendy knew was this. One day when she was two years old
she was playing in a garden, and she plucked another flower and ran with
it to her mother. I suppose she must have looked rather delightful, for
Mrs. Darling put her hand to her heart and cried
This was all that passed between them on
the subject, but henceforth Wendy knew that she must grow up. You always
know after you are two. Two is the beginning of the end.

Of course they lived at 14 &lsqb;their house number on their street&rsqb;, and
until Wendy came her mother was the chief one. She was a lovely lady,
with a romantic mind and such a sweet mocking mouth. Her romantic
mind was like the tiny boxes, one within the other, that come from the
puzzling East, however many you discover there is always one more; and
her sweet mocking mouth had one kiss on it that Wendy could never get,
though there it was, perfectly conspicuous in the right-hand corner.

The way Mr. Darling won her was this: the many gentlemen who had been
boys when she was a girl discovered simultaneously that they loved her,
and they all ran to her house to propose to her except Mr. Darling, who
took a cab and nipped in first, and so he got her. He got all of her,
except the innermost box and the kiss. He never knew about the box, and
in time he gave up trying for the kiss. Wendy thought Napoleon could
have got it, but I can picture him trying, and then going off in a
passion, slamming the door.

Mr. Darling used to boast to Wendy that her mother not only loved him
but respected him. He was one of those deep ones who know about stocks
and shares. Of course no one really knows, but he quite seemed to know,
and he often said stocks were up and shares were down in a way that
would have made any woman respect him.

Mrs. Darling was married in white, and at first she kept the books
perfectly, almost gleefully, as if it were a game, not so much as a
Brussels sprout was missing; but by and by whole cauliflowers dropped
out, and instead of them there were pictures of babies without faces.
She drew them when she should have been totting up. They were Mrs.
Darling's guesses.

Wendy came first, then John, then Michael.

For a week or two after Wendy came it was doubtful whether they would
be able to keep her, as she was another mouth to feed. Mr. Darling was
frightfully proud of her, but he was very honourable, and he sat on the
edge of Mrs. Darling's bed, holding her hand and calculating expenses,
while she looked at him imploringly. She wanted to risk it, come what
might, but that was not his way; his way was with a pencil and a piece
of paper, and if she confused him with suggestions he had to begin at
the beginning again
he would beg of her
she cried. But she was prejudiced in Wendy's
favour, and he was really the grander character of the two
he warned her almost threateningly, and off he went
again
and so on it went, and
it added up differently each time; but at last Wendy just got through,
with mumps reduced to twelve six, and the two kinds of measles treated
as one.

There was the same excitement over John, and Michael had even a narrower
squeak; but both were kept, and soon, you might have seen the three of
them going in a row to Miss Fulsom's Kindergarten school, accompanied by
their nurse.

Mrs. Darling loved to have everything just so, and Mr. Darling had a
passion for being exactly like his neighbours; so, of course, they had
a nurse. As they were poor, owing to the amount of milk the children
drank, this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog, called Nana, who had
belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings engaged her. She had
always thought children important, however, and the Darlings had become
acquainted with her in Kensington Gardens, where she spent most of her
spare time peeping into perambulators, and was much hated by careless
nursemaids, whom she followed to their homes and complained of to their
mistresses. She proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse. How thorough
she was at bath-time, and up at any moment of the night if one of her
charges made the slightest cry. Of course her kennel was in the nursery.
She had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have no patience
with and when it needs stocking around your throat. She believed to her
last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb leaf, and made sounds of
contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germs, and so on. It was a
lesson in propriety to see her escorting the children to school, walking
sedately by their side when they were well behaved, and butting them
back into line if they strayed. On John's footer &lsqb;in England soccer
was called football
for short&rsqb; days she never once forgot his
sweater, and she usually carried an umbrella in her mouth in case of
rain. There is a room in the basement of Miss Fulsom's school where the
nurses wait. They sat on forms, while Nana lay on the floor, but that
was the only difference. They affected to ignore her as of an inferior
social status to themselves, and she despised their light talk. She
resented visits to the nursery from Mrs. Darling's friends, but if they
did come she first whipped off Michael's pinafore and put him into the
one with blue braiding, and smoothed out Wendy and made a dash at John's
hair.

No nursery could possibly have been conducted more correctly, and
Mr. Darling knew it, yet he sometimes wondered uneasily whether the
neighbours talked.

He had his position in the city to consider.

Nana also troubled him in another way. He had sometimes a feeling that
she did not admire him
Mrs. Darling would assure him, and then she would sign to the children
to be specially nice to father. Lovely dances followed, in which the
only other servant, Liza, was sometimes allowed to join. Such a midget
she looked in her long skirt and maid's cap, though she had sworn, when
engaged, that she would never see ten again. The gaiety of those romps!
And gayest of all was Mrs. Darling, who would pirouette so wildly that
all you could see of her was the kiss, and then if you had dashed at her
you might have got it. There never was a simpler happier family until
the coming of Peter Pan.

Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her children's
minds. It is the nightly custom of every good mother after her children
are asleep to rummage in their minds and put things straight for next
morning, repacking into their proper places the many articles that have
wandered during the day. If you could keep awake (but of course you
can't) you would see your own mother doing this, and you would find it
very interesting to watch her. It is quite like tidying up drawers. You
would see her on her knees, I expect, lingering humorously over some of
your contents, wondering where on earth you had picked this thing up,
making discoveries sweet and not so sweet, pressing this to her cheek as
if it were as nice as a kitten, and hurriedly stowing that out of sight.
When you wake in the morning, the naughtiness and evil passions with
which you went to bed have been folded up small and placed at the bottom
of your mind and on the top, beautifully aired, are spread out your
prettier thoughts, ready for you to put on.

I don't know whether you have ever seen a map of a person's mind.
Doctors sometimes draw maps of other parts of you, and your own map can
become intensely interesting, but catch them trying to draw a map of a
child's mind, which is not only confused, but keeps going round all
the time. There are zigzag lines on it, just like your temperature on a
card, and these are probably roads in the island, for the Neverland is
always more or less an island, with astonishing splashes of colour here
and there, and coral reefs and rakish-looking craft in the offing, and
savages and lonely lairs, and gnomes who are mostly tailors, and caves
through which a river runs, and princes with six elder brothers, and a
hut fast going to decay, and one very small old lady with a hooked nose.
It would be an easy map if that were all, but there is also first day
at school, religion, fathers, the round pond, needle-work, murders,
hangings, verbs that take the dative, chocolate pudding day, getting
into braces, say ninety-nine, three-pence for pulling out your tooth
yourself, and so on, and either these are part of the island or they are
another map showing through, and it is all rather confusing, especially
as nothing will stand still.

Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal. John's, for instance, had a
lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which John was shooting, while
Michael, who was very small, had a flamingo with lagoons flying over
it. John lived in a boat turned upside down on the sands, Michael in
a wigwam, Wendy in a house of leaves deftly sewn together. John had no
friends, Michael had friends at night, Wendy had a pet wolf forsaken by
its parents, but on the whole the Neverlands have a family resemblance,
and if they stood still in a row you could say of them that they have
each other's nose, and so forth. On these magic shores children at play
are for ever beaching their coracles &lsqb;simple boat&rsqb;. We too have been
there; we can still hear the sound of the surf, though we shall land no
more.

Of all delectable islands the Neverland is the snuggest and most
compact, not large and sprawly, you know, with tedious distances between
one adventure and another, but nicely crammed. When you play at it by
day with the chairs and table-cloth, it is not in the least alarming,
but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it becomes very real. That
is why there are night-lights.

Occasionally in her travels through her children's minds Mrs. Darling
found things she could not understand, and of these quite the most
perplexing was the word Peter. She knew of no Peter, and yet he was
here and there in John and Michael's minds, while Wendy's began to be
scrawled all over with him. The name stood out in bolder letters than
any of the other words, and as Mrs. Darling gazed she felt that it had
an oddly cocky appearance
Wendy admitted with regret. Her mother had
been questioning her
At first Mrs. Darling did not know, but after thinking back into her
childhood she just remembered a Peter Pan who was said to live with the
fairies. There were odd stories about him, as that when children died he
went part of the way with them, so that they should not be frightened.
She had believed in him at the time, but now that she was married and
full of sense she quite doubted whether there was any such person
she said to Wendy
Wendy assured her confidently
She meant that he was her size in both mind and body; she
didn't know how she knew, she just knew it.

Mrs. Darling consulted Mr. Darling, but he smiled pooh-pooh
he said
But it would not blow over and soon the troublesome boy gave Mrs.
Darling quite a shock.

Children have the strangest adventures without being troubled by them.
For instance, they may remember to mention, a week after the event
happened, that when they were in the wood they had met their dead
father and had a game with him. It was in this casual way that Wendy one
morning made a disquieting revelation. Some leaves of a tree had been
found on the nursery floor, which certainly were not there when the
children went to bed, and Mrs. Darling was puzzling over them when Wendy
said with a tolerant smile
Wendy said, sighing. She
was a tidy child.

She explained in quite a matter-of-fact way that she thought Peter
sometimes came to the nursery in the night and sat on the foot of her
bed and played on his pipes to her. Unfortunately she never woke, so she
didn't know how she knew, she just knew
she said
It was quite true; the leaves had been found very near the window.

Mrs. Darling did not know what to think, for it all seemed so natural to
Wendy that you could not dismiss it by saying she had been dreaming
the mother cried
said Wendy lightly. She was in a hurry to get her breakfast.

Oh, surely she must have been dreaming.

But, on the other hand, there were the leaves. Mrs. Darling examined
them very carefully; they were skeleton leaves, but she was sure they
did not come from any tree that grew in England. She crawled about the
floor, peering at it with a candle for marks of a strange foot. She
rattled the poker up the chimney and tapped the walls. She let down a
tape from the window to the pavement, and it was a sheer drop of thirty
feet, without so much as a spout to climb up by.

Certainly Wendy had been dreaming.

But Wendy had not been dreaming, as the very next night showed, the
night on which the extraordinary adventures of these children may be
said to have begun.

On the night we speak of all the children were once more in bed. It
happened to be Nana's evening off, and Mrs. Darling had bathed them and
sung to them till one by one they had let go her hand and slid away into
the land of sleep.

All were looking so safe and cosy that she smiled at her fears now and
sat down tranquilly by the fire to sew.

It was something for Michael, who on his birthday was getting into
shirts. The fire was warm, however, and the nursery dimly lit by three
night-lights, and presently the sewing lay on Mrs. Darling's lap. Then
her head nodded, oh, so gracefully. She was asleep. Look at the four of
them, Wendy and Michael over there, John here, and Mrs. Darling by the
fire. There should have been a fourth night-light.

While she slept she had a dream. She dreamt that the Neverland had come
too near and that a strange boy had broken through from it. He did not
alarm her, for she thought she had seen him before in the faces of many
women who have no children. Perhaps he is to be found in the faces of
some mothers also. But in her dream he had rent the film that obscures
the Neverland, and she saw Wendy and John and Michael peeping through
the gap.

The dream by itself would have been a trifle, but while she was dreaming
the window of the nursery blew open, and a boy did drop on the floor.
He was accompanied by a strange light, no bigger than your fist, which
darted about the room like a living thing and I think it must have been
this light that wakened Mrs. Darling.

She started up with a cry, and saw the boy, and somehow she knew at once
that he was Peter Pan. If you or I or Wendy had been there we should
have seen that he was very like Mrs. Darling's kiss. He was a lovely
boy, clad in skeleton leaves and the juices that ooze out of trees but
the most entrancing thing about him was that he had all his first teeth.
When he saw she was a grown-up, he gnashed the little pearls at her
Mrs. Darling screamed, and, as if in answer to a bell, the door opened,
and Nana entered, returned from her evening out. She growled and sprang
at the boy, who leapt lightly through the window. Again Mrs. Darling
screamed, this time in distress for him, for she thought he was killed,
and she ran down into the street to look for his little body, but it
was not there; and she looked up, and in the black night she could see
nothing but what she thought was a shooting star.

She returned to the nursery, and found Nana with something in her mouth,
which proved to be the boy's shadow. As he leapt at the window Nana had
closed it quickly, too late to catch him, but his shadow had not had
time to get out; slam went the window and snapped it off.

You may be sure Mrs. Darling examined the shadow carefully, but it was
quite the ordinary kind.

Nana had no doubt of what was the best thing to do with this shadow. She
hung it out at the window, meaning
But unfortunately Mrs. Darling could not leave it hanging out at the
window, it looked so like the washing and lowered the whole tone of the
house. She thought of showing it to Mr. Darling, but he was totting up
winter great-coats for John and Michael, with a wet towel around his
head to keep his brain clear, and it seemed a shame to trouble him;
besides, she knew exactly what he would say
She decided to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a drawer,
until a fitting opportunity came for telling her husband. Ah me!

The opportunity came a week later, on that never-to-be-forgotten Friday.
Of course it was a Friday
she used to say
afterwards to her husband, while perhaps Nana was on the other side of
her, holding her hand
Mr. Darling always said
He had had a classical
education.

They sat thus night after night recalling that fatal Friday, till every
detail of it was stamped on their brains and came through on the other
side like the faces on a bad coinage
Mrs. Darling
said
said Mr.
Darling
was what Nana's wet eyes
said
Then one or more of them would break down altogether; Nana at the
thought
Many a time it was Mr. Darling who put the handkerchief to
Nana's eyes
Mr. Darling would cry, and Nana's bark was the echo of
it, but Mrs. Darling never upbraided Peter; there was something in the
right-hand corner of her mouth that wanted her not to call Peter names.

They would sit there in the empty nursery, recalling fondly every
smallest detail of that dreadful evening. It had begun so uneventfully,
so precisely like a hundred other evenings, with Nana putting on the
water for Michael's bath and carrying him to it on her back
he had shouted, like one who still believed that he
had the last word on the subject
Then Mrs. Darling had come in, wearing her white evening-gown. She had
dressed early because Wendy so loved to see her in her evening-gown,
with the necklace George had given her. She was wearing Wendy's bracelet
on her arm; she had asked for the loan of it. Wendy loved to lend her
bracelet to her mother.

She had found her two older children playing at being herself and father
on the occasion of Wendy's birth, and John was saying
in just such a tone as Mr. Darling himself may have used on the real
occasion.

Wendy had danced with joy, just as the real Mrs. Darling must have done.

Then John was born, with the extra pomp that he conceived due to the
birth of a male, and Michael came from his bath to ask to be born also,
but John said brutally that they did not want any more.

Michael had nearly cried
he said, and of course the
lady in the evening-dress could not stand that
she said
asked Michael, not too hopefully
Then he had leapt into her arms. Such a little thing for Mr. and Mrs.
Darling and Nana to recall now, but not so little if that was to be
Michael's last night in the nursery.

They go on with their recollections
Mr. Darling
would say, scorning himself; and indeed he had been like a tornado.

Perhaps there was some excuse for him. He, too, had been dressing for
the party, and all had gone well with him until he came to his tie. It
is an astounding thing to have to tell, but this man, though he knew
about stocks and shares, had no real mastery of his tie. Sometimes the
thing yielded to him without a contest, but there were occasions when it
would have been better for the house if he had swallowed his pride and
used a made-up tie.

This was such an occasion. He came rushing into the nursery with the
crumpled little brute of a tie in his hand
he yelled; he really yelled
He
became dangerously sarcastic
He thought Mrs. Darling was not sufficiently impressed, and he went on
sternly
Even then Mrs. Darling was placid
she said, and
indeed that was what he had come to ask her to do, and with her nice
cool hands she tied his tie for him, while the children stood around to
see their fate decided. Some men would have resented her being able to
do it so easily, but Mr. Darling had far too fine a nature for that; he
thanked her carelessly, at once forgot his rage, and in another moment
was dancing round the room with Michael on his back
says Mrs. Darling now, recalling it
Mr. Darling groaned
The romp had ended with the appearance of Nana, and most unluckily Mr.
Darling collided against her, covering his trousers with hairs. They
were not only new trousers, but they were the first he had ever had
with braid on them, and he had had to bite his lip to prevent the tears
coming. Of course Mrs. Darling brushed him, but he began to talk again
about its being a mistake to have a dog for a nurse
Mr. Darling said thoughtfully
It was an
opportunity, his wife felt, for telling him about the boy. At first he
pooh-poohed the story, but he became thoughtful when she showed him the
shadow
he said, examining it carefully
says Mr. Darling
Strong man though he was, there is no doubt that he had behaved rather
foolishly over the medicine. If he had a weakness, it was for thinking
that all his life he had taken medicine boldly, and so now, when Michael
dodged the spoon in Nana's mouth, he had said reprovingly
Michael cried naughtily. Mrs. Darling left the room to
get a chocolate for him, and Mr. Darling thought this showed want of
firmness
he called after her
He really thought this was true, and Wendy, who was now in her
night-gown, believed it also, and she said, to encourage Michael
Mr. Darling said bravely
He had not exactly lost it; he had climbed in the dead of night to the
top of the wardrobe and hidden it there. What he did not know was that
the faithful Liza had found it, and put it back on his wash-stand
Wendy cried, always glad to be of service
and she was off before he could stop her. Immediately
his spirits sank in the strangest way
he said, shuddering
John said cheerily, and then in rushed
Wendy with the medicine in a glass
she panted
her father retorted, with a
vindictive politeness that was quite thrown away upon her
he said doggedly
said Michael, who was of a suspicious nature
Mr. Darling said threateningly
said John
his father rapped out.

Wendy was quite puzzled
he retorted
His proud heart was nearly
bursting
said Michael coldly
Wendy had a splendid idea
said Mr. Darling
Wendy gave the words, one, two, three, and Michael took his medicine,
but Mr. Darling slipped his behind his back.

There was a yell of rage from Michael, and
Wendy exclaimed
Mr. Darling demanded
It was dreadful the way all the three were looking at him, just as if
they did not admire him
he said entreatingly,
as soon as Nana had gone into the bathroom
It was the colour of milk; but the children did not have their father's
sense of humour, and they looked at him reproachfully as he poured the
medicine into Nana's bowl
he said doubtfully, and they did
not dare expose him when Mrs. Darling and Nana returned
he said, patting her
Nana wagged her tail, ran to the medicine, and began lapping it. Then
she gave Mr. Darling such a look, not an angry look: she showed him the
great red tear that makes us so sorry for noble dogs, and crept into her
kennel.

Mr. Darling was frightfully ashamed of himself, but he would not give
in. In a horrid silence Mrs. Darling smelt the bowl
she
said
he roared, while she comforted her boys, and Wendy
hugged Nana
he said bitterly
And still Wendy hugged Nana
he shouted
Mrs. Darling entreated him
Somehow they had got into the way of calling Liza the
servants
he answered recklessly
The children wept, and Nana ran to him beseechingly, but he waved her
back. He felt he was a strong man again
he cried
Mrs. Darling whispered
Alas, he would not listen. He was determined to show who was master in
that house, and when commands would not draw Nana from the kennel, he
lured her out of it with honeyed words, and seizing her roughly, dragged
her from the nursery. He was ashamed of himself, and yet he did it.
It was all owing to his too affectionate nature, which craved for
admiration. When he had tied her up in the back-yard, the wretched
father went and sat in the passage, with his knuckles to his eyes.

In the meantime Mrs. Darling had put the children to bed in unwonted
silence and lit their night-lights. They could hear Nana barking, and
John whimpered
but
Wendy was wiser
she said, little guessing what was
about to happen
Danger
Mrs. Darling quivered and went to the window. It was securely fastened.
She looked out, and the night was peppered with stars. They were
crowding round the house, as if curious to see what was to take place
there, but she did not notice this, nor that one or two of the smaller
ones winked at her. Yet a nameless fear clutched at her heart and made
her cry
Even Michael, already half asleep, knew that she was perturbed, and he
asked
she said
She went from bed to bed singing enchantments over them, and little
Michael flung his arms round her
he cried
They were the last words she was to hear from him for a long time.

No. 27 was only a few yards distant, but there had been a slight fall of
snow, and Father and Mother Darling picked their way over it deftly not
to soil their shoes. They were already the only persons in the street,
and all the stars were watching them. Stars are beautiful, but they may
not take an active part in anything, they must just look on for ever. It
is a punishment put on them for something they did so long ago that no
star now knows what it was. So the older ones have become glassy-eyed
and seldom speak (winking is the star language), but the little
ones still wonder. They are not really friendly to Peter, who had a
mischievous way of stealing up behind them and trying to blow them out;
but they are so fond of fun that they were on his side to-night, and
anxious to get the grown-ups out of the way. So as soon as the door
of 27 closed on Mr. and Mrs. Darling there was a commotion in the
firmament, and the smallest of all the stars in the Milky Way screamed
out
For a moment after Mr. and Mrs. Darling left the house the night-lights
by the beds of the three children continued to burn clearly. They were
awfully nice little night-lights, and one cannot help wishing that they
could have kept awake to see Peter; but Wendy's light blinked and gave
such a yawn that the other two yawned also, and before they could close
their mouths all the three went out.

There was another light in the room now, a thousand times brighter than
the night-lights, and in the time we have taken to say this, it had been
in all the drawers in the nursery, looking for Peter's shadow, rummaged
the wardrobe and turned every pocket inside out. It was not really a
light; it made this light by flashing about so quickly, but when it came
to rest for a second you saw it was a fairy, no longer than your hand,
but still growing. It was a girl called Tinker Bell exquisitely gowned
in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which her figure could
be seen to the best advantage. She was slightly inclined to EMBONPOINT.
&lsqb;plump hourglass figure&rsqb;

A moment after the fairy's entrance the window was blown open by the
breathing of the little stars, and Peter dropped in. He had carried
Tinker Bell part of the way, and his hand was still messy with the fairy
dust
he called softly, after making sure that the children
were asleep
She was in a jug for the moment, and
liking it extremely; she had never been in a jug before
The loveliest tinkle as of golden bells answered him. It is the fairy
language. You ordinary children can never hear it, but if you were to
hear it you would know that you had heard it once before.

Tink said that the shadow was in the big box. She meant the chest of
drawers, and Peter jumped at the drawers, scattering their contents to
the floor with both hands, as kings toss ha'pence to the crowd. In a
moment he had recovered his shadow, and in his delight he forgot that he
had shut Tinker Bell up in the drawer.

If he thought at all, but I don't believe he ever thought, it was that
he and his shadow, when brought near each other, would join like drops
of water, and when they did not he was appalled. He tried to stick it
on with soap from the bathroom, but that also failed. A shudder passed
through Peter, and he sat on the floor and cried.

His sobs woke Wendy, and she sat up in bed. She was not alarmed to see
a stranger crying on the nursery floor; she was only pleasantly
interested
she said courteously
Peter could be exceeding polite also, having learned the grand manner at
fairy ceremonies, and he rose and bowed to her beautifully. She was much
pleased, and bowed beautifully to him from the bed
he asked
she replied with some satisfaction
She was already sure that he must be Peter, but it did seem a
comparatively short name
he said rather sharply. He felt for the first time that it was a
shortish name
said Wendy Moira Angela
Peter gulped.

She asked where he lived
said Peter
Peter had a sinking. For the first time he felt that perhaps it was a
funny address
he said
Wendy said nicely, remembering that she was hostess
He wished she had not mentioned letters
he said contemptuously
he said. Not only had he no mother, but he had
not the slightest desire to have one. He thought them very over-rated
persons. Wendy, however, felt at once that she was in the presence of a
tragedy
she said, and got out of bed and
ran to him
he said rather indignantly
Then Wendy saw the shadow on the floor, looking so draggled, and she was
frightfully sorry for Peter
she said, but she could not
help smiling when she saw that he had been trying to stick it on with
soap. How exactly like a boy!

Fortunately she knew at once what to do
she said,
just a little patronisingly
he asked
But she was exulting in his ignorance
she said, though he was tall as herself, and she got out
her housewife &lsqb;sewing bag&rsqb;, and sewed the shadow on to Peter's foot
she warned him
said Peter, who was already of the opinion that he
had never cried in his life. And he clenched his teeth and did not
cry, and soon his shadow was behaving properly, though still a little
creased
Wendy said thoughtfully, but Peter,
boylike, was indifferent to appearances, and he was now jumping about in
the wildest glee. Alas, he had already forgotten that he owed his bliss
to Wendy. He thought he had attached the shadow himself
he crowed rapturously
It is humiliating to have to confess that this conceit of Peter was
one of his most fascinating qualities. To put it with brutal frankness,
there never was a cockier boy.

But for the moment Wendy was shocked
she
exclaimed, with frightful sarcasm
Peter said carelessly, and continued to dance
she replied with hauteur &lsqb;pride
and she sprang in the most dignified way into bed and
covered her face with the blankets.

To induce her to look up he pretended to be going away, and when this
failed he sat on the end of the bed and tapped her gently with his foot
he said
Still she would not look up, though she was
listening eagerly
he continued, in a voice that no woman has
ever yet been able to resist
Now Wendy was every inch a woman, though there were not very many
inches, and she peeped out of the bed-clothes
she declared
and she sat with him on the side of the bed. She also said
she would give him a kiss if he liked, but Peter did not know what she
meant, and he held out his hand expectantly
she asked, aghast
he replied stiffly, and not to
hurt his feeling she gave him a thimble
said he
and she replied with a slight
primness
She made herself rather cheap by inclining
her face toward him, but he merely dropped an acorn button into her
hand, so she slowly returned her face to where it had been before, and
said nicely that she would wear his kiss on the chain around her neck.
It was lucky that she did put it on that chain, for it was afterwards to
save her life.

When people in our set are introduced, it is customary for them to
ask each other's age, and so Wendy, who always liked to do the correct
thing, asked Peter how old he was. It was not really a happy question to
ask him; it was like an examination paper that asks grammar, when what
you want to be asked is Kings of England
he replied uneasily
He really
knew nothing about it, he had merely suspicions, but he said at a
venture
Wendy was quite surprised, but interested; and she indicated in the
charming drawing-room manner, by a touch on her night-gown, that he
could sit nearer her
he explained in a low
voice
He was
extraordinarily agitated now
he said
with passion
She gave him a look of the most intense admiration, and he thought it
was because he had run away, but it was really because he knew fairies.
Wendy had lived such a home life that to know fairies struck her as
quite delightful. She poured out questions about them, to his surprise,
for they were rather a nuisance to him, getting in his way and so on,
and indeed he sometimes had to give them a hiding &lsqb;spanking&rsqb;. Still, he
liked them on the whole, and he told her about the beginning of fairies
Tedious talk this, but being a stay-at-home she liked it
he went on good-naturedly
Really, he thought they had now talked enough about fairies, and it
struck him that Tinker Bell was keeping very quiet
he said, rising, and he called Tink by name. Wendy's
heart went flutter with a sudden thrill
she cried, clutching him
he said a little impatiently
and they both listened
said Wendy
The sound came from the chest of drawers, and Peter made a merry face.
No one could ever look quite so merry as Peter, and the loveliest of
gurgles was his laugh. He had his first laugh still
he whispered gleefully
He let poor Tink out of the drawer, and she flew about the nursery
screaming with fury
Peter retorted
Wendy was not listening to him
she cried
he said, but for one moment Wendy saw
the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock
she cried, though Tink's face was still distorted with passion
said Peter amiably
Tinker Bell answered insolently
He had to translate
He tried to argue with Tink
To this Tink replied in these words
and disappeared
into the bathroom
Peter explained
apologetically
Similar to "cinder" plus "elle" to
get Cinderella&rsqb;

They were together in the armchair by this time, and Wendy plied him
with more questions
said cunning Peter
This flattered Wendy immensely
she said
For reply Peter rose and kicked John out of bed, blankets and all; one
kick. This seemed to Wendy rather forward for a first meeting, and she
told him with spirit that he was not captain in her house. However,
John continued to sleep so placidly on the floor that she allowed him
to remain there
she said, relenting
For the moment she had forgotten his ignorance about kisses
he said a little bitterly, and offered to
return her the thimble
said the nice Wendy
She kissed him
said Peter gravely
said Wendy, keeping her head erect this time.

Peter thimbled her, and almost immediately she screeched
And indeed Tink was darting about again, using offensive language
Again Tink replied
Peter could not understand why,
but Wendy understood, and she was just slightly disappointed when he
admitted that he came to the nursery window not to see her but to listen
to stories
Wendy said
Peter asked
said Wendy excitedly
Peter was so glad that he rose from the floor, where they had been
sitting, and hurried to the window
she cried with misgiving
she entreated
Those were her precise words, so there can be no denying that it was she
who first tempted him.

He came back, and there was a greedy look in his eyes now which ought to
have alarmed her, but did not
she cried, and then Peter
gripped her and began to draw her toward the window
she ordered him
Of course she was very pleased to be asked, but she said
she exclaimed rapturously
cried Wendy
He had become frightfully cunning
he said
She was wriggling her body in distress. It was quite as if she were
trying to remain on the nursery floor.

But he had no pity for her
he said, the sly one
and her arms went out to him
How could she resist
she cried
he said indifferently, and she ran to John and Michael
and shook them
she cried
John rubbed his eyes
he said. Of course he was
on the floor already
he said
Michael was up by this time also, looking as sharp as a knife with six
blades and a saw, but Peter suddenly signed silence. Their faces assumed
the awful craftiness of children listening for sounds from the grown-up
world. All was as still as salt. Then everything was right. No, stop!
Everything was wrong. Nana, who had been barking distressfully all the
evening, was quiet now. It was her silence they had heard
cried John, taking command for the
only time throughout the whole adventure. And thus when Liza entered,
holding Nana, the nursery seemed quite its old self, very dark, and
you would have sworn you heard its three wicked inmates breathing
angelically as they slept. They were really doing it artfully from
behind the window curtains.

Liza was in a bad temper, for she was mixing the Christmas puddings in
the kitchen, and had been drawn from them, with a raisin still on her
cheek, by Nana's absurd suspicions. She thought the best way of getting
a little quiet was to take Nana to the nursery for a moment, but in
custody of course
she said, not sorry that Nana was in
disgrace
Here Michael, encouraged by his success, breathed so loudly that they
were nearly detected. Nana knew that kind of breathing, and she tried to
drag herself out of Liza's clutches.

But Liza was dense
she said sternly, pulling
her out of the room
She tied the unhappy dog up again, but do you think Nana ceased to bark?
Bring master and missus home from the party! Why, that was just what she
wanted. Do you think she cared whether she was whipped so long as her
charges were safe? Unfortunately Liza returned to her puddings, and
Nana, seeing that no help would come from her, strained and strained at
the chain until at last she broke it. In another moment she had burst
into the dining-room of 27 and flung up her paws to heaven, her most
expressive way of making a communication. Mr. and Mrs. Darling knew at
once that something terrible was happening in their nursery, and without
a good-bye to their hostess they rushed into the street.

But it was now ten minutes since three scoundrels had been breathing
behind the curtains, and Peter Pan can do a great deal in ten minutes.

We now return to the nursery
John announced, emerging from his hiding-place
Instead of troubling to answer him Peter flew around the room, taking
the mantelpiece on the way
said John and Michael
cried Wendy
said Peter, forgetting his manners
again.

It looked delightfully easy, and they tried it first from the floor and
then from the beds, but they always went down instead of up
asked John, rubbing his knee. He was quite a
practical boy
Peter explained
He showed them again
John said
Peter did it both slowly and quickly
cried
John, but soon he found he had not. Not one of them could fly an inch,
though even Michael was in words of two syllables, and Peter did not
know A from Z.

Of course Peter had been trifling with them, for no one can fly unless
the fairy dust has been blown on him. Fortunately, as we have mentioned,
one of his hands was messy with it, and he blew some on each of them,
with the most superb results
he said
They were all on their beds, and gallant Michael let go first. He did
not quite mean to let go, but he did it, and immediately he was borne
across the room
he screamed while still in mid-air.

John let go and met Wendy near the bathroom
They were not nearly so elegant as Peter, they could not help kicking a
little, but their heads were bobbing against the ceiling, and there is
almost nothing so delicious as that. Peter gave Wendy a hand at first,
but had to desist, Tink was so indignant.

Up and down they went, and round and round. Heavenly was Wendy's word
cried John
Of course it was to this that Peter had been luring them.

Michael was ready: he wanted to see how long it took him to do a billion
miles. But Wendy hesitated
said Peter again
cried John, seizing his Sunday hat
It was just at this moment that Mr. and Mrs. Darling hurried with Nana
out of 27. They ran into the middle of the street to look up at the
nursery window; and, yes, it was still shut, but the room was ablaze
with light, and most heart-gripping sight of all, they could see in
shadow on the curtain three little figures in night attire circling
round and round, not on the floor but in the air.

Not three figures, four!

In a tremble they opened the street door. Mr. Darling would have rushed
upstairs, but Mrs. Darling signed him to go softly. She even tried to
make her heart go softly.

Will they reach the nursery in time? If so, how delightful for them, and
we shall all breathe a sigh of relief, but there will be no story. On
the other hand, if they are not in time, I solemnly promise that it will
all come right in the end.

They would have reached the nursery in time had it not been that the
little stars were watching them. Once again the stars blew the window
open, and that smallest star of all called out
Then Peter knew that there was not a moment to lose
he cried
imperiously, and soared out at once into the night, followed by John and
Michael and Wendy.

Mr. and Mrs. Darling and Nana rushed into the nursery too late. The
birds were flown
That, Peter had told Wendy, was the way to the Neverland; but even
birds, carrying maps and consulting them at windy corners, could not
have sighted it with these instructions. Peter, you see, just said
anything that came into his head.

At first his companions trusted him implicitly, and so great were the
delights of flying that they wasted time circling round church spires or
any other tall objects on the way that took their fancy.

John and Michael raced, Michael getting a start.

They recalled with contempt that not so long ago they had thought
themselves fine fellows for being able to fly round a room.

Not long ago. But how long ago? They were flying over the sea before
this thought began to disturb Wendy seriously. John thought it was their
second sea and their third night.

Sometimes it was dark and sometimes light, and now they were very cold
and again too warm. Did they really feel hungry at times, or were they
merely pretending, because Peter had such a jolly new way of feeding
them? His way was to pursue birds who had food in their mouths suitable
for humans and snatch it from them; then the birds would follow and
snatch it back; and they would all go chasing each other gaily for
miles, parting at last with mutual expressions of good-will. But Wendy
noticed with gentle concern that Peter did not seem to know that this
was rather an odd way of getting your bread and butter, nor even that
there are other ways.

Certainly they did not pretend to be sleepy, they were sleepy; and that
was a danger, for the moment they popped off, down they fell. The awful
thing was that Peter thought this funny
he would cry gleefully, as Michael suddenly
dropped like a stone
cried Wendy, looking with horror at the cruel
sea far below. Eventually Peter would dive through the air, and catch
Michael just before he could strike the sea, and it was lovely the way
he did it; but he always waited till the last moment, and you felt it
was his cleverness that interested him and not the saving of human life.
Also he was fond of variety, and the sport that engrossed him one moment
would suddenly cease to engage him, so there was always the possibility
that the next time you fell he would let you go.

He could sleep in the air without falling, by merely lying on his back
and floating, but this was, partly at least, because he was so light
that if you got behind him and blew he went faster
Wendy whispered to John, when they were
playing
said John.

When playing Follow my Leader, Peter would fly close to the water and
touch each shark's tail in passing, just as in the street you may run
your finger along an iron railing. They could not follow him in this
with much success, so perhaps it was rather like showing off, especially
as he kept looking behind to see how many tails they missed
Wendy impressed on her brothers
Michael said
said John
This was true, Peter had forgotten to show them how to stop.

John said that if the worst came to the worst, all they had to do was to
go straight on, for the world was round, and so in time they must come
back to their own window
Wendy reminded him
Indeed they were constantly bumping. They could now fly strongly, though
they still kicked far too much; but if they saw a cloud in front of
them, the more they tried to avoid it, the more certainly did they bump
into it. If Nana had been with them, she would have had a bandage round
Michael's forehead by this time.

Peter was not with them for the moment, and they felt rather lonely up
there by themselves. He could go so much faster than they that he would
suddenly shoot out of sight, to have some adventure in which they had no
share. He would come down laughing over something fearfully funny he had
been saying to a star, but he had already forgotten what it was, or he
would come up with mermaid scales still sticking to him, and yet not be
able to say for certain what had been happening. It was really rather
irritating to children who had never seen a mermaid
Wendy argued
Indeed, sometimes when he returned he did not remember them, at least
not well. Wendy was sure of it. She saw recognition come into his eyes
as he was about to pass them the time of day and go on; once even she
had to call him by name
she said agitatedly.

He was very sorry
he whispered to her
Of course this was rather unsatisfactory. However, to make amends he
showed them how to lie out flat on a strong wind that was going their
way, and this was such a pleasant change that they tried it several
times and found that they could sleep thus with security. Indeed they
would have slept longer, but Peter tired quickly of sleeping, and soon
he would cry in his captain voice
So with occasional
tiffs, but on the whole rollicking, they drew near the Neverland; for
after many moons they did reach it, and, what is more, they had been
going pretty straight all the time, not perhaps so much owing to the
guidance of Peter or Tink as because the island was looking for them. It
is only thus that any one may sight those magic shores
said Peter calmly
Indeed a million golden arrows were pointing it out to the children, all
directed by their friend the sun, who wanted them to be sure of their
way before leaving them for the night.

Wendy and John and Michael stood on tip-toe in the air to get their
first sight of the island. Strange to say, they all recognized it at
once, and until fear fell upon them they hailed it, not as something
long dreamt of and seen at last, but as a familiar friend to whom they
were returning home for the holidays
Peter was a little annoyed with them for knowing so much, but if he
wanted to lord it over them his triumph was at hand, for have I not told
you that anon fear fell upon them?

It came as the arrows went, leaving the island in gloom.

In the old days at home the Neverland had always begun to look a little
dark and threatening by bedtime. Then unexplored patches arose in it
and spread, black shadows moved about in them, the roar of the beasts of
prey was quite different now, and above all, you lost the certainty that
you would win. You were quite glad that the night-lights were on. You
even liked Nana to say that this was just the mantelpiece over here, and
that the Neverland was all make-believe.

Of course the Neverland had been make-believe in those days, but it
was real now, and there were no night-lights, and it was getting darker
every moment, and where was Nana?

They had been flying apart, but they huddled close to Peter now. His
careless manner had gone at last, his eyes were sparkling, and a tingle
went through them every time they touched his body. They were now over
the fearsome island, flying so low that sometimes a tree grazed their
feet. Nothing horrid was visible in the air, yet their progress had
become slow and laboured, exactly as if they were pushing their way
through hostile forces. Sometimes they hung in the air until Peter had
beaten on it with his fists
he explained
Wendy whispered, shuddering.

But he could not or would not say. Tinker Bell had been asleep on his
shoulder, but now he wakened her and sent her on in front.

Sometimes he poised himself in the air, listening intently, with his
hand to his ear, and again he would stare down with eyes so bright that
they seemed to bore two holes to earth. Having done these things, he
went on again.

His courage was almost appalling
he
said casually to John
Wendy said "tea first" quickly, and Michael pressed her hand in
gratitude, but the braver John hesitated
he asked cautiously
Peter told him
John said after a long pause
John said, a little huskily
Peter spoke indignantly
John said
but decided to have tea first. He asked if
there were many pirates on the island just now, and Peter said he had
never known so many
answered Peter, and his face became very stern as he said that
hated word
Then indeed Michael began to cry, and even John could speak in gulps
only, for they knew Hook's reputation
John whispered huskily
said Peter
said Peter sharply
said Peter
Say, 'Ay, ay, sir
Peter continued
John paled
John said loyally.

For the moment they were feeling less eerie, because Tink was flying
with them, and in her light they could distinguish each other.
Unfortunately she could not fly so slowly as they, and so she had to go
round and round them in a circle in which they moved as in a halo. Wendy
quite liked it, until Peter pointed out the drawbacks
he said
the three cried simultaneously,
but he refused
he replied stiffly
For a moment the circle of light was broken, and something gave Peter a
loving little pinch
Wendy begged
John almost ordered
growled John
Here he got a pinch, but not a loving one
Peter said
However, they had set off in such a hurry that there was not a
pocket between the four of them.

He had a happy idea. John's hat!

Tink agreed to travel by hat if it was carried in the hand. John carried
it, though she had hoped to be carried by Peter. Presently Wendy took
the hat, because John said it struck against his knee as he flew; and
this, as we shall see, led to mischief, for Tinker Bell hated to be
under an obligation to Wendy.

In the black topper the light was completely hidden, and they flew on in
silence. It was the stillest silence they had ever known, broken once by
a distant lapping, which Peter explained was the wild beasts drinking at
the ford, and again by a rasping sound that might have been the branches
of trees rubbing together, but he said it was the redskins sharpening
their knives.

Even these noises ceased. To Michael the loneliness was dreadful
he cried.

As if in answer to his request, the air was rent by the most tremendous
crash he had ever heard. The pirates had fired Long Tom at them.

The roar of it echoed through the mountains, and the echoes seemed to
cry savagely
Thus sharply did the terrified three learn the difference between an
island of make-believe and the same island come true.

When at last the heavens were steady again, John and Michael
found themselves alone in the darkness. John was treading the air
mechanically, and Michael without knowing how to float was floating
John whispered tremulously
Michael whispered back.

We know now that no one had been hit. Peter, however, had been carried
by the wind of the shot far out to sea, while Wendy was blown upwards
with no companion but Tinker Bell.

It would have been well for Wendy if at that moment she had dropped the
hat.

I don't know whether the idea came suddenly to Tink, or whether she had
planned it on the way, but she at once popped out of the hat and began
to lure Wendy to her destruction.

Tink was not all bad; or, rather, she was all bad just now, but, on the
other hand, sometimes she was all good. Fairies have to be one thing or
the other, because being so small they unfortunately have room for one
feeling only at a time. They are, however, allowed to change, only it
must be a complete change. At present she was full of jealousy of Wendy.
What she said in her lovely tinkle Wendy could not of course understand,
and I believe some of it was bad words, but it sounded kind, and she
flew back and forward, plainly meaning
What else could poor Wendy do? She called to Peter and John and Michael,
and got only mocking echoes in reply. She did not yet know that Tink
hated her with the fierce hatred of a very woman. And so, bewildered,
and now staggering in her flight, she followed Tink to her doom
Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again woke
into life. We ought to use the pluperfect and say wakened, but woke is
better and was always used by Peter.

In his absence things are usually quiet on the island. The fairies take
an hour longer in the morning, the beasts attend to their young, the
redskins feed heavily for six days and nights, and when pirates and
lost boys meet they merely bite their thumbs at each other. But with the
coming of Peter, who hates lethargy, they are under way again: if you
put your ear to the ground now, you would hear the whole island seething
with life.

On this evening the chief forces of the island were disposed as follows.
The lost boys were out looking for Peter, the pirates were out looking
for the lost boys, the redskins were out looking for the pirates, and
the beasts were out looking for the redskins. They were going round and
round the island, but they did not meet because all were going at the
same rate.

All wanted blood except the boys, who liked it as a rule, but to-night
were out to greet their captain. The boys on the island vary, of course,
in numbers, according as they get killed and so on; and when they seem
to be growing up, which is against the rules, Peter thins them out; but
at this time there were six of them, counting the twins as two. Let us
pretend to lie here among the sugar-cane and watch them as they steal by
in single file, each with his hand on his dagger.

They are forbidden by Peter to look in the least like him, and they wear
the skins of the bears slain by themselves, in which they are so round
and furry that when they fall they roll. They have therefore become very
sure-footed.

The first to pass is Tootles, not the least brave but the most
unfortunate of all that gallant band. He had been in fewer adventures
than any of them, because the big things constantly happened just when
he had stepped round the corner; all would be quiet, he would take the
opportunity of going off to gather a few sticks for firewood, and
then when he returned the others would be sweeping up the blood. This
ill-luck had given a gentle melancholy to his countenance, but instead
of souring his nature had sweetened it, so that he was quite the
humblest of the boys. Poor kind Tootles, there is danger in the air for
you to-night. Take care lest an adventure is now offered you, which, if
accepted, will plunge you in deepest woe. Tootles, the fairy Tink, who
is bent on mischief this night is looking for a tool &lsqb;for doing her
mischief&rsqb;, and she thinks you are the most easily tricked of the boys.
'Ware Tinker Bell.

Would that he could hear us, but we are not really on the island, and he
passes by, biting his knuckles.

Next comes Nibs, the gay and debonair, followed by Slightly, who cuts
whistles out of the trees and dances ecstatically to his own tunes.
Slightly is the most conceited of the boys. He thinks he remembers the
days before he was lost, with their manners and customs, and this has
given his nose an offensive tilt. Curly is fourth; he is a pickle, &lsqb;a
person who gets in pickles-predicaments&rsqb; and so often has he had to
deliver up his person when Peter said sternly
that now at the command he stands forth automatically
whether he has done it or not. Last come the Twins, who cannot be
described because we should be sure to be describing the wrong one.
Peter never quite knew what twins were, and his band were not allowed
to know anything he did not know, so these two were always vague about
themselves, and did their best to give satisfaction by keeping close
together in an apologetic sort of way.

The boys vanish in the gloom, and after a pause, but not a long pause,
for things go briskly on the island, come the pirates on their track. We
hear them before they are seen, and it is always the same dreadful song
A more villainous-looking lot never hung in a row on Execution dock.
Here, a little in advance, ever and again with his head to the
ground listening, his great arms bare, pieces of eight in his ears as
ornaments, is the handsome Italian Cecco, who cut his name in letters
of blood on the back of the governor of the prison at Gao. That gigantic
black behind him has had many names since he dropped the one with
which dusky mothers still terrify their children on the banks of the
Guadjo-mo. Here is Bill Jukes, every inch of him tattooed, the same Bill
Jukes who got six dozen on the WALRUS from Flint before he would drop
the bag of moidores &lsqb;Portuguese gold pieces&rsqb;; and Cookson, said to
be Black Murphy's brother (but this was never proved), and Gentleman
Starkey, once an usher in a public school and still dainty in his ways
of killing; and Skylights (Morgan's Skylights); and the Irish bo'sun
Smee, an oddly genial man who stabbed, so to speak, without offence,
and was the only Non-conformist in Hook's crew; and Noodler, whose
hands were fixed on backwards; and Robt. Mullins and Alf Mason and many
another ruffian long known and feared on the Spanish Main.

In the midst of them, the blackest and largest in that dark setting,
reclined James Hook, or as he wrote himself, Jas. Hook, of whom it is
said he was the only man that the Sea-Cook feared. He lay at his ease in
a rough chariot drawn and propelled by his men, and instead of a right
hand he had the iron hook with which ever and anon he encouraged them
to increase their pace. As dogs this terrible man treated and addressed
them, and as dogs they obeyed him. In person he was cadaverous &lsqb;dead
looking&rsqb; and blackavized &lsqb;dark faced&rsqb;, and his hair was dressed in long
curls, which at a little distance looked like black candles, and gave a
singularly threatening expression to his handsome countenance. His eyes
were of the blue of the forget-me-not, and of a profound melancholy,
save when he was plunging his hook into you, at which time two red spots
appeared in them and lit them up horribly. In manner, something of the
grand seigneur still clung to him, so that he even ripped you up with
an air, and I have been told that he was a RACONTEUR &lsqb;storyteller&rsqb; of
repute. He was never more sinister than when he was most polite,
which is probably the truest test of breeding; and the elegance of his
diction, even when he was swearing, no less than the distinction of his
demeanour, showed him one of a different cast from his crew. A man of
indomitable courage, it was said that the only thing he shied at was
the sight of his own blood, which was thick and of an unusual colour.
In dress he somewhat aped the attire associated with the name of Charles
II, having heard it said in some earlier period of his career that he
bore a strange resemblance to the ill-fated Stuarts; and in his mouth
he had a holder of his own contrivance which enabled him to smoke two
cigars at once. But undoubtedly the grimmest part of him was his iron
claw.

Let us now kill a pirate, to show Hook's method. Skylights will do. As
they pass, Skylights lurches clumsily against him, ruffling his lace
collar; the hook shoots forth, there is a tearing sound and one screech,
then the body is kicked aside, and the pirates pass on. He has not even
taken the cigars from his mouth.

Such is the terrible man against whom Peter Pan is pitted. Which will
win?

On the trail of the pirates, stealing noiselessly down the war-path,
which is not visible to inexperienced eyes, come the redskins, every one
of them with his eyes peeled. They carry tomahawks and knives, and their
naked bodies gleam with paint and oil. Strung around them are scalps, of
boys as well as of pirates, for these are the Piccaninny tribe, and not
to be confused with the softer-hearted Delawares or the Hurons. In
the van, on all fours, is Great Big Little Panther, a brave of so many
scalps that in his present position they somewhat impede his progress.
Bringing up the rear, the place of greatest danger, comes Tiger Lily,
proudly erect, a princess in her own right. She is the most beautiful
of dusky Dianas &lsqb;Diana = goddess of the woods&rsqb; and the belle of the
Piccaninnies, coquettish &lsqb;flirting&rsqb;, cold and amorous &lsqb;loving&rsqb; by turns;
there is not a brave who would not have the wayward thing to wife, but
she staves off the altar with a hatchet. Observe how they pass over
fallen twigs without making the slightest noise. The only sound to be
heard is their somewhat heavy breathing. The fact is that they are all a
little fat just now after the heavy gorging, but in time they will work
this off. For the moment, however, it constitutes their chief danger.

The redskins disappear as they have come like shadows, and soon their
place is taken by the beasts, a great and motley procession: lions,
tigers, bears, and the innumerable smaller savage things that flee
from them, for every kind of beast, and, more particularly, all the
man-eaters, live cheek by jowl on the favoured island. Their tongues are
hanging out, they are hungry to-night.

When they have passed, comes the last figure of all, a gigantic
crocodile. We shall see for whom she is looking presently.

The crocodile passes, but soon the boys appear again, for the procession
must continue indefinitely until one of the parties stops or changes its
pace. Then quickly they will be on top of each other.

All are keeping a sharp look-out in front, but none suspects that the
danger may be creeping up from behind. This shows how real the island
was.

The first to fall out of the moving circle was the boys. They flung
themselves down on the sward &lsqb;turf&rsqb;, close to their underground home
every one of them said nervously,
though in height and still more in breadth they were all larger than
their captain
Slightly said, in
the tone that prevented his being a general favourite; but perhaps some
distant sound disturbed him, for he added hastily
They talked of Cinderella, and Tootles was confident that his mother
must have been very like her.

It was only in Peter's absence that they could speak of mothers, the
subject being forbidden by him as silly
Nibs told them
While they talked they heard a distant sound. You or I, not being wild
things of the woods, would have heard nothing, but they heard it, and it
was the grim song
At once the lost boys -- but where are they? They are no longer there.
Rabbits could not have disappeared more quickly.

I will tell you where they are. With the exception of Nibs, who has
darted away to reconnoitre &lsqb;look around&rsqb;, they are already in their home
under the ground, a very delightful residence of which we shall see
a good deal presently. But how have they reached it? for there is no
entrance to be seen, not so much as a large stone, which if rolled away,
would disclose the mouth of a cave. Look closely, however, and you may
note that there are here seven large trees, each with a hole in its
hollow trunk as large as a boy. These are the seven entrances to the
home under the ground, for which Hook has been searching in vain these
many moons. Will he find it tonight?

As the pirates advanced, the quick eye of Starkey sighted Nibs
disappearing through the wood, and at once his pistol flashed out. But
an iron claw gripped his shoulder
he cried, writhing.

Now for the first time we hear the voice of Hook. It was a black voice
it said threateningly
asked pathetic Smee
Smee had pleasant names for everything, and his
cutlass was Johnny Corkscrew, because he wiggled it in the wound. One
could mention many lovable traits in Smee. For instance, after killing,
it was his spectacles he wiped instead of his weapon
he reminded Hook
Hook said darkly
The pirates disappeared among the trees, and in a moment their Captain
and Smee were alone. Hook heaved a heavy sigh, and I know not why it
was, perhaps it was because of the soft beauty of the evening, but there
came over him a desire to confide to his faithful bo'sun the story of
his life. He spoke long and earnestly, but what it was all about Smee,
who was rather stupid, did not know in the least.

Anon &lsqb;later&rsqb; he caught the word Peter
Hook was saying passionately
He brandished the hook
threateningly
said Smee
the captain answered
and he cast a look of pride
upon his iron hand and one of scorn upon the other. Then again he
frowned
he said, wincing
said Smee
Hook corrected him
He
lowered his voice
said Smee
Hook barked petulantly
He sat down on a large mushroom, and now there was a quiver in his
voice
he said huskily
He
laughed, but in a hollow way
said Smee
Hook wetted his dry lips
he said
Since sitting down he had felt curiously warm
he said
He jumped up
They examined the mushroom, which was of a size and solidity unknown
on the mainland; they tried to pull it up, and it came away at once in
their hands, for it had no root. Stranger still, smoke began at once
to ascend. The pirates looked at each other
they both
exclaimed.

They had indeed discovered the chimney of the home under the ground. It
was the custom of the boys to stop it with a mushroom when enemies were
in the neighbourhood.

Not only smoke came out of it. There came also children's voices, for
so safe did the boys feel in their hiding-place that they were gaily
chattering. The pirates listened grimly, and then replaced the mushroom.
They looked around them and noted the holes in the seven trees
Smee whispered, fidgeting
with Johnny Corkscrew.

Hook nodded. He stood for a long time lost in thought, and at last a
curdling smile lit up his swarthy face. Smee had been waiting for it
he cried eagerly
Hook replied slowly through his teeth
He burst into laughter, not hollow laughter now,
but honest laughter
Smee had listened with growing admiration
he cried, and in
their exultation they danced and sang
They began the verse, but they never finished it, for another sound
broke in and stilled them. There was at first such a tiny sound that a
leaf might have fallen on it and smothered it, but as it came nearer it
was more distinct.

Tick tick tick tick!

Hook stood shuddering, one foot in the air
he gasped, and bounded away, followed by his bo'sun.

It was indeed the crocodile. It had passed the redskins, who were now on
the trail of the other pirates. It oozed on after Hook.

Once more the boys emerged into the open; but the dangers of the night
were not yet over, for presently Nibs rushed breathless into their
midst, pursued by a pack of wolves. The tongues of the pursuers were
hanging out; the baying of them was horrible
cried Nibs, falling on the ground
It was a high compliment to Peter that at that dire moment their
thoughts turned to him
they cried simultaneously.

Almost in the same breath they cried
And then
It is quite the most successful way of defying wolves, and as one boy
they bent and looked through their legs. The next moment is the long
one, but victory came quickly, for as the boys advanced upon them in the
terrible attitude, the wolves dropped their tails and fled.

Now Nibs rose from the ground, and the others thought that his staring
eyes still saw the wolves. But it was not wolves he saw
he cried, as they gathered round him
eagerly
Nibs said, awestruck
said Slightly instantly
cried Curly, pointing to Wendy in the heavens.

Wendy was now almost overhead, and they could hear her plaintive cry.
But more distinct came the shrill voice of Tinker Bell. The jealous
fairy had now cast off all disguise of friendship, and was darting
at her victim from every direction, pinching savagely each time she
touched
cried the wondering boys.

Tink's reply rang out
It was not in their nature to question when Peter ordered
cried the simple boys
All but Tootles popped down their trees. He had a bow and arrow with
him, and Tink noted it, and rubbed her little hands
she screamed
Tootles excitedly fitted the arrow to his bow
he shouted, and then he fired, and Wendy fluttered to the ground with an
arrow in her breast
Foolish Tootles was standing like a conqueror over Wendy's body when the
other boys sprang, armed, from their trees
he cried proudly
Overhead Tinker Bell shouted
and darted into hiding. The
others did not hear her. They had crowded round Wendy, and as they
looked a terrible silence fell upon the wood. If Wendy's heart had been
beating they would all have heard it.

Slightly was the first to speak
he said in a scared
voice
said Tootles, and fell a-trembling
Nibs said hoarsely.

They all whipped off their caps
Curly said
He threw
himself sorrowfully on the ground
said one of the twins
They were sorry for him, but sorrier for themselves, and when he took a
step nearer them they turned from him.

Tootles' face was very white, but there was a dignity about him now that
had never been there before
he said, reflecting
He moved slowly away
they called in pity
he answered, shaking
It was at this tragic moment that they heard a sound which made the
heart of every one of them rise to his mouth. They heard Peter crow
they cried, for it was always thus that he signalled his
return
they whispered, and gathered hastily around Wendy. But
Tootles stood aloof.

Again came that ringing crow, and Peter dropped in front of them
he cried, and mechanically they saluted, and then
again was silence.

He frowned
he said hotly
They opened their mouths, but the cheers would not come. He overlooked
it in his haste to tell the glorious tidings
he cried
Still no sound, except a little thud from Tootles as he dropped on his
knees
asked Peter, becoming troubled
one voice said, and another said
Tootles rose
he said quietly
and
when the others would still have hidden her he said
So they all stood back, and let him see, and after he had looked for a
little time he did not know what to do next
he said uncomfortably
He thought of hopping off in a comic sort of way till he was out of
sight of her, and then never going near the spot any more. They would
all have been glad to follow if he had done this.

But there was the arrow. He took it from her heart and faced his band
he demanded sternly
said Tootles on his knees
Peter said, and he raised the arrow to use it as a
dagger.

Tootles did not flinch. He bared his breast
he said
firmly
Twice did Peter raise the arrow, and twice did his hand fall
he said with awe
All looked at him in wonder, save Nibs, who fortunately looked at Wendy
he cried
Wonderful to relate &lsqb;tell&rsqb;, Wendy had raised her arm. Nibs bent over
her and listened reverently
he
whispered
Peter said briefly.

Slightly cried instantly
Then Peter knelt beside her and found his button. You remember she had
put it on a chain that she wore round her neck
he said
Slightly interposed quickly
Peter did not hear him. He was begging Wendy to get better quickly, so
that he could show her the mermaids. Of course she could not answer yet,
being still in a frightful faint; but from overhead came a wailing note
said Curly
Then they had to tell Peter of Tink's crime, and almost never had they
seen him look so stern
he cried
She flew on to his shoulder and pleaded, but he brushed her off. Not
until Wendy again raised her arm did he relent sufficiently to say
Do you think Tinker Bell was grateful to Wendy for raising her arm? Oh
dear no, never wanted to pinch her so much. Fairies indeed are strange,
and Peter, who understood them best, often cuffed &lsqb;slapped&rsqb; them.

But what to do with Wendy in her present delicate state of health
Curly suggested
said Slightly
Peter said
said Slightly
Tootles said
Slightly admitted
cried Peter
They were all delighted
he ordered them
In a moment they were as busy as tailors the night before a wedding.
They skurried this way and that, down for bedding, up for firewood, and
while they were at it, who should appear but John and Michael. As they
dragged along the ground they fell asleep standing, stopped, woke up,
moved another step and slept again
Michael would cry
And then John would rub his eyes and mutter
You may be sure they were very relieved to find Peter
they said
replied Peter amicably, though he had quite forgotten them.
He was very busy at the moment measuring Wendy with his feet to see
how large a house she would need. Of course he meant to leave room for
chairs and a table. John and Michael watched him
they asked
Michael proposed
but as he said it some of the other boys rushed on carrying
branches for the building of the house
he cried
said Peter in his most captainy voice
exclaimed John
said Curly
John said, aghast
explained Curly
said Peter
The astounded brothers were dragged away to hack and hew and carry
Peter ordered
said Slightly
Peter thought of everything
he cried
said Slightly at once, and disappeared, scratching his head.
But he knew Peter must be obeyed, and he returned in a moment, wearing
John's hat and looking solemn
said Peter, going to him
The difference between him and the other boys at such a time was that
they knew it was make-believe, while to him make-believe and true were
exactly the same thing. This sometimes troubled them, as when they had
to make-believe that they had had their dinners.

If they broke down in their make-believe he rapped them on the knuckles
Slightly anxiously replied, who had chapped
knuckles
Peter explained
She was lying at their feet, but Slightly had the sense not to see her
he said
said Slightly, and he
made-believe to do it, while Peter waited. It was an anxious moment when
the glass thing was withdrawn
inquired Peter
said Slightly
Peter cried
Slightly said
but after he had returned the hat
to John he blew big breaths, which was his habit on escaping from a
difficulty.

In the meantime the wood had been alive with the sound of axes; almost
everything needed for a cosy dwelling already lay at Wendy's feet
said one
shouted another
cried a third, looking respectfully into it
said Peter
Immediately, without opening her eyes, Wendy began to sing
They gurgled with joy at this, for by the greatest good luck the
branches they had brought were sticky with red sap, and all the ground
was carpeted with moss. As they rattled up the little house they broke
into song themselves
To this she answered greedily
With a blow of their fists they made windows, and large yellow leaves
were the blinds. But roses
cried Peter sternly.

Quickly they made-believe to grow the loveliest roses up the walls.

Babies?

To prevent Peter ordering babies they hurried into song again
Peter, seeing this to be a good idea, at once pretended that it was his
own. The house was quite beautiful, and no doubt Wendy was very cosy
within, though, of course, they could no longer see her. Peter strode
up and down, ordering finishing touches. Nothing escaped his eagle eyes.
Just when it seemed absolutely finished
he said.

They were very ashamed, but Tootles gave the sole of his shoe, and it
made an excellent knocker.

Absolutely finished now, they thought.

Not of bit of it
Peter said
said John importantly. This gave
Peter an idea. He snatched the hat off John's head, knocked out the
bottom &lsqb;top&rsqb;, and put the hat on the roof. The little house was so
pleased to have such a capital chimney that, as if to say thank you,
smoke immediately began to come out of the hat.

Now really and truly it was finished. Nothing remained to do but to
knock
Peter warned them
He was glad no one asked him what first impressions are; they were all
too busy looking their best.

He knocked politely, and now the wood was as still as the children, not
a sound to be heard except from Tinker Bell, who was watching from a
branch and openly sneering.

What the boys were wondering was, would any one answer the knock? If a
lady, what would she be like?

The door opened and a lady came out. It was Wendy. They all whipped off
their hats.

She looked properly surprised, and this was just how they had hoped she
would look
she said.

Of course Slightly was the first to get his word in
he
said rapidly
cried Nibs
Wendy said, and they were the very words they
had hoped she would say
cried the twins.

Then all went on their knees, and holding out their arms cried
Wendy said, all shining
said Peter, as if he were the only person present
who knew all about it, though he was really the one who knew least
Wendy said
they all cried
she said
In they went; I don't know how there was room for them, but you can
squeeze very tight in the Neverland. And that was the first of the many
joyous evenings they had with Wendy. By and by she tucked them up in the
great bed in the home under the trees, but she herself slept that night
in the little house, and Peter kept watch outside with drawn sword, for
the pirates could be heard carousing far away and the wolves were on the
prowl. The little house looked so cosy and safe in the darkness, with
a bright light showing through its blinds, and the chimney smoking
beautifully, and Peter standing on guard. After a time he fell asleep,
and some unsteady fairies had to climb over him on their way home from
an orgy. Any of the other boys obstructing the fairy path at night they
would have mischiefed, but they just tweaked Peter's nose and passed on
One of the first things Peter did next day was to measure Wendy and John
and Michael for hollow trees. Hook, you remember, had sneered at the
boys for thinking they needed a tree apiece, but this was ignorance, for
unless your tree fitted you it was difficult to go up and down, and no
two of the boys were quite the same size. Once you fitted, you drew in
&lsqb;let out&rsqb; your breath at the top, and down you went at exactly the
right speed, while to ascend you drew in and let out alternately, and so
wriggled up. Of course, when you have mastered the action you are able
to do these things without thinking of them, and nothing can be more
graceful.

But you simply must fit, and Peter measures you for your tree as
carefully as for a suit of clothes: the only difference being that the
clothes are made to fit you, while you have to be made to fit the tree.
Usually it is done quite easily, as by your wearing too many garments
or too few, but if you are bumpy in awkward places or the only available
tree is an odd shape, Peter does some things to you, and after that you
fit. Once you fit, great care must be taken to go on fitting, and this,
as Wendy was to discover to her delight, keeps a whole family in perfect
condition.

Wendy and Michael fitted their trees at the first try, but John had to
be altered a little.

After a few days' practice they could go up and down as gaily as buckets
in a well. And how ardently they grew to love their home under the
ground; especially Wendy. It consisted of one large room, as all houses
should do, with a floor in which you could dig &lsqb;for worms&rsqb; if you wanted
to go fishing, and in this floor grew stout mushrooms of a charming
colour, which were used as stools. A Never tree tried hard to grow in
the centre of the room, but every morning they sawed the trunk through,
level with the floor. By tea-time it was always about two feet high, and
then they put a door on top of it, the whole thus becoming a table;
as soon as they cleared away, they sawed off the trunk again, and thus
there was more room to play. There was an enormous fireplace which was
in almost any part of the room where you cared to light it, and across
this Wendy stretched strings, made of fibre, from which she suspended
her washing. The bed was tilted against the wall by day, and let down at
6:30, when it filled nearly half the room; and all the boys slept in it,
except Michael, lying like sardines in a tin. There was a strict rule
against turning round until one gave the signal, when all turned at
once. Michael should have used it also, but Wendy would have &lsqb;desired&rsqb;
a baby, and he was the littlest, and you know what women are, and the
short and long of it is that he was hung up in a basket.

It was rough and simple, and not unlike what baby bears would have made
of an underground house in the same circumstances. But there was one
recess in the wall, no larger than a bird-cage, which was the private
apartment of Tinker Bell. It could be shut off from the rest of
the house by a tiny curtain, which Tink, who was most fastidious
&lsqb;particular&rsqb;, always kept drawn when dressing or undressing. No woman,
however large, could have had a more exquisite boudoir &lsqb;dressing room&rsqb;
and bed-chamber combined. The couch, as she always called it, was
a genuine Queen Mab, with club legs; and she varied the bedspreads
according to what fruit-blossom was in season. Her mirror was a
Puss-in-Boots, of which there are now only three, unchipped, known to
fairy dealers; the washstand was Pie-crust and reversible, the chest
of drawers an authentic Charming the Sixth, and the carpet and rugs the
best (the early) period of Margery and Robin. There was a chandelier
from Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing, but of course she lit the
residence herself. Tink was very contemptuous of the rest of the house,
as indeed was perhaps inevitable, and her chamber, though beautiful,
looked rather conceited, having the appearance of a nose permanently
turned up.

I suppose it was all especially entrancing to Wendy, because those
rampagious boys of hers gave her so much to do. Really there were whole
weeks when, except perhaps with a stocking in the evening, she was never
above ground. The cooking, I can tell you, kept her nose to the pot, and
even if there was nothing in it, even if there was no pot, she had to
keep watching that it came aboil just the same. You never exactly
knew whether there would be a real meal or just a make-believe, it all
depended upon Peter's whim: he could eat, really eat, if it was part of
a game, but he could not stodge &lsqb;cram down the food&rsqb; just to feel
stodgy &lsqb;stuffed with food&rsqb;, which is what most children like better than
anything else; the next best thing being to talk about it. Make-believe
was so real to him that during a meal of it you could see him getting
rounder. Of course it was trying, but you simply had to follow his lead,
and if you could prove to him that you were getting loose for your tree
he let you stodge.

Wendy's favourite time for sewing and darning was after they had all
gone to bed. Then, as she expressed it, she had a breathing time for
herself; and she occupied it in making new things for them, and putting
double pieces on the knees, for they were all most frightfully hard on
their knees.

When she sat down to a basketful of their stockings, every heel with a
hole in it, she would fling up her arms and exclaim
Her face beamed when she exclaimed this.

You remember about her pet wolf. Well, it very soon discovered that she
had come to the island and it found her out, and they just ran into each
other's arms. After that it followed her about everywhere.

As time wore on did she think much about the beloved parents she had
left behind her? This is a difficult question, because it is quite
impossible to say how time does wear on in the Neverland, where it is
calculated by moons and suns, and there are ever so many more of them
than on the mainland. But I am afraid that Wendy did not really worry
about her father and mother; she was absolutely confident that they
would always keep the window open for her to fly back by, and this gave
her complete ease of mind. What did disturb her at times was that John
remembered his parents vaguely only, as people he had once known, while
Michael was quite willing to believe that she was really his mother.
These things scared her a little, and nobly anxious to do her duty, she
tried to fix the old life in their minds by setting them examination
papers on it, as like as possible to the ones she used to do at school.
The other boys thought this awfully interesting, and insisted on
joining, and they made slates for themselves, and sat round the table,
writing and thinking hard about the questions she had written on another
slate and passed round. They were the most ordinary questions
Or
They were just everyday questions like these, and when you could not
answer them you were told to make a cross; and it was really dreadful
what a number of crosses even John made. Of course the only boy who
replied to every question was Slightly, and no one could have been more
hopeful of coming out first, but his answers were perfectly ridiculous,
and he really came out last: a melancholy thing.

Peter did not compete. For one thing he despised all mothers except
Wendy, and for another he was the only boy on the island who could
neither write nor spell; not the smallest word. He was above all that
sort of thing.

By the way, the questions were all written in the past tense. What
was the colour of Mother's eyes, and so on. Wendy, you see, had been
forgetting, too.

Adventures, of course, as we shall see, were of daily occurrence; but
about this time Peter invented, with Wendy's help, a new game that
fascinated him enormously, until he suddenly had no more interest in it,
which, as you have been told, was what always happened with his games.
It consisted in pretending not to have adventures, in doing the sort of
thing John and Michael had been doing all their lives, sitting on stools
flinging balls in the air, pushing each other, going out for walks and
coming back without having killed so much as a grizzly. To see Peter
doing nothing on a stool was a great sight; he could not help looking
solemn at such times, to sit still seemed to him such a comic thing to
do. He boasted that he had gone walking for the good of his health. For
several suns these were the most novel of all adventures to him; and
John and Michael had to pretend to be delighted also; otherwise he would
have treated them severely.

He often went out alone, and when he came back you were never absolutely
certain whether he had had an adventure or not. He might have forgotten
it so completely that he said nothing about it; and then when you went
out you found the body; and, on the other hand, he might say a great
deal about it, and yet you could not find the body. Sometimes he came
home with his head bandaged, and then Wendy cooed over him and bathed
it in lukewarm water, while he told a dazzling tale. But she was never
quite sure, you know. There were, however, many adventures which she
knew to be true because she was in them herself, and there were still
more that were at least partly true, for the other boys were in them and
said they were wholly true. To describe them all would require a book as
large as an English-Latin, Latin-English Dictionary, and the most we can
do is to give one as a specimen of an average hour on the island. The
difficulty is which one to choose. Should we take the brush with the
redskins at Slightly Gulch? It was a sanguinary affair, and
especially interesting as showing one of Peter's peculiarities, which
was that in the middle of a fight he would suddenly change sides. At the
Gulch, when victory was still in the balance, sometimes leaning this way
and sometimes that, he called out
And Tootles answered
and
Nibs said
and so on; and they were all
redskins; and of course this would have ended the fight had not the real
redskins fascinated by Peter's methods, agreed to be lost boys for that
once, and so at it they all went again, more fiercely than ever.

The extraordinary upshot of this adventure was -- but we have not decided
yet that this is the adventure we are to narrate. Perhaps a better one
would be the night attack by the redskins on the house under the ground,
when several of them stuck in the hollow trees and had to be pulled out
like corks. Or we might tell how Peter saved Tiger Lily's life in the
Mermaids' Lagoon, and so made her his ally.

Or we could tell of that cake the pirates cooked so that the boys might
eat it and perish; and how they placed it in one cunning spot after
another; but always Wendy snatched it from the hands of her children, so
that in time it lost its succulence, and became as hard as a stone, and
was used as a missile, and Hook fell over it in the dark.

Or suppose we tell of the birds that were Peter's friends, particularly
of the Never bird that built in a tree overhanging the lagoon, and how
the nest fell into the water, and still the bird sat on her eggs, and
Peter gave orders that she was not to be disturbed. That is a pretty
story, and the end shows how grateful a bird can be; but if we tell
it we must also tell the whole adventure of the lagoon, which would
of course be telling two adventures rather than just one. A shorter
adventure, and quite as exciting, was Tinker Bell's attempt, with the
help of some street fairies, to have the sleeping Wendy conveyed on a
great floating leaf to the mainland. Fortunately the leaf gave way and
Wendy woke, thinking it was bath-time, and swam back. Or again, we might
choose Peter's defiance of the lions, when he drew a circle round him
on the ground with an arrow and dared them to cross it; and though he
waited for hours, with the other boys and Wendy looking on breathlessly
from trees, not one of them dared to accept his challenge.

Which of these adventures shall we choose? The best way will be to toss
for it.

I have tossed, and the lagoon has won. This almost makes one wish that
the gulch or the cake or Tink's leaf had won. Of course I could do it
again, and make it best out of three; however, perhaps fairest to stick
to the lagoon
If you shut your eyes and are a lucky one, you may see at times a
shapeless pool of lovely pale colours suspended in the darkness; then
if you squeeze your eyes tighter, the pool begins to take shape, and the
colours become so vivid that with another squeeze they must go on fire.
But just before they go on fire you see the lagoon. This is the nearest
you ever get to it on the mainland, just one heavenly moment; if there
could be two moments you might see the surf and hear the mermaids
singing.

The children often spent long summer days on this lagoon, swimming or
floating most of the time, playing the mermaid games in the water,
and so forth. You must not think from this that the mermaids were on
friendly terms with them: on the contrary, it was among Wendy's lasting
regrets that all the time she was on the island she never had a civil
word from one of them. When she stole softly to the edge of the lagoon
she might see them by the score, especially on Marooners' Rock, where
they loved to bask, combing out their hair in a lazy way that quite
irritated her; or she might even swim, on tiptoe as it were, to within
a yard of them, but then they saw her and dived, probably splashing her
with their tails, not by accident, but intentionally.

They treated all the boys in the same way, except of course Peter, who
chatted with them on Marooners' Rock by the hour, and sat on their tails
when they got cheeky. He gave Wendy one of their combs.

The most haunting time at which to see them is at the turn of the moon,
when they utter strange wailing cries; but the lagoon is dangerous for
mortals then, and until the evening of which we have now to tell, Wendy
had never seen the lagoon by moonlight, less from fear, for of course
Peter would have accompanied her, than because she had strict rules
about every one being in bed by seven. She was often at the lagoon,
however, on sunny days after rain, when the mermaids come up in
extraordinary numbers to play with their bubbles. The bubbles of many
colours made in rainbow water they treat as balls, hitting them gaily
from one to another with their tails, and trying to keep them in the
rainbow till they burst. The goals are at each end of the rainbow, and
the keepers only are allowed to use their hands. Sometimes a dozen of
these games will be going on in the lagoon at a time, and it is quite a
pretty sight.

But the moment the children tried to join in they had to play by
themselves, for the mermaids immediately disappeared. Nevertheless we
have proof that they secretly watched the interlopers, and were not
above taking an idea from them; for John introduced a new way of hitting
the bubble, with the head instead of the hand, and the mermaids adopted
it. This is the one mark that John has left on the Neverland.

It must also have been rather pretty to see the children resting on a
rock for half an hour after their mid-day meal. Wendy insisted on
their doing this, and it had to be a real rest even though the meal was
make-believe. So they lay there in the sun, and their bodies glistened
in it, while she sat beside them and looked important.

It was one such day, and they were all on Marooners' Rock. The rock was
not much larger than their great bed, but of course they all knew how
not to take up much room, and they were dozing, or at least lying with
their eyes shut, and pinching occasionally when they thought Wendy was
not looking. She was very busy, stitching.

While she stitched a change came to the lagoon. Little shivers ran over
it, and the sun went away and shadows stole across the water, turning
it cold. Wendy could no longer see to thread her needle, and when she
looked up, the lagoon that had always hitherto been such a laughing
place seemed formidable and unfriendly.

It was not, she knew, that night had come, but something as dark as
night had come. No, worse than that. It had not come, but it had sent
that shiver through the sea to say that it was coming. What was it?

There crowded upon her all the stories she had been told of Marooners'
Rock, so called because evil captains put sailors on it and leave
them there to drown. They drown when the tide rises, for then it is
submerged.

Of course she should have roused the children at once; not merely
because of the unknown that was stalking toward them, but because it was
no longer good for them to sleep on a rock grown chilly. But she was
a young mother and she did not know this; she thought you simply must
stick to your rule about half an hour after the mid-day meal. So, though
fear was upon her, and she longed to hear male voices, she would not
waken them. Even when she heard the sound of muffled oars, though her
heart was in her mouth, she did not waken them. She stood over them to
let them have their sleep out. Was it not brave of Wendy?

It was well for those boys then that there was one among them who could
sniff danger even in his sleep. Peter sprang erect, as wide awake at
once as a dog, and with one warning cry he roused the others.

He stood motionless, one hand to his ear
he cried. The others came closer to him. A strange smile was
playing about his face, and Wendy saw it and shuddered. While that smile
was on his face no one dared address him; all they could do was to stand
ready to obey. The order came sharp and incisive
There was a gleam of legs, and instantly the lagoon seemed deserted.
Marooners' Rock stood alone in the forbidding waters as if it were
itself marooned.

The boat drew nearer. It was the pirate dinghy, with three figures in
her, Smee and Starkey, and the third a captive, no other than Tiger
Lily. Her hands and ankles were tied, and she knew what was to be her
fate. She was to be left on the rock to perish, an end to one of her
race more terrible than death by fire or torture, for is it not written
in the book of the tribe that there is no path through water to the
happy hunting-ground? Yet her face was impassive; she was the daughter
of a chief, she must die as a chief's daughter, it is enough.

They had caught her boarding the pirate ship with a knife in her mouth.
No watch was kept on the ship, it being Hook's boast that the wind of
his name guarded the ship for a mile around. Now her fate would help to
guard it also. One more wail would go the round in that wind by night.

In the gloom that they brought with them the two pirates did not see the
rock till they crashed into it
cried an Irish voice that was Smee's
It was the work of one brutal moment to land the beautiful girl on the
rock; she was too proud to offer a vain resistance.

Quite near the rock, but out of sight, two heads were bobbing up and
down, Peter's and Wendy's. Wendy was crying, for it was the first
tragedy she had seen. Peter had seen many tragedies, but he had
forgotten them all. He was less sorry than Wendy for Tiger Lily: it was
two against one that angered him, and he meant to save her. An easy way
would have been to wait until the pirates had gone, but he was never one
to choose the easy way.

There was almost nothing he could not do, and he now imitated the voice
of Hook
he called. It was a marvellous imitation
said the pirates, staring at each other in surprise
Starkey said, when they had looked for
him in vain
Smee called out
came the astonishing answer
cried Peter
Smee gasped
said Starkey nervously
Smee said, and he cut Tiger Lily's cords. At once like an eel
she slid between Starkey's legs into the water.

Of course Wendy was very elated over Peter's cleverness; but she knew
that he would be elated also and very likely crow and thus betray
himself, so at once her hand went out to cover his mouth. But it was
stayed even in the act, for
rang over the lagoon in Hook's
voice, and this time it was not Peter who had spoken.

Peter may have been about to crow, but his face puckered in a whistle of
surprise instead
again came the voice.

Now Wendy understood. The real Hook was also in the water.

He was swimming to the boat, and as his men showed a light to guide him
he had soon reached them. In the light of the lantern Wendy saw his hook
grip the boat's side; she saw his evil swarthy face as he rose dripping
from the water, and, quaking, she would have liked to swim away, but
Peter would not budge. He was tingling with life and also top-heavy with
conceit
he whispered to her,
and though she thought so also, she was really glad for the sake of his
reputation that no one heard him except herself.

He signed to her to listen.

The two pirates were very curious to know what had brought their captain
to them, but he sat with his head on his hook in a position of profound
melancholy
they asked timidly, but he answered with a
hollow moan
said Smee
said Starkey
said Smee.

Then at last he spoke passionately
he cried
Affrighted though she was, Wendy swelled with pride
cried Starkey
asked the ignorant Smee.

Wendy was so shocked that she exclaimed
and always
after this she felt that if you could have a pet pirate Smee would be
her one.

Peter pulled her beneath the water, for Hook had started up, crying
said Starkey, raising the lantern over the waters,
and as the pirates looked they saw a strange sight. It was the nest I
have told you of, floating on the lagoon, and the Never bird was sitting
on it
said Hook in answer to Smee's question
There was a break in his voice, as if for a moment he recalled innocent
days when -- but he brushed away this weakness with his hook.

Smee, much impressed, gazed at the bird as the nest was borne past, but
the more suspicious Starkey said
Hook winced
he said
He was roused from this dejection by Smee's eager voice
said Smee
cried Hook, and at once it took practical
shape in his great brain
Again Wendy forgot herself
she cried, and bobbed
But they could see nothing. They thought it must have been a leaf in the
wind
asked Hook
they both said
They all swore. By this time they were on the rock, and suddenly Hook
remembered Tiger Lily
he demanded abruptly.

He had a playful humour at moments, and they thought this was one of the
moments
Smee answered complacently
cried Hook
the bo'sun faltered
said Starkey
thundered Hook
His face had gone black with rage, but he saw that they
believed their words, and he was startled
he said, shaking a
little
Smee said, and they all fidgeted uncomfortably.
Hook raised his voice, but there was a quiver in it
he cried
Of course Peter should have kept quiet, but of course he did not. He
immediately answered in Hook's voice
In that supreme moment Hook did not blanch, even at the gills, but Smee
and Starkey clung to each other in terror
Hook demanded
replied the voice
Hook cried hoarsely
the voice retorted
Hook tried a more ingratiating manner
he said almost
humbly
replied the voice
Hook echoed blankly, and it was then, but not till then,
that his proud spirit broke. He saw his men draw back from him
they muttered
They were his dogs snapping at him, but, tragic figure though he had
become, he scarcely heeded them. Against such fearful evidence it was
not their belief in him that he needed, it was his own. He felt his ego
slipping from him
he whispered hoarsely to
it.

In his dark nature there was a touch of the feminine, as in all the
great pirates, and it sometimes gave him intuitions. Suddenly he tried
the guessing game
he called
Now Peter could never resist a game, and he answered blithely in his own
voice
asked Hook
This answer rang out scornfully
To Wendy's pain the answer that rang out this time was
Hook was completely puzzled
he said to
the others, wiping his damp brow.

Smee reflected
he said regretfully
crowed Peter
Of course in his pride he was carrying the game too far, and the
miscreants &lsqb;villains&rsqb; saw their chance
they answered eagerly
he cried
Pan!

In a moment Hook was himself again, and Smee and Starkey were his
faithful henchmen
Hook shouted
He leaped as he spoke, and simultaneously came the gay voice of Peter
from various parts of the lagoon
The fight was short and sharp. First to draw blood was John, who
gallantly climbed into the boat and held Starkey. There was fierce
struggle, in which the cutlass was torn from the pirate's grasp. He
wriggled overboard and John leapt after him. The dinghy drifted away.

Here and there a head bobbed up in the water, and there was a flash
of steel followed by a cry or a whoop. In the confusion some struck at
their own side. The corkscrew of Smee got Tootles in the fourth rib, but
he was himself pinked &lsqb;nicked&rsqb; in turn by Curly. Farther from the rock
Starkey was pressing Slightly and the twins hard.

Where all this time was Peter? He was seeking bigger game.

The others were all brave boys, and they must not be blamed for backing
from the pirate captain. His iron claw made a circle of dead water round
him, from which they fled like affrighted fishes.

But there was one who did not fear him: there was one prepared to enter
that circle.

Strangely, it was not in the water that they met. Hook rose to the rock
to breathe, and at the same moment Peter scaled it on the opposite
side. The rock was slippery as a ball, and they had to crawl rather than
climb. Neither knew that the other was coming. Each feeling for a grip
met the other's arm: in surprise they raised their heads; their faces
were almost touching; so they met.

Some of the greatest heroes have confessed that just before they fell to
&lsqb;began combat&rsqb; they had a sinking &lsqb;feeling in the stomach&rsqb;. Had it been
so with Peter at that moment I would admit it. After all, he was the
only man that the Sea-Cook had feared. But Peter had no sinking, he had
one feeling only, gladness; and he gnashed his pretty teeth with joy.
Quick as thought he snatched a knife from Hook's belt and was about to
drive it home, when he saw that he was higher up the rock than his foe.
It would not have been fighting fair. He gave the pirate a hand to help
him up.

It was then that Hook bit him.

Not the pain of this but its unfairness was what dazed Peter. It made
him quite helpless. He could only stare, horrified. Every child is
affected thus the first time he is treated unfairly. All he thinks he
has a right to when he comes to you to be yours is fairness. After
you have been unfair to him he will love you again, but will never
afterwards be quite the same boy. No one ever gets over the first
unfairness; no one except Peter. He often met it, but he always forgot
it. I suppose that was the real difference between him and all the rest.

So when he met it now it was like the first time; and he could just
stare, helpless. Twice the iron hand clawed him.

A few moments afterwards the other boys saw Hook in the water striking
wildly for the ship; no elation on the pestilent face now, only white
fear, for the crocodile was in dogged pursuit of him. On ordinary
occasions the boys would have swum alongside cheering; but now they were
uneasy, for they had lost both Peter and Wendy, and were scouring the
lagoon for them, calling them by name. They found the dinghy and went
home in it, shouting "Peter, Wendy" as they went, but no answer came
save mocking laughter from the mermaids
the boys concluded. They were not very anxious, because they
had such faith in Peter. They chuckled, boylike, because they would be
late for bed; and it was all mother Wendy's fault!

When their voices died away there came cold silence over the lagoon, and
then a feeble cry
Two small figures were beating against the rock; the girl had fainted
and lay on the boy's arm. With a last effort Peter pulled her up the
rock and then lay down beside her. Even as he also fainted he saw that
the water was rising. He knew that they would soon be drowned, but he
could do no more.

As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wendy by the feet, and began
pulling her softly into the water. Peter, feeling her slip from him,
woke with a start, and was just in time to draw her back. But he had to
tell her the truth
he said
She did not understand even now
she said, almost brightly
he answered faintly
He had to tell her
She had to admit that she was too tired.

He moaned
she asked, anxious about him at once
They put their hands over their eyes to shut out the sight. They thought
they would soon be no more. As they sat thus something brushed against
Peter as light as a kiss, and stayed there, as if saying timidly
It was the tail of a kite, which Michael had made some days before. It
had torn itself out of his hand and floated away
Peter said without interest, but next moment he had
seized the tail, and was pulling the kite toward him
he cried
Wendy said bravely
Already he had tied the tail round her. She
clung to him; she refused to go without him; but with a
he pushed her from the rock; and in a few minutes she was borne
out of his sight. Peter was alone on the lagoon.

The rock was very small now; soon it would be submerged. Pale rays of
light tiptoed across the waters; and by and by there was to be heard a
sound at once the most musical and the most melancholy in the world: the
mermaids calling to the moon.

Peter was not quite like other boys; but he was afraid at last. A
tremour ran through him, like a shudder passing over the sea; but on
the sea one shudder follows another till there are hundreds of them, and
Peter felt just the one. Next moment he was standing erect on the rock
again, with that smile on his face and a drum beating within him. It was
saying
The last sound Peter heard before he was quite alone were the mermaids
retiring one by one to their bedchambers under the sea. He was too far
away to hear their doors shut; but every door in the coral caves where
they live rings a tiny bell when it opens or closes (as in all the
nicest houses on the mainland), and he heard the bells.

Steadily the waters rose till they were nibbling at his feet; and to
pass the time until they made their final gulp, he watched the only
thing on the lagoon. He thought it was a piece of floating paper,
perhaps part of the kite, and wondered idly how long it would take to
drift ashore.

Presently he noticed as an odd thing that it was undoubtedly out upon
the lagoon with some definite purpose, for it was fighting the tide,
and sometimes winning; and when it won, Peter, always sympathetic to
the weaker side, could not help clapping; it was such a gallant piece of
paper.

It was not really a piece of paper; it was the Never bird, making
desperate efforts to reach Peter on the nest. By working her wings, in a
way she had learned since the nest fell into the water, she was able to
some extent to guide her strange craft, but by the time Peter recognised
her she was very exhausted. She had come to save him, to give him her
nest, though there were eggs in it. I rather wonder at the bird, for
though he had been nice to her, he had also sometimes tormented her. I
can suppose only that, like Mrs. Darling and the rest of them, she was
melted because he had all his first teeth.

She called out to him what she had come for, and he called out to her
what she was doing there; but of course neither of them understood
the other's language. In fanciful stories people can talk to the birds
freely, and I wish for the moment I could pretend that this were such a
story, and say that Peter replied intelligently to the Never bird; but
truth is best, and I want to tell you only what really happened. Well,
not only could they not understand each other, but they forgot their
manners
the bird called, speaking as
slowly and distinctly as possible
Peter answered
the bird said, and repeated it all over.

Then Peter tried slow and distinct
and so on.

The Never bird became irritated; they have very short tempers
she screamed
Peter felt that she was calling him names, and at a venture he retorted
hotly
Then rather curiously they both snapped out the same remark
Nevertheless the bird was determined to save him if she could, and by
one last mighty effort she propelled the nest against the rock. Then up
she flew; deserting her eggs, so as to make her meaning clear.

Then at last he understood, and clutched the nest and waved his thanks
to the bird as she fluttered overhead. It was not to receive his thanks,
however, that she hung there in the sky; it was not even to watch him
get into the nest; it was to see what he did with her eggs.

There were two large white eggs, and Peter lifted them up and reflected.
The bird covered her face with her wings, so as not to see the last of
them; but she could not help peeping between the feathers.

I forget whether I have told you that there was a stave on the rock,
driven into it by some buccaneers of long ago to mark the site of buried
treasure. The children had discovered the glittering hoard, and when in
a mischievous mood used to fling showers of moidores, diamonds, pearls
and pieces of eight to the gulls, who pounced upon them for food, and
then flew away, raging at the scurvy trick that had been played upon
them. The stave was still there, and on it Starkey had hung his hat, a
deep tarpaulin, watertight, with a broad brim. Peter put the eggs into
this hat and set it on the lagoon. It floated beautifully.

The Never bird saw at once what he was up to, and screamed her
admiration of him; and, alas, Peter crowed his agreement with her. Then
he got into the nest, reared the stave in it as a mast, and hung up his
shirt for a sail. At the same moment the bird fluttered down upon the
hat and once more sat snugly on her eggs. She drifted in one direction,
and he was borne off in another, both cheering.

Of course when Peter landed he beached his barque &lsqb;small ship, actually
the Never Bird's nest in this particular case in point&rsqb; in a place where
the bird would easily find it; but the hat was such a great success that
she abandoned the nest. It drifted about till it went to pieces, and
often Starkey came to the shore of the lagoon, and with many bitter
feelings watched the bird sitting on his hat. As we shall not see her
again, it may be worth mentioning here that all Never birds now build
in that shape of nest, with a broad brim on which the youngsters take an
airing.

Great were the rejoicings when Peter reached the home under the ground
almost as soon as Wendy, who had been carried hither and thither by
the kite. Every boy had adventures to tell; but perhaps the biggest
adventure of all was that they were several hours late for bed. This so
inflated them that they did various dodgy things to get staying up still
longer, such as demanding bandages; but Wendy, though glorying in having
them all home again safe and sound, was scandalised by the lateness of
the hour, and cried
in a voice that had to be obeyed.
Next day, however, she was awfully tender, and gave out bandages to
every one, and they played till bed-time at limping about and carrying
their arms in slings
One important result of the brush &lsqb;with the pirates&rsqb; on the lagoon was
that it made the redskins their friends. Peter had saved Tiger Lily from
a dreadful fate, and now there was nothing she and her braves would not
do for him. All night they sat above, keeping watch over the home under
the ground and awaiting the big attack by the pirates which obviously
could not be much longer delayed. Even by day they hung about, smoking
the pipe of peace, and looking almost as if they wanted tit-bits to eat.

They called Peter the Great White Father, prostrating themselves &lsqb;lying
down&rsqb; before him; and he liked this tremendously, so that it was not
really good for him
he would say to them in a very lordly manner,
as they grovelled at his feet
that lovely creature would reply
She was far too pretty to cringe in this way, but Peter thought it his
due, and he would answer condescendingly
Always when he said
it meant that they must now
shut up, and they accepted it humbly in that spirit; but they were by
no means so respectful to the other boys, whom they looked upon as just
ordinary braves. They said
to them, and things like that; and
what annoyed the boys was that Peter seemed to think this all right.

Secretly Wendy sympathised with them a little, but she was far too loyal
a housewife to listen to any complaints against father
she always said, whatever her private opinion must be. Her
private opinion was that the redskins should not call her a squaw.

We have now reached the evening that was to be known among them as the
Night of Nights, because of its adventures and their upshot. The day, as
if quietly gathering its forces, had been almost uneventful, and now the
redskins in their blankets were at their posts above, while, below, the
children were having their evening meal; all except Peter, who had gone
out to get the time. The way you got the time on the island was to find
the crocodile, and then stay near him till the clock struck.

The meal happened to be a make-believe tea, and they sat around the
board, guzzling in their greed; and really, what with their chatter and
recriminations, the noise, as Wendy said, was positively deafening.
To be sure, she did not mind noise, but she simply would not have them
grabbing things, and then excusing themselves by saying that Tootles had
pushed their elbow. There was a fixed rule that they must never hit back
at meals, but should refer the matter of dispute to Wendy by raising
the right arm politely and saying
but what
usually happened was that they forgot to do this or did it too much
cried Wendy when for the twentieth time she had told them
that they were not all to speak at once
Slightly said, after looking into an imaginary
mug
Nibs interposed.

This was telling, and Slightly seized his chance
he cried promptly.

John, however, had held up his hand first
Wendy was scandalised
John answered
This was grumbling
cried the twins.

Tootles held up his hand. He was so much the humblest of them, indeed he
was the only humble one, that Wendy was specially gentle with him
Tootles said diffidently &lsqb;bashfully or timidly
Once Tootles began, which was not very often, he had a silly way of
going on
he said heavily
Michael rapped out. He was already in his basket
Tootles said, getting heavier and heavier and
heavier
replied the twins
said Tootles
they all replied.

Then at last he stopped
he said.

The hateful telling broke out again
cried Wendy
She told them to clear away, and sat down to her work-basket, a heavy
load of stockings and every knee with a hole in it as usual
remonstrated &lsqb;scolded&rsqb; Michael
she said almost tartly
While she sewed they played around her; such a group of happy faces
and dancing limbs lit up by that romantic fire. It had become a very
familiar scene, this, in the home under the ground, but we are looking
on it for the last time.

There was a step above, and Wendy, you may be sure, was the first to
recognize it
Above, the redskins crouched before Peter
And then, as so often before, the gay children dragged him from his
tree. As so often before, but never again.

He had brought nuts for the boys as well as the correct time for Wendy
Wendy simpered &lsqb;exaggerated a
smile
said Peter, hanging up his gun
Michael whispered to
Curly
said Curly instantly.

The first twin came to Peter
said Peter, who was in high good humour
Peter was really the best dancer among them, but he pretended to be
scandalised
cried Wendy
Slightly insinuated.

It was not really Saturday night, at least it may have been, for
they had long lost count of the days; but always if they wanted to do
anything special they said this was Saturday night, and then they did
it
Wendy said, relenting
So they were told they could dance, but they must put on their nighties
first
Peter said aside to Wendy, warming himself by the fire
and looking down at her as she sat turning a heel
Wendy said, frightfully gratified
She went to him and put her hand on his shoulder
she said
Certainly he did not want a change, but he looked at her uncomfortably,
blinking, you know, like one not sure whether he was awake or asleep
he said, a little scared
Wendy said primly &lsqb;formally and properly
he continued apologetically
he asked anxiously
she replied; and she distinctly heard his
sigh of relief
she asked, trying to speak firmly
she said, and went and sat by herself at the extreme end
of the room
he said, frankly puzzled
Wendy replied with frightful emphasis. Now we
know why she was prejudiced against the redskins
Peter said, a little nettled
Wendy retorted scornfully
Here Tink, who was in her bedroom, eavesdropping, squeaked out something
impudent
Peter interpreted.

He had a sudden idea
cried Tinker Bell in a passion.

She had said it so often that Wendy needed no translation
Wendy snapped. Fancy Wendy snapping! But she
had been much tried, and she little knew what was to happen before the
night was out. If she had known she would not have snapped.

None of them knew. Perhaps it was best not to know. Their ignorance
gave them one more glad hour; and as it was to be their last hour on the
island, let us rejoice that there were sixty glad minutes in it. They
sang and danced in their night-gowns. Such a deliciously creepy song
it was, in which they pretended to be frightened at their own shadows,
little witting that so soon shadows would close in upon them, from whom
they would shrink in real fear. So uproariously gay was the dance, and
how they buffeted each other on the bed and out of it! It was a pillow
fight rather than a dance, and when it was finished, the pillows
insisted on one bout more, like partners who know that they may never
meet again. The stories they told, before it was time for Wendy's
good-night story! Even Slightly tried to tell a story that night, but
the beginning was so fearfully dull that it appalled not only the others
but himself, and he said gloomily
And then at last they all got into bed for Wendy's story, the story they
loved best, the story Peter hated. Usually when she began to tell this
story he left the room or put his hands over his ears; and possibly if
he had done either of those things this time they might all still be on
the island. But to-night he remained on his stool; and we shall see what
happened
said Wendy, settling down to her story, with Michael at
her feet and seven boys in the bed
Curly said
said Nibs
their mother admonished &lsqb;cautioned&rsqb; them
cried the first twin
said Tootles
sighed Wendy
Peter called out, determined that she should
have fair play, however beastly a story it might be in his opinion
Wendy continued
John said, to annoy the others
said Michael rather doubtfully
explained Wendy
cried Nibs, inspired
said Tootles, who knew the story by heart
said John
sighed Wendy
said Nibs
Wendy continued
Curly broke in excitedly
cried Tootles
they all moaned, though they were not really considering the
feelings of the unhappy parents one jot
the first twin said cheerfully
said the second twin
Wendy told them
triumphantly
She had now come to the part
that Peter hated
said Tootles, hitting Nibs with a pillow
said Nibs, hitting back
Wendy said complacently
said Wendy, bracing herself up for her finest effort
and they all gave themselves the twist
that makes peeps into the future easier
cried Nibs, every bit as excited as if he didn't
know
That was the story, and they were as pleased with it as the fair
narrator herself. Everything just as it should be, you see. Off we skip
like the most heartless things in the world, which is what children are,
but so attractive; and we have an entirely selfish time, and then when
we have need of special attention we nobly return for it, confident that
we shall be rewarded instead of smacked.

So great indeed was their faith in a mother's love that they felt they
could afford to be callous for a bit longer.

But there was one there who knew better, and when Wendy finished he
uttered a hollow groan
she cried, running to him, thinking he was ill. She
felt him solicitously, lower down than his chest
Peter replied darkly
They all gathered round him in affright, so alarming was his agitation;
and with a fine candour he told them what he had hitherto concealed
he said
I am not sure that this was true, but Peter thought it was true; and it
scared them
So this was the truth about mothers. The toads!

Still it is best to be careful; and no one knows so quickly as a child
when he should give in
cried John and
Michael together
she said, clutching them
asked the lost boys bewildered. They knew in what they
called their hearts that one can get on quite well without a mother, and
that it is only the mothers who think you can't
Wendy replied resolutely, for the horrible thought had come
to her
This dread made her forgetful of what must be Peter's feelings, and
she said to him rather sharply
he replied, as coolly as if she had asked him to pass
the nuts.

Not so much as a sorry-to-lose-you between them! If she did not mind the
parting, he was going to show her, was Peter, that neither did he.

But of course he cared very much; and he was so full of wrath against
grown-ups, who, as usual, were spoiling everything, that as soon as he
got inside his tree he breathed intentionally quick short breaths at the
rate of about five to a second. He did this because there is a saying in
the Neverland that, every time you breathe, a grown-up dies; and Peter
was killing them off vindictively as fast as possible.

Then having given the necessary instructions to the redskins he returned
to the home, where an unworthy scene had been enacted in his absence.
Panic-stricken at the thought of losing Wendy the lost boys had advanced
upon her threateningly
they cried
In her extremity an instinct told her to which of them to turn
she cried
Was it not strange? She appealed to Tootles, quite the silliest one.

Grandly, however, did Tootles respond. For that one moment he dropped
his silliness and spoke with dignity
he said
He drew back his hanger; and for that instant his sun was at noon. The
others held back uneasily. Then Peter returned, and they saw at once
that they would get no support from him. He would keep no girl in the
Neverland against her will
he said, striding up and down
he continued, in the short sharp voice of one accustomed to be
obeyed
Nibs had to knock twice before he got an answer, though Tink had really
been sitting up in bed listening for some time
she cried
Nibs called
Of course Tink had been delighted to hear that Wendy was going; but
she was jolly well determined not to be her courier, and she said so in
still more offensive language. Then she pretended to be asleep again
Nibs exclaimed, aghast at such insubordination,
whereupon Peter went sternly toward the young lady's chamber
he rapped out
This made her leap to the floor
she
cried.

In the meantime the boys were gazing very forlornly at Wendy, now
equipped with John and Michael for the journey. By this time they were
dejected, not merely because they were about to lose her, but also
because they felt that she was going off to something nice to which they
had not been invited. Novelty was beckoning to them as usual.

Crediting them with a nobler feeling Wendy melted
she said
The invitation was meant specially for Peter, but each of the boys was
thinking exclusively of himself, and at once they jumped with joy
Nibs asked in the middle of
his jump
said Wendy, rapidly thinking it out
they all cried imploringly. They took it for granted
that if they went he would go also, but really they scarcely cared. Thus
children are ever ready, when novelty knocks, to desert their dearest
ones
Peter replied with a bitter smile, and immediately they
rushed to get their things
Wendy said, thinking she had put everything right
She loved to give
them medicine, and undoubtedly gave them too much. Of course it was only
water, but it was out of a bottle, and she always shook the bottle and
counted the drops, which gave it a certain medicinal quality. On this
occasion, however, she did not give Peter his draught &lsqb;portion&rsqb;, for
just as she had prepared it, she saw a look on his face that made her
heart sink
she cried, shaking
he answered, pretending indifference
To show that her departure would leave him unmoved, he skipped up and
down the room, playing gaily on his heartless pipes. She had to run
about after him, though it was rather undignified
she coaxed.

Now, if Peter had ever quite had a mother, he no longer missed her. He
could do very well without one. He had thought them out, and remembered
only their bad points
he told Wendy decisively
And so the others had to be told
Peter not coming! They gazed blankly at him, their sticks over their
backs, and on each stick a bundle. Their first thought was that if Peter
was not going he had probably changed his mind about letting them go.

But he was far too proud for that
he said
darkly
The awful cynicism of this made an uncomfortable impression, and most
of them began to look rather doubtful. After all, their faces said, were
they not noodles to want to go
cried Peter
and
he held out his hand cheerily, quite as if they must really go now, for
he had something important to do.

She had to take his hand, and there was no indication that he would
prefer a thimble
she said,
lingering over him. She was always so particular about their flannels
That seemed to be everything, and an awkward pause followed. Peter,
however, was not the kind that breaks down before other people
he called out
Tink darted up the nearest tree; but no one followed her, for it was
at this moment that the pirates made their dreadful attack upon the
redskins. Above, where all had been so still, the air was rent with
shrieks and the clash of steel. Below, there was dead silence. Mouths
opened and remained open. Wendy fell on her knees, but her arms were
extended toward Peter. All arms were extended to him, as if suddenly
blown in his direction; they were beseeching him mutely not to desert
them. As for Peter, he seized his sword, the same he thought he had
slain Barbecue with, and the lust of battle was in his eye
The pirate attack had been a complete surprise: a sure proof that the
unscrupulous Hook had conducted it improperly, for to surprise redskins
fairly is beyond the wit of the white man.

By all the unwritten laws of savage warfare it is always the redskin who
attacks, and with the wiliness of his race he does it just before the
dawn, at which time he knows the courage of the whites to be at its
lowest ebb. The white men have in the meantime made a rude stockade on
the summit of yonder undulating ground, at the foot of which a stream
runs, for it is destruction to be too far from water. There they await
the onslaught, the inexperienced ones clutching their revolvers and
treading on twigs, but the old hands sleeping tranquilly until just
before the dawn. Through the long black night the savage scouts wriggle,
snake-like, among the grass without stirring a blade. The brushwood
closes behind them, as silently as sand into which a mole has dived.
Not a sound is to be heard, save when they give vent to a wonderful
imitation of the lonely call of the coyote. The cry is answered by other
braves; and some of them do it even better than the coyotes, who are not
very good at it. So the chill hours wear on, and the long suspense is
horribly trying to the paleface who has to live through it for the first
time; but to the trained hand those ghastly calls and still ghastlier
silences are but an intimation of how the night is marching.

That this was the usual procedure was so well known to Hook that in
disregarding it he cannot be excused on the plea of ignorance.

The Piccaninnies, on their part, trusted implicitly to his honour, and
their whole action of the night stands out in marked contrast to his.
They left nothing undone that was consistent with the reputation of
their tribe. With that alertness of the senses which is at once the
marvel and despair of civilised peoples, they knew that the pirates were
on the island from the moment one of them trod on a dry stick; and in
an incredibly short space of time the coyote cries began. Every foot of
ground between the spot where Hook had landed his forces and the
home under the trees was stealthily examined by braves wearing their
mocassins with the heels in front. They found only one hillock with a
stream at its base, so that Hook had no choice; here he must establish
himself and wait for just before the dawn. Everything being thus mapped
out with almost diabolical cunning, the main body of the redskins folded
their blankets around them, and in the phlegmatic manner that is to
them, the pearl of manhood squatted above the children's home, awaiting
the cold moment when they should deal pale death.

Here dreaming, though wide-awake, of the exquisite tortures to which
they were to put him at break of day, those confiding savages were found
by the treacherous Hook. From the accounts afterwards supplied by such
of the scouts as escaped the carnage, he does not seem even to have
paused at the rising ground, though it is certain that in that grey
light he must have seen it: no thought of waiting to be attacked appears
from first to last to have visited his subtle mind; he would not even
hold off till the night was nearly spent; on he pounded with no policy
but to fall to &lsqb;get into combat&rsqb;. What could the bewildered scouts do,
masters as they were of every war-like artifice save this one, but trot
helplessly after him, exposing themselves fatally to view, while they
gave pathetic utterance to the coyote cry.

Around the brave Tiger Lily were a dozen of her stoutest warriors, and
they suddenly saw the perfidious pirates bearing down upon them. Fell
from their eyes then the film through which they had looked at
victory. No more would they torture at the stake. For them the happy
hunting-grounds was now. They knew it; but as their father's sons they
acquitted themselves. Even then they had time to gather in a phalanx
&lsqb;dense formation&rsqb; that would have been hard to break had they risen
quickly, but this they were forbidden to do by the traditions of their
race. It is written that the noble savage must never express surprise in
the presence of the white. Thus terrible as the sudden appearance of the
pirates must have been to them, they remained stationary for a moment,
not a muscle moving; as if the foe had come by invitation. Then, indeed,
the tradition gallantly upheld, they seized their weapons, and the air
was torn with the war-cry; but it was now too late.

It is no part of ours to describe what was a massacre rather than a
fight. Thus perished many of the flower of the Piccaninny tribe. Not all
unavenged did they die, for with Lean Wolf fell Alf Mason, to disturb
the Spanish Main no more, and among others who bit the dust were Geo.
Scourie, Chas. Turley, and the Alsatian Foggerty. Turley fell to the
tomahawk of the terrible Panther, who ultimately cut a way through the
pirates with Tiger Lily and a small remnant of the tribe.

To what extent Hook is to blame for his tactics on this occasion is for
the historian to decide. Had he waited on the rising ground till the
proper hour he and his men would probably have been butchered; and in
judging him it is only fair to take this into account. What he should
perhaps have done was to acquaint his opponents that he proposed to
follow a new method. On the other hand, this, as destroying the element
of surprise, would have made his strategy of no avail, so that the whole
question is beset with difficulties. One cannot at least withhold a
reluctant admiration for the wit that had conceived so bold a scheme,
and the fell &lsqb;deadly&rsqb; genius with which it was carried out.

What were his own feelings about himself at that triumphant moment?
Fain &lsqb;gladly&rsqb; would his dogs have known, as breathing heavily and wiping
their cutlasses, they gathered at a discreet distance from his hook, and
squinted through their ferret eyes at this extraordinary man. Elation
must have been in his heart, but his face did not reflect it: ever a
dark and solitary enigma, he stood aloof from his followers in spirit as
in substance.

The night's work was not yet over, for it was not the redskins he had
come out to destroy; they were but the bees to be smoked, so that he
should get at the honey. It was Pan he wanted, Pan and Wendy and their
band, but chiefly Pan.

Peter was such a small boy that one tends to wonder at the man's hatred
of him. True he had flung Hook's arm to the crocodile, but even this
and the increased insecurity of life to which it led, owing to
the crocodile's pertinacity &lsqb;persistance&rsqb;, hardly account for a
vindictiveness so relentless and malignant. The truth is that there was
a something about Peter which goaded the pirate captain to frenzy. It
was not his courage, it was not his engaging appearance, it was not --.
There is no beating about the bush, for we know quite well what it was,
and have got to tell. It was Peter's cockiness.

This had got on Hook's nerves; it made his iron claw twitch, and at
night it disturbed him like an insect. While Peter lived, the tortured
man felt that he was a lion in a cage into which a sparrow had come.

The question now was how to get down the trees, or how to get his dogs
down? He ran his greedy eyes over them, searching for the thinnest
ones. They wriggled uncomfortably, for they knew he would not scruple
&lsqb;hesitate&rsqb; to ram them down with poles.

In the meantime, what of the boys? We have seen them at the first clang
of the weapons, turned as it were into stone figures, open-mouthed,
all appealing with outstretched arms to Peter; and we return to them as
their mouths close, and their arms fall to their sides. The pandemonium
above has ceased almost as suddenly as it arose, passed like a fierce
gust of wind; but they know that in the passing it has determined their
fate.

Which side had won?

The pirates, listening avidly at the mouths of the trees, heard the
question put by every boy, and alas, they also heard Peter's answer
he said
Now Smee had found the tom-tom, and was at that moment sitting on it
he muttered, but inaudibly of
course, for strict silence had been enjoined &lsqb;urged&rsqb;. To his amazement
Hook signed him to beat the tom-tom, and slowly there came to Smee an
understanding of the dreadful wickedness of the order. Never, probably,
had this simple man admired Hook so much.

Twice Smee beat upon the instrument, and then stopped to listen
gleefully
the miscreants heard Peter cry
The doomed children answered with a cheer that was music to the black
hearts above, and almost immediately they repeated their good-byes
to Peter. This puzzled the pirates, but all their other feelings were
swallowed by a base delight that the enemy were about to come up the
trees. They smirked at each other and rubbed their hands. Rapidly and
silently Hook gave his orders: one man to each tree, and the others to
arrange themselves in a line two yards apart
The more quickly this horror is disposed of the better. The first to
emerge from his tree was Curly. He rose out of it into the arms of
Cecco, who flung him to Smee, who flung him to Starkey, who flung him to
Bill Jukes, who flung him to Noodler, and so he was tossed from one to
another till he fell at the feet of the black pirate. All the boys were
plucked from their trees in this ruthless manner; and several of them
were in the air at a time, like bales of goods flung from hand to hand.

A different treatment was accorded to Wendy, who came last. With
ironical politeness Hook raised his hat to her, and, offering her his
arm, escorted her to the spot where the others were being gagged. He
did it with such an air, he was so frightfully DISTINGUE &lsqb;imposingly
distinguished&rsqb;, that she was too fascinated to cry out. She was only a
little girl.

Perhaps it is tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Hook entranced her,
and we tell on her only because her slip led to strange results. Had she
haughtily unhanded him (and we should have loved to write it of her),
she would have been hurled through the air like the others, and then
Hook would probably not have been present at the tying of the children;
and had he not been at the tying he would not have discovered Slightly's
secret, and without the secret he could not presently have made his foul
attempt on Peter's life.

They were tied to prevent their flying away, doubled up with their knees
close to their ears; and for the trussing of them the black pirate had
cut a rope into nine equal pieces. All went well until Slightly's turn
came, when he was found to be like those irritating parcels that use up
all the string in going round and leave no tags &lsqb;ends&rsqb; with which to
tie a knot. The pirates kicked him in their rage, just as you kick the
parcel (though in fairness you should kick the string); and strange
to say it was Hook who told them to belay their violence. His lip was
curled with malicious triumph. While his dogs were merely sweating
because every time they tried to pack the unhappy lad tight in one
part he bulged out in another, Hook's master mind had gone far beneath
Slightly's surface, probing not for effects but for causes; and his
exultation showed that he had found them. Slightly, white to the gills,
knew that Hook had surprised &lsqb;discovered&rsqb; his secret, which was this,
that no boy so blown out could use a tree wherein an average man need
stick. Poor Slightly, most wretched of all the children now, for he
was in a panic about Peter, bitterly regretted what he had done. Madly
addicted to the drinking of water when he was hot, he had swelled in
consequence to his present girth, and instead of reducing himself to fit
his tree he had, unknown to the others, whittled his tree to make it fit
him.

Sufficient of this Hook guessed to persuade him that Peter at last lay
at his mercy, but no word of the dark design that now formed in the
subterranean caverns of his mind crossed his lips; he merely signed
that the captives were to be conveyed to the ship, and that he would be
alone.

How to convey them? Hunched up in their ropes they might indeed be
rolled down hill like barrels, but most of the way lay through a morass.
Again Hook's genius surmounted difficulties. He indicated that the
little house must be used as a conveyance. The children were flung into
it, four stout pirates raised it on their shoulders, the others fell in
behind, and singing the hateful pirate chorus the strange procession
set off through the wood. I don't know whether any of the children were
crying; if so, the singing drowned the sound; but as the little house
disappeared in the forest, a brave though tiny jet of smoke issued from
its chimney as if defying Hook.

Hook saw it, and it did Peter a bad service. It dried up any trickle of
pity for him that may have remained in the pirate's infuriated breast.

The first thing he did on finding himself alone in the fast falling
night was to tiptoe to Slightly's tree, and make sure that it provided
him with a passage. Then for long he remained brooding; his hat of ill
omen on the sward, so that any gentle breeze which had arisen might play
refreshingly through his hair. Dark as were his thoughts his blue eyes
were as soft as the periwinkle. Intently he listened for any sound from
the nether world, but all was as silent below as above; the house under
the ground seemed to be but one more empty tenement in the void. Was
that boy asleep, or did he stand waiting at the foot of Slightly's tree,
with his dagger in his hand?

There was no way of knowing, save by going down. Hook let his cloak slip
softly to the ground, and then biting his lips till a lewd blood stood
on them, he stepped into the tree. He was a brave man, but for a moment
he had to stop there and wipe his brow, which was dripping like a
candle. Then, silently, he let himself go into the unknown.

He arrived unmolested at the foot of the shaft, and stood still again,
biting at his breath, which had almost left him. As his eyes became
accustomed to the dim light various objects in the home under the trees
took shape; but the only one on which his greedy gaze rested, long
sought for and found at last, was the great bed. On the bed lay Peter
fast asleep.

Unaware of the tragedy being enacted above, Peter had continued, for
a little time after the children left, to play gaily on his pipes: no
doubt rather a forlorn attempt to prove to himself that he did not care.
Then he decided not to take his medicine, so as to grieve Wendy. Then he
lay down on the bed outside the coverlet, to vex her still more; for she
had always tucked them inside it, because you never know that you may
not grow chilly at the turn of the night. Then he nearly cried; but
it struck him how indignant she would be if he laughed instead; so he
laughed a haughty laugh and fell asleep in the middle of it.

Sometimes, though not often, he had dreams, and they were more painful
than the dreams of other boys. For hours he could not be separated from
these dreams, though he wailed piteously in them. They had to do, I
think, with the riddle of his existence. At such times it had been
Wendy's custom to take him out of bed and sit with him on her lap,
soothing him in dear ways of her own invention, and when he grew calmer
to put him back to bed before he quite woke up, so that he should
not know of the indignity to which she had subjected him. But on this
occasion he had fallen at once into a dreamless sleep. One arm dropped
over the edge of the bed, one leg was arched, and the unfinished part of
his laugh was stranded on his mouth, which was open, showing the little
pearls.

Thus defenceless Hook found him. He stood silent at the foot of the tree
looking across the chamber at his enemy. Did no feeling of compassion
disturb his sombre breast? The man was not wholly evil; he loved flowers
(I have been told) and sweet music (he was himself no mean performer on
the harpsichord); and, let it be frankly admitted, the idyllic nature of
the scene stirred him profoundly. Mastered by his better self he would
have returned reluctantly up the tree, but for one thing.

What stayed him was Peter's impertinent appearance as he slept. The
open mouth, the drooping arm, the arched knee: they were such a
personification of cockiness as, taken together, will never again, one
may hope, be presented to eyes so sensitive to their offensiveness. They
steeled Hook's heart. If his rage had broken him into a hundred pieces
every one of them would have disregarded the incident, and leapt at the
sleeper.

Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed, Hook stood in
darkness himself, and at the first stealthy step forward he discovered
an obstacle, the door of Slightly's tree. It did not entirely fill the
aperture, and he had been looking over it. Feeling for the catch,
he found to his fury that it was low down, beyond his reach. To his
disordered brain it seemed then that the irritating quality in Peter's
face and figure visibly increased, and he rattled the door and flung
himself against it. Was his enemy to escape him after all?

But what was that? The red in his eye had caught sight of Peter's
medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach. He fathomed what it was
straightaway, and immediately knew that the sleeper was in his power.

Lest he should be taken alive, Hook always carried about his person a
dreadful drug, blended by himself of all the death-dealing rings that
had come into his possession. These he had boiled down into a yellow
liquid quite unknown to science, which was probably the most virulent
poison in existence.

Five drops of this he now added to Peter's cup. His hand shook, but it
was in exultation rather than in shame. As he did it he avoided glancing
at the sleeper, but not lest pity should unnerve him; merely to avoid
spilling. Then one long gloating look he cast upon his victim, and
turning, wormed his way with difficulty up the tree. As he emerged
at the top he looked the very spirit of evil breaking from its hole.
Donning his hat at its most rakish angle, he wound his cloak around him,
holding one end in front as if to conceal his person from the night,
of which it was the blackest part, and muttering strangely to himself,
stole away through the trees.

Peter slept on. The light guttered &lsqb;burned to edges&rsqb; and went out,
leaving the tenement in darkness; but still he slept. It must have been
not less than ten o'clock by the crocodile, when he suddenly sat up in
his bed, wakened by he knew not what. It was a soft cautious tapping on
the door of his tree.

Soft and cautious, but in that stillness it was sinister. Peter felt for
his dagger till his hand gripped it. Then he spoke
For long there was no answer: then again the knock
No answer.

He was thrilled, and he loved being thrilled. In two strides he reached
the door. Unlike Slightly's door, it filled the aperture &lsqb;opening&rsqb;, so
that he could not see beyond it, nor could the one knocking see him
Peter cried.

Then at last the visitor spoke, in a lovely bell-like voice
It was Tink, and quickly he unbarred to her. She flew in excitedly, her
face flushed and her dress stained with mud
she cried, and offered him three guesses
he shouted, and in one ungrammatical sentence, as long as
the ribbons that conjurers &lsqb;magicians&rsqb; pull from their mouths, she told
of the capture of Wendy and the boys.

Peter's heart bobbed up and down as he listened. Wendy bound, and on the
pirate ship; she who loved everything to be just so
he cried, leaping at his weapons. As he leapt he
thought of something he could do to please her. He could take his
medicine.

His hand closed on the fatal draught
shrieked Tinker Bell, who had heard Hook mutter about his deed as
he sped through the forest
Alas, Tinker Bell could not explain this, for even she did not know the
dark secret of Slightly's tree. Nevertheless Hook's words had left no
room for doubt. The cup was poisoned
said Peter, quite believing himself
He raised the cup. No time for words now; time for deeds; and with one
of her lightning movements Tink got between his lips and the draught,
and drained it to the dregs
But she did not answer. Already she was reeling in the air
cried Peter, suddenly afraid
she told him softly
Her wings would scarcely carry her now, but in reply she alighted on his
shoulder and gave his nose a loving bite. She whispered in his ear
and then, tottering to her chamber, lay down on the bed.

His head almost filled the fourth wall of her little room as he knelt
near her in distress. Every moment her light was growing fainter; and
he knew that if it went out she would be no more. She liked his tears so
much that she put out her beautiful finger and let them run over it.

Her voice was so low that at first he could not make out what she said.
Then he made it out. She was saying that she thought she could get well
again if children believed in fairies.

Peter flung out his arms. There were no children there, and it was night
time; but he addressed all who might be dreaming of the Neverland, and
who were therefore nearer to him than you think: boys and girls in their
nighties, and naked papooses in their baskets hung from trees
he cried.

Tink sat up in bed almost briskly to listen to her fate.

She fancied she heard answers in the affirmative, and then again she
wasn't sure
she asked Peter
he shouted to them
Many clapped.

Some didn't.

A few beasts hissed.

The clapping stopped suddenly; as if countless mothers had rushed to
their nurseries to see what on earth was happening; but already Tink was
saved. First her voice grew strong, then she popped out of bed, then
she was flashing through the room more merry and impudent than ever. She
never thought of thanking those who believed, but she would have liked to
get at the ones who had hissed
The moon was riding in a cloudy heaven when Peter rose from his tree,
begirt &lsqb;belted&rsqb; with weapons and wearing little else, to set out upon
his perilous quest. It was not such a night as he would have chosen.
He had hoped to fly, keeping not far from the ground so that nothing
unwonted should escape his eyes; but in that fitful light to have
flown low would have meant trailing his shadow through the trees, thus
disturbing birds and acquainting a watchful foe that he was astir.

He regretted now that he had given the birds of the island such strange
names that they are very wild and difficult of approach.

There was no other course but to press forward in redskin fashion, at
which happily he was an adept &lsqb;expert&rsqb;. But in what direction, for he
could not be sure that the children had been taken to the ship? A
light fall of snow had obliterated all footmarks; and a deathly silence
pervaded the island, as if for a space Nature stood still in horror of
the recent carnage. He had taught the children something of the forest
lore that he had himself learned from Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell,
and knew that in their dire hour they were not likely to forget it.
Slightly, if he had an opportunity, would blaze &lsqb;cut a mark in&rsqb; the
trees, for instance, Curly would drop seeds, and Wendy would leave her
handkerchief at some important place. The morning was needed to search
for such guidance, and he could not wait. The upper world had called
him, but would give no help.

The crocodile passed him, but not another living thing, not a sound, not
a movement; and yet he knew well that sudden death might be at the next
tree, or stalking him from behind.

He swore this terrible oath
Now he crawled forward like a snake, and again erect, he darted across
a space on which the moonlight played, one finger on his lip and his
dagger at the ready. He was frightfully happy
One green light squinting over Kidd's Creek, which is near the mouth of
the pirate river, marked where the brig, the JOLLY ROGER, lay, low in
the water; a rakish-looking &lsqb;speedy-looking&rsqb; craft foul to the hull,
every beam in her detestable, like ground strewn with mangled feathers.
She was the cannibal of the seas, and scarce needed that watchful eye,
for she floated immune in the horror of her name.

She was wrapped in the blanket of night, through which no sound from her
could have reached the shore. There was little sound, and none agreeable
save the whir of the ship's sewing machine at which Smee sat, ever
industrious and obliging, the essence of the commonplace, pathetic Smee.
I know not why he was so infinitely pathetic, unless it were because
he was so pathetically unaware of it; but even strong men had to turn
hastily from looking at him, and more than once on summer evenings he
had touched the fount of Hook's tears and made it flow. Of this, as of
almost everything else, Smee was quite unconscious.

A few of the pirates leant over the bulwarks, drinking in the miasma
&lsqb;putrid mist&rsqb; of the night; others sprawled by barrels over games of
dice and cards; and the exhausted four who had carried the little house
lay prone on the deck, where even in their sleep they rolled skillfully
to this side or that out of Hook's reach, lest he should claw them
mechanically in passing.

Hook trod the deck in thought. O man unfathomable. It was his hour of
triumph. Peter had been removed for ever from his path, and all the
other boys were in the brig, about to walk the plank. It was his
grimmest deed since the days when he had brought Barbecue to heel; and
knowing as we do how vain a tabernacle is man, could we be surprised
had he now paced the deck unsteadily, bellied out by the winds of his
success?

But there was no elation in his gait, which kept pace with the action of
his sombre mind. Hook was profoundly dejected.

He was often thus when communing with himself on board ship in the
quietude of the night. It was because he was so terribly alone. This
inscrutable man never felt more alone than when surrounded by his dogs.
They were socially inferior to him.

Hook was not his true name. To reveal who he really was would even at
this date set the country in a blaze; but as those who read between the
lines must already have guessed, he had been at a famous public school;
and its traditions still clung to him like garments, with which indeed
they are largely concerned. Thus it was offensive to him even now to
board a ship in the same dress in which he grappled &lsqb;attacked&rsqb; her, and
he still adhered in his walk to the school's distinguished slouch. But
above all he retained the passion for good form.

Good form! However much he may have degenerated, he still knew that this
is all that really matters.

From far within him he heard a creaking as of rusty portals, and through
them came a stern tap-tap-tap, like hammering in the night when one
cannot sleep
was their eternal
question
he cried
the tap-tap
from his school replied
he urged
came the cutting retort.

Most disquieting reflection of all, was it not bad form to think about
good form?

His vitals were tortured by this problem. It was a claw within him
sharper than the iron one; and as it tore him, the perspiration dripped
down his tallow &lsqb;waxy&rsqb; countenance and streaked his doublet. Ofttimes he
drew his sleeve across his face, but there was no damming that trickle.

Ah, envy not Hook.

There came to him a presentiment of his early dissolution &lsqb;death&rsqb;. It
was as if Peter's terrible oath had boarded the ship. Hook felt a gloomy
desire to make his dying speech, lest presently there should be no time
for it
he cried
It was in
his darkest hours only that he referred to himself in the third person
Strange that he should think of this, which had never troubled him
before; perhaps the sewing machine brought it to his mind. For long he
muttered to himself, staring at Smee, who was hemming placidly, under
the conviction that all children feared him.

Feared him! Feared Smee! There was not a child on board the brig that
night who did not already love him. He had said horrid things to them
and hit them with the palm of his hand, because he could not hit with
his fist, but they had only clung to him the more. Michael had tried on
his spectacles.

To tell poor Smee that they thought him lovable! Hook itched to do it,
but it seemed too brutal. Instead, he revolved this mystery in his
mind: why do they find Smee lovable? He pursued the problem like the
sleuth-hound that he was. If Smee was lovable, what was it that made him
so? A terrible answer suddenly presented itself
Had the bo'sun good form without knowing it, which is the best form of
all?

He remembered that you have to prove you don't know you have it before
you are eligible for Pop &lsqb;an elite social club at Eton&rsqb;.

With a cry of rage he raised his iron hand over Smee's head; but he did
not tear. What arrested him was this reflection
The unhappy Hook was as impotent &lsqb;powerless&rsqb; as he was damp, and he fell
forward like a cut flower.

His dogs thinking him out of the way for a time, discipline instantly
relaxed; and they broke into a bacchanalian &lsqb;drunken&rsqb; dance, which
brought him to his feet at once, all traces of human weakness gone, as
if a bucket of water had passed over him
he cried
and at once
the din was hushed
The wretched prisoners were dragged from the hold, all except Wendy,
and ranged in line in front of him. For a time he seemed unconscious
of their presence. He lolled at his ease, humming, not unmelodiously,
snatches of a rude song, and fingering a pack of cards. Ever and anon
the light from his cigar gave a touch of colour to his face
he said briskly
had been Wendy's instructions in
the hold; so Tootles stepped forward politely. Tootles hated the idea
of signing under such a man, but an instinct told him that it would
be prudent to lay the responsibility on an absent person; and though a
somewhat silly boy, he knew that mothers alone are always willing to be
the buffer. All children know this about mothers, and despise them for
it, but make constant use of it.

So Tootles explained prudently
He winked at Slightly, who said mournfully
as if
he wished things had been otherwise
said the first twin, as clever as the others
roared Hook, and the spokesmen were dragged back
he said, addressing John
Now John had sometimes experienced this hankering at maths. prep.; and
he was struck by Hook's picking him out
he said diffidently
asked John
Michael demanded
Michael was naturally impressed
He wanted
John to decide, and John wanted him to decide
John inquired.

Through Hook's teeth came the answer
Perhaps John had not behaved very well so far, but he shone out now
he cried, banging the barrel in front of Hook
cried Michael
squeaked Curly.

The infuriated pirates buffeted them in the mouth; and Hook roared out
They were only boys, and they went white as they saw Jukes and Cecco
preparing the fatal plank. But they tried to look brave when Wendy was
brought up.

No words of mine can tell you how Wendy despised those pirates. To the
boys there was at least some glamour in the pirate calling; but all that
she saw was that the ship had not been tidied for years. There was not
a porthole on the grimy glass of which you might not have written with
your finger "Dirty pig"; and she had already written it on several. But
as the boys gathered round her she had no thought, of course, save for
them
said Hook, as if he spoke in syrup
Fine gentlemen though he was, the intensity of his communings had soiled
his ruff, and suddenly he knew that she was gazing at it. With a hasty
gesture he tried to hide it, but he was too late
asked Wendy, with a look of such frightful contempt
that he nearly fainted
he snarled
he called gloatingly
At this moment Wendy was grand
she said firmly
Even the pirates were awed, and Tootles cried out hysterically
But Hook had found his voice again
he shouted.

It was Smee who tied her to the mast
he whispered
But not even for Smee would she make such a promise
she said disdainfully &lsqb;scornfully&rsqb;.

It is sad to know that not a boy was looking at her as Smee tied her to
the mast; the eyes of all were on the plank: that last little walk they
were about to take. They were no longer able to hope that they would
walk it manfully, for the capacity to think had gone from them; they
could stare and shiver only.

Hook smiled on them with his teeth closed, and took a step toward Wendy.
His intention was to turn her face so that she should see the boys
walking the plank one by one. But he never reached her, he never heard
the cry of anguish he hoped to wring from her. He heard something else
instead.

It was the terrible tick-tick of the crocodile.

They all heard it -- pirates, boys, Wendy; and immediately every head was
blown in one direction; not to the water whence the sound proceeded, but
toward Hook. All knew that what was about to happen concerned him alone,
and that from being actors they were suddenly become spectators.

Very frightful was it to see the change that came over him. It was as if
he had been clipped at every joint. He fell in a little heap.

The sound came steadily nearer; and in advance of it came this ghastly
thought
Even the iron claw hung inactive; as if knowing that it was no intrinsic
part of what the attacking force wanted. Left so fearfully alone, any
other man would have lain with his eyes shut where he fell: but the
gigantic brain of Hook was still working, and under its guidance he
crawled on the knees along the deck as far from the sound as he could
go. The pirates respectfully cleared a passage for him, and it was only
when he brought up against the bulwarks that he spoke
he cried hoarsely.

They gathered round him, all eyes averted from the thing that was coming
aboard. They had no thought of fighting it. It was Fate.

Only when Hook was hidden from them did curiosity loosen the limbs of
the boys so that they could rush to the ship's side to see the crocodile
climbing it. Then they got the strangest surprise of the Night of
Nights; for it was no crocodile that was coming to their aid. It was
Peter.

He signed to them not to give vent to any cry of admiration that might
rouse suspicion. Then he went on ticking
Odd things happen to all of us on our way through life without our
noticing for a time that they have happened. Thus, to take an instance,
we suddenly discover that we have been deaf in one ear for we don't know
how long, but, say, half an hour. Now such an experience had come that
night to Peter. When last we saw him he was stealing across the island
with one finger to his lips and his dagger at the ready. He had seen the
crocodile pass by without noticing anything peculiar about it, but by
and by he remembered that it had not been ticking. At first he thought
this eerie, but soon concluded rightly that the clock had run down.

Without giving a thought to what might be the feelings of a
fellow-creature thus abruptly deprived of its closest companion, Peter
began to consider how he could turn the catastrophe to his own use;
and he decided to tick, so that wild beasts should believe he was the
crocodile and let him pass unmolested. He ticked superbly, but with one
unforeseen result. The crocodile was among those who heard the sound,
and it followed him, though whether with the purpose of regaining what
it had lost, or merely as a friend under the belief that it was again
ticking itself, will never be certainly known, for, like slaves to a
fixed idea, it was a stupid beast.

Peter reached the shore without mishap, and went straight on, his legs
encountering the water as if quite unaware that they had entered a new
element. Thus many animals pass from land to water, but no other human
of whom I know. As he swam he had but one thought
He had ticked so long that he now went on ticking without knowing
that he was doing it. Had he known he would have stopped, for to board
the brig by help of the tick, though an ingenious idea, had not occurred
to him.

On the contrary, he thought he had scaled her side as noiseless as a
mouse; and he was amazed to see the pirates cowering from him, with Hook
in their midst as abject as if he had heard the crocodile.

The crocodile! No sooner did Peter remember it than he heard the
ticking. At first he thought the sound did come from the crocodile,
and he looked behind him swiftly. Then he realised that he was doing it
himself, and in a flash he understood the situation
he thought at once, and signed to the boys not to burst into applause.

It was at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerged from the
forecastle and came along the deck. Now, reader, time what happened by
your watch. Peter struck true and deep. John clapped his hands on the
ill-fated pirate's mouth to stifle the dying groan. He fell forward.
Four boys caught him to prevent the thud. Peter gave the signal, and the
carrion was cast overboard. There was a splash, and then silence. How
long has it taken
Slightly had begun to count.)

None too soon, Peter, every inch of him on tiptoe, vanished into the
cabin; for more than one pirate was screwing up his courage to look
round. They could hear each other's distressed breathing now, which
showed them that the more terrible sound had passed
Smee said, wiping off his spectacles
Slowly Hook let his head emerge from his ruff, and listened so intently
that he could have caught the echo of the tick. There was not a sound,
and he drew himself up firmly to his full height
he cried brazenly, hating the boys more
than ever because they had seen him unbend. He broke into the villainous
ditty
To terrorize the prisoners the more, though with a certain loss of
dignity, he danced along an imaginary plank, grimacing at them as he
sang; and when he finished he cried
At that they fell on their knees
they cried so piteously that
every pirate smiled
said Hook
The cabin! Peter was in the cabin! The children gazed at each other
said Jukes blithely, and he strode into the cabin. They
followed him with their eyes; they scarce knew that Hook had resumed his
song, his dogs joining in with him
What was the last line will never be known, for of a sudden the song was
stayed by a dreadful screech from the cabin. It wailed through the ship,
and died away. Then was heard a crowing sound which was well understood
by the boys, but to the pirates was almost more eerie than the screech
cried Hook
said Slightly solemnly.

The Italian Cecco hesitated for a moment and then swung into the cabin.
He tottered out, haggard
hissed Hook, towering over
him
replied Cecco in a hollow
voice
cried the startled pirates
Cecco said, almost gibbering
The exultation of the boys, the lowering looks of the pirates, both were
seen by Hook
he said in his most steely voice
Cecco, bravest of the brave, cowered before his captain, crying "No,
no"; but Hook was purring to his claw
he said musingly.

Cecco went, first flinging his arms despairingly. There was no more
singing, all listened now; and again came a death-screech and again a
crow.

No one spoke except Slightly
he said.

Hook rallied his dogs with a gesture
he
thundered
growled Starkey, and the others took up the
cry
said Hook, purring again
Starkey cried
said Hook, crossing to him
replied Starkey doggedly, and again
he had the support of the crew
asked Hook more pleasantly than ever
Starkey whimpered, all of a tremble now
said Hook, proffering his claw.

Starkey looked round for help, but all deserted him. As he backed up
Hook advanced, and now the red spark was in his eye. With a despairing
scream the pirate leapt upon Long Tom and precipitated himself into the
sea
said Slightly
Hook said courteously
Seizing a lantern and raising his claw with a menacing gesture
he said, and sped into the cabin
How Slightly longed to say it. He wetted his lips to be ready,
but Hook came staggering out, without his lantern
he said a little unsteadily
echoed Mullins
demanded Noodler
said Hook shortly.

His reluctance to return to the cabin impressed them all unfavourably,
and the mutinous sounds again broke forth. All pirates are
superstitious, and Cookson cried
muttered Mullins
said another, looking viciously at Hook
asked Cookson insolently; and one after
another took up the cry
At this the children could
not resist raising a cheer. Hook had well-nigh forgotten his prisoners,
but as he swung round on them now his face lit up again
he cried to his crew
For the last time his dogs admired Hook, and devotedly they did his
bidding. The boys, pretending to struggle, were pushed into the cabin
and the door was closed on them
cried Hook, and all listened. But not one dared to face
the door. Yes, one, Wendy, who all this time had been bound to the mast.
It was for neither a scream nor a crow that she was watching, it was for
the reappearance of Peter.

She had not long to wait. In the cabin he had found the thing for which
he had gone in search: the key that would free the children of their
manacles, and now they all stole forth, armed with such weapons as they
could find. First signing them to hide, Peter cut Wendy's bonds,
and then nothing could have been easier than for them all to fly off
together; but one thing barred the way, an oath
So when he had freed Wendy, he whispered for her to conceal herself with
the others, and himself took her place by the mast, her cloak around him
so that he should pass for her. Then he took a great breath and crowed.

To the pirates it was a voice crying that all the boys lay slain in the
cabin; and they were panic-stricken. Hook tried to hearten them; but
like the dogs he had made them they showed him their fangs, and he knew
that if he took his eyes off them now they would leap at him
he said, ready to cajole or strike as need be, but never
quailing for an instant
they snarled
Some of them remembered that this had been a saying of Flint's
they said doubtfully
cried Hook; and they made a rush at the
figure in the cloak
Mullins hissed jeeringly
replied the figure
came the terrible answer; and as he spoke Peter
flung off his cloak. Then they all knew who 'twas that had been undoing
them in the cabin, and twice Hook essayed to speak and twice he failed.
In that frightful moment I think his fierce heart broke.

At last he cried
but without conviction
Peter's voice rang out; and in another moment
the clash of arms was resounding through the ship. Had the pirates kept
together it is certain that they would have won; but the onset came
when they were still unstrung, and they ran hither and thither, striking
wildly, each thinking himself the last survivor of the crew. Man to man
they were the stronger; but they fought on the defensive only, which
enabled the boys to hunt in pairs and choose their quarry. Some of the
miscreants leapt into the sea; others hid in dark recesses, where they
were found by Slightly, who did not fight, but ran about with a lantern
which he flashed in their faces, so that they were half blinded and
fell as an easy prey to the reeking swords of the other boys. There was
little sound to be heard but the clang of weapons, an occasional
screech or splash, and Slightly monotonously counting -- five -- six -- seven
eight -- nine -- ten -- eleven.

I think all were gone when a group of savage boys surrounded Hook, who
seemed to have a charmed life, as he kept them at bay in that circle
of fire. They had done for his dogs, but this man alone seemed to be a
match for them all. Again and again they closed upon him, and again and
again he hewed a clear space. He had lifted up one boy with his hook,
and was using him as a buckler &lsqb;shield&rsqb;, when another, who had just
passed his sword through Mullins, sprang into the fray
cried the newcomer
Thus suddenly Hook found himself face to face with Peter. The others
drew back and formed a ring around them.

For long the two enemies looked at one another, Hook shuddering
slightly, and Peter with the strange smile upon his face
said Hook at last
came the stern answer
said Hook
Peter answered
Without more words they fell to, and for a space there was no advantage
to either blade. Peter was a superb swordsman, and parried with dazzling
rapidity; ever and anon he followed up a feint with a lunge that got
past his foe's defence, but his shorter reach stood him in ill stead,
and he could not drive the steel home. Hook, scarcely his inferior in
brilliancy, but not quite so nimble in wrist play, forced him back by
the weight of his onset, hoping suddenly to end all with a favourite
thrust, taught him long ago by Barbecue at Rio; but to his astonishment
he found this thrust turned aside again and again. Then he sought to
close and give the quietus with his iron hook, which all this time had
been pawing the air; but Peter doubled under it and, lunging fiercely,
pierced him in the ribs. At the sight of his own blood, whose peculiar
colour, you remember, was offensive to him, the sword fell from Hook's
hand, and he was at Peter's mercy
cried all the boys, but with a magnificent gesture Peter invited
his opponent to pick up his sword. Hook did so instantly, but with a
tragic feeling that Peter was showing good form.

Hitherto he had thought it was some fiend fighting him, but darker
suspicions assailed him now
he cried huskily
Peter answered at a venture
This, of course, was nonsense; but it was proof to the unhappy Hook that
Peter did not know in the least who or what he was, which is the very
pinnacle of good form
he cried despairingly.

He fought now like a human flail, and every sweep of that terrible sword
would have severed in twain any man or boy who obstructed it; but Peter
fluttered round him as if the very wind it made blew him out of the
danger zone. And again and again he darted in and pricked.

Hook was fighting now without hope. That passionate breast no longer
asked for life; but for one boon it craved: to see Peter show bad form
before it was cold forever.

Abandoning the fight he rushed into the powder magazine and fired it
he cried
Now, now, he thought, true form will show.

But Peter issued from the powder magazine with the shell in his hands,
and calmly flung it overboard.

What sort of form was Hook himself showing? Misguided man though he was,
we may be glad, without sympathising with him, that in the end he was
true to the traditions of his race. The other boys were flying around
him now, flouting, scornful; and he staggered about the deck striking up
at them impotently, his mind was no longer with them; it was slouching
in the playing fields of long ago, or being sent up &lsqb;to the headmaster&rsqb;
for good, or watching the wall-game from a famous wall. And his shoes
were right, and his waistcoat was right, and his tie was right, and his
socks were right.

James Hook, thou not wholly unheroic figure, farewell.

For we have come to his last moment.

Seeing Peter slowly advancing upon him through the air with dagger
poised, he sprang upon the bulwarks to cast himself into the sea. He
did not know that the crocodile was waiting for him; for we purposely
stopped the clock that this knowledge might be spared him: a little mark
of respect from us at the end.

He had one last triumph, which I think we need not grudge him. As he
stood on the bulwark looking over his shoulder at Peter gliding through
the air, he invited him with a gesture to use his foot. It made Peter
kick instead of stab.

At last Hook had got the boon for which he craved
he cried jeeringly, and went content to the crocodile.

Thus perished James Hook
Slightly sang out; but he was not quite correct in his
figures. Fifteen paid the penalty for their crimes that night; but two
reached the shore: Starkey to be captured by the redskins, who made him
nurse for all their papooses, a melancholy come-down for a pirate; and
Smee, who henceforth wandered about the world in his spectacles, making
a precarious living by saying he was the only man that Jas. Hook had
feared.

Wendy, of course, had stood by taking no part in the fight, though
watching Peter with glistening eyes; but now that all was over she
became prominent again. She praised them equally, and shuddered
delightfully when Michael showed her the place where he had killed one;
and then she took them into Hook's cabin and pointed to his watch which
was hanging on a nail. It said
The lateness of the hour was almost the biggest thing of all. She got
them to bed in the pirates' bunks pretty quickly, you may be sure; all
but Peter, who strutted up and down on the deck, until at last he fell
asleep by the side of Long Tom. He had one of his dreams that night, and
cried in his sleep for a long time, and Wendy held him tightly
By three bells that morning they were all stirring their stumps &lsqb;legs&rsqb;;
for there was a big sea running; and Tootles, the bo'sun, was among
them, with a rope's end in his hand and chewing tobacco. They all donned
pirate clothes cut off at the knee, shaved smartly, and tumbled up, with
the true nautical roll and hitching their trousers.

It need not be said who was the captain. Nibs and John were first and
second mate. There was a woman aboard. The rest were tars &lsqb;sailors&rsqb;
before the mast, and lived in the fo'c'sle. Peter had already lashed
himself to the wheel; but he piped all hands and delivered a short
address to them; said he hoped they would do their duty like gallant
hearties, but that he knew they were the scum of Rio and the Gold Coast,
and if they snapped at him he would tear them. The bluff strident words
struck the note sailors understood, and they cheered him lustily. Then
a few sharp orders were given, and they turned the ship round, and nosed
her for the mainland.

Captain Pan calculated, after consulting the ship's chart, that if this
weather lasted they should strike the Azores about the 21st of June,
after which it would save time to fly.

Some of them wanted it to be an honest ship and others were in favour
of keeping it a pirate; but the captain treated them as dogs, and they
dared not express their wishes to him even in a round robin &lsqb;one person
after another, as they had to Cpt. Hook&rsqb;. Instant obedience was the only
safe thing. Slightly got a dozen for looking perplexed when told to take
soundings. The general feeling was that Peter was honest just now to
lull Wendy's suspicions, but that there might be a change when the new
suit was ready, which, against her will, she was making for him out of
some of Hook's wickedest garments. It was afterwards whispered among
them that on the first night he wore this suit he sat long in the cabin
with Hook's cigar-holder in his mouth and one hand clenched, all but for
the forefinger, which he bent and held threateningly aloft like a hook.

Instead of watching the ship, however, we must now return to that
desolate home from which three of our characters had taken heartless
flight so long ago. It seems a shame to have neglected No. 14 all this
time; and yet we may be sure that Mrs. Darling does not blame us. If we
had returned sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at her, she would
probably have cried
So long as mothers are like this their
children will take advantage of them; and they may lay to &lsqb;bet on&rsqb; that.

Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because its lawful
occupants are on their way home; we are merely hurrying on in advance
of them to see that their beds are properly aired and that Mr. and Mrs.
Darling do not go out for the evening. We are no more than servants. Why
on earth should their beds be properly aired, seeing that they left them
in such a thankless hurry? Would it not serve them jolly well right if
they came back and found that their parents were spending the week-end
in the country? It would be the moral lesson they have been in need
of ever since we met them; but if we contrived things in this way Mrs.
Darling would never forgive us.

One thing I should like to do immensely, and that is to tell her, in the
way authors have, that the children are coming back, that indeed they
will be here on Thursday week. This would spoil so completely the
surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael are looking forward. They
have been planning it out on the ship: mother's rapture, father's shout
of joy, Nana's leap through the air to embrace them first, when what
they ought to be prepared for is a good hiding. How delicious to spoil
it all by breaking the news in advance; so that when they enter grandly
Mrs. Darling may not even offer Wendy her mouth, and Mr. Darling may
exclaim pettishly
However,
we should get no thanks even for this. We are beginning to know Mrs.
Darling by this time, and may be sure that she would upbraid us for
depriving the children of their little pleasure
You see, the woman had no proper spirit. I had meant to say
extraordinarily nice things about her; but I despise her, and not one of
them will I say now. She does not really need to be told to have things
ready, for they are ready. All the beds are aired, and she never leaves
the house, and observe, the window is open. For all the use we are to
her, we might well go back to the ship. However, as we are here we may
as well stay and look on. That is all we are, lookers-on. Nobody really
wants us. So let us watch and say jaggy things, in the hope that some of
them will hurt.

The only change to be seen in the night-nursery is that between nine
and six the kennel is no longer there. When the children flew away, Mr.
Darling felt in his bones that all the blame was his for having chained
Nana up, and that from first to last she had been wiser than he. Of
course, as we have seen, he was quite a simple man; indeed he might have
passed for a boy again if he had been able to take his baldness off;
but he had also a noble sense of justice and a lion's courage to do what
seemed right to him; and having thought the matter out with anxious care
after the flight of the children, he went down on all fours and crawled
into the kennel. To all Mrs. Darling's dear invitations to him to come
out he replied sadly but firmly
In the bitterness of his remorse he swore that he would never leave
the kennel until his children came back. Of course this was a pity; but
whatever Mr. Darling did he had to do in excess, otherwise he soon gave
up doing it. And there never was a more humble man than the once proud
George Darling, as he sat in the kennel of an evening talking with his
wife of their children and all their pretty ways.

Very touching was his deference to Nana. He would not let her come into
the kennel, but on all other matters he followed her wishes implicitly.

Every morning the kennel was carried with Mr. Darling in it to a cab,
which conveyed him to his office, and he returned home in the same way
at six. Something of the strength of character of the man will be seen
if we remember how sensitive he was to the opinion of neighbours: this
man whose every movement now attracted surprised attention. Inwardly he
must have suffered torture; but he preserved a calm exterior even when
the young criticised his little home, and he always lifted his hat
courteously to any lady who looked inside.

It may have been Quixotic, but it was magnificent. Soon the inward
meaning of it leaked out, and the great heart of the public was touched.
Crowds followed the cab, cheering it lustily; charming girls scaled it
to get his autograph; interviews appeared in the better class of papers,
and society invited him to dinner and added
On that eventful Thursday week, Mrs. Darling was in the night-nursery
awaiting George's return home; a very sad-eyed woman. Now that we look
at her closely and remember the gaiety of her in the old days, all gone
now just because she has lost her babes, I find I won't be able to say
nasty things about her after all. If she was too fond of her rubbishy
children, she couldn't help it. Look at her in her chair, where she has
fallen asleep. The corner of her mouth, where one looks first, is almost
withered up. Her hand moves restlessly on her breast as if she had a
pain there. Some like Peter best, and some like Wendy best, but I like
her best. Suppose, to make her happy, we whisper to her in her sleep
that the brats are coming back. They are really within two miles of the
window now, and flying strong, but all we need whisper is that they are
on the way. Let's.

It is a pity we did it, for she has started up, calling their names; and
there is no one in the room but Nana
Nana had filmy eyes, but all she could do was put her paw gently on her
mistress's lap; and they were sitting together thus when the kennel was
brought back. As Mr. Darling puts his head out to kiss his wife, we see
that his face is more worn than of yore, but has a softer expression.

He gave his hat to Liza, who took it scornfully; for she had no
imagination, and was quite incapable of understanding the motives of
such a man. Outside, the crowd who had accompanied the cab home were
still cheering, and he was naturally not unmoved
he said
sneered Liza
he assured her with a faint flush;
but when she tossed her head he had not a word of reproof for her.
Social success had not spoilt him; it had made him sweeter. For some
time he sat with his head out of the kennel, talking with Mrs. Darling
of this success, and pressing her hand reassuringly when she said she
hoped his head would not be turned by it
he said
she said timidly
You may be sure she begged his pardon; and then, feeling drowsy, he
curled round in the kennel
he asked
and as
she was crossing to the day-nursery he added thoughtlessly
Now it was his turn to beg her pardon; and she went into the day-nursery
and played, and soon he was asleep; and while he slept, Wendy and John
and Michael flew into the room.

Oh no. We have written it so, because that was the charming arrangement
planned by them before we left the ship; but something must have
happened since then, for it is not they who have flown in, it is Peter
and Tinker Bell.

Peter's first words tell all
he whispered
Now I understand what had hitherto puzzled me, why when Peter had
exterminated the pirates he did not return to the island and leave Tink
to escort the children to the mainland. This trick had been in his head
all the time.

Instead of feeling that he was behaving badly he danced with glee; then
he peeped into the day-nursery to see who was playing. He whispered to
Tink
Of course he knew nothing whatever about his mother; but he sometimes
bragged about her.

He did not know the tune, which was
but he knew it
was saying
and he cried exultantly
He peeped in again to see why the music had stopped, and now he saw
that Mrs. Darling had laid her head on the box, and that two tears were
sitting on her eyes
thought Peter
He peeped again, and the tears were still there, or another two had
taken their place
he said to himself. He was angry with her
now for not seeing why she could not have Wendy.

The reason was so simple
But the lady would not make the best of it, and he was unhappy. He
ceased to look at her, but even then she would not let go of him. He
skipped about and made funny faces, but when he stopped it was just as
if she were inside him, knocking
he said at last, and gulped. Then he unbarred the
window
he cried, with a frightful sneer at the laws of
nature
and he flew away.

Thus Wendy and John and Michael found the window open for them after
all, which of course was more than they deserved. They alighted on the
floor, quite unashamed of themselves, and the youngest one had already
forgotten his home
he said, looking around him doubtfully
Michael said, but not with much conviction
cried John
and he dashed across to look into it
Wendy said.

But John whistled
he said
exclaimed Wendy
Michael begged eagerly, and he took a good look
he said with such frank
disappointment that I am glad Mr. Darling was asleep; it would have been
sad if those had been the first words he heard his little Michael say.

Wendy and John had been taken aback somewhat at finding their father in
the kennel
said John, like one who had lost faith in his memory
Wendy said falteringly
A chill fell upon them; and serve them right
said that young scoundrel John
It was then that Mrs. Darling began playing again
cried Wendy, peeping
said John
asked Michael, who was
surely sleepy
exclaimed Wendy, with her first real twinge of remorse &lsqb;for
having gone
John suggested
But Wendy, who saw that they must break the joyous news more gently, had
a better plan
And so when Mrs. Darling went back to the night-nursery to see if her
husband was asleep, all the beds were occupied. The children waited
for her cry of joy, but it did not come. She saw them, but she did not
believe they were there. You see, she saw them in their beds so often in
her dreams that she thought this was just the dream hanging around her
still.

She sat down in the chair by the fire, where in the old days she had
nursed them.

They could not understand this, and a cold fear fell upon all the three
of them
Wendy cried
she said, but still she was sure it was the dream
she said
cried Michael. He knew her now
she said, and she stretched out her arms for the three
little selfish children they would never envelop again. Yes, they did,
they went round Wendy and John and Michael, who had slipped out of bed
and run to her
she cried when she could speak; and Mr. Darling woke
to share her bliss, and Nana came rushing in. There could not have been
a lovelier sight; but there was none to see it except a little boy who
was staring in at the window. He had had ecstasies innumerable that
other children can never know; but he was looking through the window at
the one joy from which he must be for ever barred
I hope you want to know what became of the other boys. They were waiting
below to give Wendy time to explain about them; and when they had
counted five hundred they went up. They went up by the stair, because
they thought this would make a better impression. They stood in a row
in front of Mrs. Darling, with their hats off, and wishing they were not
wearing their pirate clothes. They said nothing, but their eyes asked
her to have them. They ought to have looked at Mr. Darling also, but
they forgot about him.

Of course Mrs. Darling said at once that she would have them; but Mr.
Darling was curiously depressed, and they saw that he considered six a
rather large number
he said to Wendy
a
grudging remark which the twins thought was pointed at them.

The first twin was the proud one, and he asked, flushing
Wendy cried, shocked; but still the cloud was on him. He knew
he was behaving unworthily, but he could not help it
said Nibs
said Wendy
Mrs. Darling exclaimed, pained to see her dear one showing
himself in such an unfavourable light.

Then he burst into tears, and the truth came out. He was as glad to
have them as she was, he said, but he thought they should have asked his
consent as well as hers, instead of treating him as a cypher &lsqb;zero&rsqb; in
his own house
Tootles cried instantly
It turned out that not one of them thought him a cypher; and he was
absurdly gratified, and said he would find space for them all in the
drawing-room if they fitted in
they assured him
he cried gaily
He went off dancing through the house, and they all cried
and
danced after him, searching for the drawing-room; and I forget whether
they found it, but at any rate they found corners, and they all fitted
in.

As for Peter, he saw Wendy once again before he flew away. He did not
exactly come to the window, but he brushed against it in passing so that
she could open it if she liked and call to him. That is what she did
he said
she said falteringly
Mrs. Darling came to the window, for at present she was keeping a sharp
eye on Wendy. She told Peter that she had adopted all the other boys,
and would like to adopt him also
he inquired craftily
he told her
passionately
said Wendy the comforter
and
Mrs. Darling stretched out her arms to him, but he repulsed her
cried Wendy so longingly that Mrs. Darling tightened her
grip
Mrs. Darling said
explained Wendy, who was now
quite an authority
said Peter, with eye on Wendy
she said
she reminded him a
little tartly
Tink called out from somewhere round the corner
Peter said
Peter said, as if he had asked her from politeness
merely; but Mrs. Darling saw his mouth twitch, and she made this
handsome offer: to let Wendy go to him for a week every year to do
his spring cleaning. Wendy would have preferred a more permanent
arrangement; and it seemed to her that spring would be long in coming;
but this promise sent Peter away quite gay again. He had no sense of
time, and was so full of adventures that all I have told you about him
is only a halfpenny-worth of them. I suppose it was because Wendy knew
this that her last words to him were these rather plaintive ones
Of course Peter promised; and then he flew away. He took Mrs. Darling's
kiss with him. The kiss that had been for no one else, Peter took quite
easily. Funny. But she seemed satisfied.

Of course all the boys went to school; and most of them got into Class
III, but Slightly was put first into Class IV and then into Class V.
Class I is the top class. Before they had attended school a week they
saw what goats they had been not to remain on the island; but it was too
late now, and soon they settled down to being as ordinary as you or me
or Jenkins minor &lsqb;the younger Jenkins&rsqb;. It is sad to have to say that
the power to fly gradually left them. At first Nana tied their feet to
the bed-posts so that they should not fly away in the night; and one of
their diversions by day was to pretend to fall off buses &lsqb;the English
double-deckers&rsqb;; but by and by they ceased to tug at their bonds in bed,
and found that they hurt themselves when they let go of the bus. In time
they could not even fly after their hats. Want of practice, they called
it; but what it really meant was that they no longer believed.

Michael believed longer than the other boys, though they jeered at him;
so he was with Wendy when Peter came for her at the end of the first
year. She flew away with Peter in the frock she had woven from leaves
and berries in the Neverland, and her one fear was that he might notice
how short it had become; but he never noticed, he had so much to say
about himself.

She had looked forward to thrilling talks with him about old times, but
new adventures had crowded the old ones from his mind
he asked with interest when she spoke of the arch
enemy
she asked, amazed
he replied carelessly.

When she expressed a doubtful hope that Tinker Bell would be glad to see
her he said
she said, shocked; but even when she explained he could not
remember
he said
I expect he was right, for fairies don't live long, but they are so
little that a short time seems a good while to them.

Wendy was pained too to find that the past year was but as yesterday
to Peter; it had seemed such a long year of waiting to her. But he was
exactly as fascinating as ever, and they had a lovely spring cleaning in
the little house on the tree tops.

Next year he did not come for her. She waited in a new frock because the
old one simply would not meet; but he never came
Michael said
Michael came close to her and whispered, with a shiver
and then Wendy would have cried if Michael
had not been crying.

Peter came next spring cleaning; and the strange thing was that he never
knew he had missed a year.

That was the last time the girl Wendy ever saw him. For a little longer
she tried for his sake not to have growing pains; and she felt she was
untrue to him when she got a prize for general knowledge. But the years
came and went without bringing the careless boy; and when they met again
Wendy was a married woman, and Peter was no more to her than a little
dust in the box in which she had kept her toys. Wendy was grown up. You
need not be sorry for her. She was one of the kind that likes to grow
up. In the end she grew up of her own free will a day quicker than other
girls.

All the boys were grown up and done for by this time; so it is scarcely
worth while saying anything more about them. You may see the twins and
Nibs and Curly any day going to an office, each carrying a little bag
and an umbrella. Michael is an engine-driver &lsqb;train engineer&rsqb;. Slightly
married a lady of title, and so he became a lord. You see that judge in
a wig coming out at the iron door? That used to be Tootles. The bearded
man who doesn't know any story to tell his children was once John.

Wendy was married in white with a pink sash. It is strange to think
that Peter did not alight in the church and forbid the banns &lsqb;formal
announcement of a marriage&rsqb;.

Years rolled on again, and Wendy had a daughter. This ought not to be
written in ink but in a golden splash.

She was called Jane, and always had an odd inquiring look, as if from
the moment she arrived on the mainland she wanted to ask questions. When
she was old enough to ask them they were mostly about Peter Pan. She
loved to hear of Peter, and Wendy told her all she could remember in the
very nursery from which the famous flight had taken place. It was
Jane's nursery now, for her father had bought it at the three per cents
&lsqb;mortgage rate&rsqb; from Wendy's father, who was no longer fond of stairs.
Mrs. Darling was now dead and forgotten.

There were only two beds in the nursery now, Jane's and her nurse's; and
there was no kennel, for Nana also had passed away. She died of old age,
and at the end she had been rather difficult to get on with; being very
firmly convinced that no one knew how to look after children except
herself.

Once a week Jane's nurse had her evening off; and then it was Wendy's
part to put Jane to bed. That was the time for stories. It was Jane's
invention to raise the sheet over her mother's head and her own, thus
making a tent, and in the awful darkness to whisper
says Wendy, with a feeling that
if Nana were here she would object to further conversation
says Jane
says Wendy
asks the artful child
Or perhaps Wendy admits she does see something
she says
says Jane
They are now embarked on the great adventure of the night when Peter
flew in looking for his shadow
says Wendy
interrupts Jane, who now knows the story better
than her mother
says Jane, with a big breath
Wendy said it with a smile. She was
as grown up as that
Jane asked one evening
Wendy said, trying to imitate Peter's crow
Jane said gravely
and she did it
ever so much better than her mother.

Wendy was a little startled
Jane said
said Jane.

And then one night came the tragedy. It was the spring of the year, and
the story had been told for the night, and Jane was now asleep in her
bed. Wendy was sitting on the floor, very close to the fire, so as to
see to darn, for there was no other light in the nursery; and while she
sat darning she heard a crow. Then the window blew open as of old, and
Peter dropped in on the floor.

He was exactly the same as ever, and Wendy saw at once that he still had
all his first teeth.

He was a little boy, and she was grown up. She huddled by the fire not
daring to move, helpless and guilty, a big woman
he said, not noticing any difference, for he was
thinking chiefly of himself; and in the dim light her white dress might
have been the nightgown in which he had seen her first
she replied faintly, squeezing herself as small as
possible. Something inside her was crying
he asked, suddenly missing the third bed
she gasped
he asked, with a careless glance at Jane
she answered; and now she felt that she was untrue to Jane as
well as to Peter
she said quickly, lest a judgment should fall on
her.

Peter looked
Now surely he would understand; but not a bit of it
she said, faltering
He added a little sternly
She knew it was useless to say that he had let many spring cleaning
times pass
she said apologetically
She had risen; and now at last a fear assailed him
he
cried, shrinking
she said
For almost the only time in his life that I know of, Peter was afraid
he cried.

She let her hands play in the hair of the tragic boy. She was not a
little girl heart-broken about him; she was a grown woman smiling at it
all, but they were wet-eyed smiles.

Then she turned up the light, and Peter saw. He gave a cry of pain; and
when the tall beautiful creature stooped to lift him in her arms he drew
back sharply
he cried again.

She had to tell him
But he supposed she was; and he took a step towards the sleeping child
with his dagger upraised. Of course he did not strike. He sat down on
the floor instead and sobbed; and Wendy did not know how to comfort him,
though she could have done it so easily once. She was only a woman now,
and she ran out of the room to try to think.

Peter continued to cry, and soon his sobs woke Jane. She sat up in bed,
and was interested at once
she said
Peter rose and bowed to her, and she bowed to him from the bed
he said
said Jane
he told her
he explained
Jane said
When Wendy returned diffidently she found Peter sitting on the bed-post
crowing gloriously, while Jane in her nighty was flying round the room
in solemn ecstasy
Peter explained; and Jane descended and stood by his
side, with the look in her face that he liked to see on ladies when they
gazed at him
Jane said
Wendy admitted rather forlornly
said Peter to Wendy; and he rose in the air, and the
shameless Jane rose with him; it was already her easiest way of moving
about.

Wendy rushed to the window
she cried
Jane said
Wendy sighed
said Jane.

Of course in the end Wendy let them fly away together. Our last glimpse
of her shows her at the window, watching them receding into the sky
until they were as small as stars.

As you look at Wendy, you may see her hair becoming white, and her
figure little again, for all this happened long ago. Jane is now a
common grown-up, with a daughter called Margaret; and every spring
cleaning time, except when he forgets, Peter comes for Margaret and
takes her to the Neverland, where she tells him stories about himself,
to which he listens eagerly. When Margaret grows up she will have a
daughter, who is to be Peter's mother in turn; and thus it will go on,
so long as children are gay and innocent and heartless.


THE END
</text>
