<text>
Decorative graphic of children
Woman opening window and seeing bird&rsqb;

HIGH above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy
Prince.  He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes
he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his
sword-hilt.

He was very much admired indeed
remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for
having artistic tastes
he added, fearing
lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not
asked a sensible mother of her
little boy who was crying for the moon
muttered a
disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue
said the Charity Children as they came out
of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white
pinafores
said the Mathematical Master
answered the children; and the
Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not
approve of children dreaming.

One night there flew over the city a little Swallow.  His friends had
gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was
in love with the most beautiful Reed.  He had met her early in the spring
as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so
attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her
said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point at
once, and the Reed made him a low bow.  So he flew round and round her,
touching the water with his wings, and making silver ripples.  This was
his courtship, and it lasted all through the summer
twittered the other Swallows
and indeed the river was quite
full of Reeds.  Then, when the autumn came they all flew away.

After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love
he said
And certainly,
whenever the wind blew, the Reed made the most graceful curtseys
he continued
he said finally to her; but the Reed shook
her head, she was so attached to her home
he cried
and he flew away.

All day long he flew, and at night-time he arrived at the city
he said
Then he saw the statue on the tall column
he cried
So he alighted just between the feet of the Happy Prince
he said softly to himself as he looked round,
and he prepared to go to sleep; but just as he was putting his head under
his wing a large drop of water fell on him
he
cried
Then another drop fell
he said
and he determined to fly away.

But before he had opened his wings, a third drop fell, and he looked up,
and saw--Ah! what did he see?

The eyes of the Happy Prince were filled with tears, and tears were
running down his golden cheeks.  His face was so beautiful in the
moonlight that the little Swallow was filled with pity
he said
asked the Swallow
answered the statue
said the Swallow to himself.  He was too
polite to make any personal remarks out loud
continued the statue in a low musical voice
said the Swallow
said the Prince
answered the Swallow
But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry
he said
said the Prince.

So the Swallow picked out the great ruby from the Prince's sword, and
flew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town.

He passed by the cathedral tower, where the white marble angels were
sculptured.  He passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing.  A
beautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover
he said to her
she answered
He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of
the ships.  He passed over the Ghetto, and saw the old Jews bargaining
with each other, and weighing out money in copper scales.  At last he
came to the poor house and looked in.  The boy was tossing feverishly on
his bed, and the mother had fallen asleep, she was so tired.  In he
hopped, and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman's thimble.
Then he flew gently round the bed, fanning the boy's forehead with his
wings
said the boy
and
he sank into a delicious slumber.

Then the Swallow flew back to the Happy Prince, and told him what he had
done
he remarked
said the Prince.  And the
little Swallow began to think, and then he fell asleep.  Thinking always
made him sleepy.

When day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath
said the Professor of Ornithology as he was
passing over the bridge
And he wrote a long
letter about it to the local newspaper.  Every one quoted it, it was full
of so many words that they could not understand
said the Swallow, and he was in high spirits at
the prospect.  He visited all the public monuments, and sat a long time
on top of the church steeple.  Wherever he went the Sparrows chirruped,
and said to each other
so he enjoyed
himself very much.

When the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince
he cried
said the Prince
answered the Swallow
said the Prince
said the Swallow, who really had
a good heart
said the Prince
said the Swallow
and he began to
weep
said the Prince
So the Swallow plucked out the Prince's eye, and flew away to the
student's garret.  It was easy enough to get in, as there was a hole in
the roof.  Through this he darted, and came into the room.  The young man
had his head buried in his hands, so he did not hear the flutter of the
bird's wings, and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lying
on the withered violets
he cried
and he looked quite happy.

The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour.  He sat on the mast of
a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold
with ropes
they shouted as each chest came up
cried the Swallow, but nobody minded, and when the moon
rose he flew back to the Happy Prince
he cried
said the Prince
answered the Swallow
said the Happy Prince
said the Swallow
said the Prince
So he plucked out the Prince's other eye, and darted down with it.  He
swooped past the match-girl, and slipped the jewel into the palm of her
hand
cried the little girl; and she ran
home, laughing.

Then the Swallow came back to the Prince
he said
said the poor Prince
said the Swallow, and he slept at the
Prince's feet.

All the next day he sat on the Prince's shoulder, and told him stories of
what he had seen in strange lands.  He told him of the red ibises, who
stand in long rows on the banks of the Nile, and catch gold-fish in their
beaks; of the Sphinx, who is as old as the world itself, and lives in the
desert, and knows everything; of the merchants, who walk slowly by the
side of their camels, and carry amber beads in their hands; of the King
of the Mountains of the Moon, who is as black as ebony, and worships a
large crystal; of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm-tree, and
has twenty priests to feed it with honey-cakes; and of the pygmies who
sail over a big lake on large flat leaves, and are always at war with the
butterflies
said the Prince
So the Swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry in
their beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates.  He
flew into dark lanes, and saw the white faces of starving children
looking out listlessly at the black streets.  Under the archway of a
bridge two little boys were lying in one another's arms to try and keep
themselves warm
they said
shouted the Watchman, and they wandered out into the rain.

Then he flew back and told the Prince what he had seen
said the Prince
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off, till the Happy
Prince looked quite dull and grey.  Leaf after leaf of the fine gold he
brought to the poor, and the children's faces grew rosier, and they
laughed and played games in the street
they cried.

Then the snow came, and after the snow came the frost.  The streets
looked as if they were made of silver, they were so bright and
glistening; long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves of
the houses, everybody went about in furs, and the little boys wore
scarlet caps and skated on the ice.

The poor little Swallow grew colder and colder, but he would not leave
the Prince, he loved him too well.  He picked up crumbs outside the
baker's door when the baker was not looking and tried to keep himself
warm by flapping his wings.

But at last he knew that he was going to die.  He had just strength to
fly up to the Prince's shoulder once more
he
murmured
said the
Prince
said the Swallow
And he kissed the Happy Prince on the lips, and fell down dead at his
feet.

At that moment a curious crack sounded inside the statue, as if something
had broken.  The fact is that the leaden heart had snapped right in two.
It certainly was a dreadfully hard frost.

Early the next morning the Mayor was walking in the square below in
company with the Town Councillors.  As they passed the column he looked
up at the statue
he said
cried the Town Councillors, who always agreed with
the Mayor; and they went up to look at it
said the Mayor in fact
said the Town Councillors
continued the Mayor
And the Town Clerk made a note of the suggestion.

So they pulled down the statue of the Happy Prince
said the Art Professor at the
University.

Then they melted the statue in a furnace, and the Mayor held a meeting of
the Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal
he said
said each of the Town Councillors, and they quarrelled.
When I last heard of them they were quarrelling still
said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry
So they threw it on a dust-heap where the dead Swallow was also
lying
said God to one of
His Angels; and the Angel brought Him the leaden heart and the dead bird
said God
Decorative graphic of two birds
Decorative graphic of young man lying on grass
cried
the young Student
From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale heard him, and she
looked out through the leaves, and wondered
he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled
with tears
said the Nightingale
murmured the young Student
said the Nightingale
said the young Student
and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in
his hands, and wept
asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him with
his tail in the air
said a Butterfly, who was fluttering about after a
sunbeam
whispered a Daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice
said the Nightingale
they cried
and the little
Lizard, who was something of a cynic, laughed outright.

But the Nightingale understood the secret of the Student's sorrow, and
she sat silent in the oak-tree, and thought about the mystery of Love.

Suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.
She passed through the grove like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed
across the garden.

In the centre of the grass-plot was standing a beautiful Rose-tree, and
when she saw it she flew over to it, and lit upon a spray
she cried
But the Tree shook its head
it answered
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing round the
old sun-dial
she cried
But the Tree shook its head
it answered
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing beneath
the Student's window
she cried
But the Tree shook its head
it answered
cried the Nightingale
answered the Tree
said the Nightingale
said the Tree
cried the Nightingale
So she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.  She
swept over the garden like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed through
the grove.

The young Student was still lying on the grass, where she had left him,
and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes
cried the Nightingale
The Student looked up from the grass, and listened, but he could not
understand what the Nightingale was saying to him, for he only knew the
things that are written down in books.

But the Oak-tree understood, and felt sad, for he was very fond of the
little Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches
he whispered
So the Nightingale sang to the Oak-tree, and her voice was like water
bubbling from a silver jar.

When she had finished her song the Student got up, and pulled a note-book
and a lead-pencil out of his pocket
he said to himself, as he walked away through the
grove
And he went into his room, and lay down on his little pallet-bed, and
began to think of his love; and, after a time, he fell asleep.

And when the Moon shone in the heavens the Nightingale flew to the
Rose-tree, and set her breast against the thorn.  All night long she sang
with her breast against the thorn, and the cold crystal Moon leaned down
and listened.  All night long she sang, and the thorn went deeper and
deeper into her breast, and her life-blood ebbed away from her.

She sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl.
And on the top-most spray of the Rose-tree there blossomed a marvellous
rose, petal following petal, as song followed song.  Pale was it, at
first, as the mist that hangs over the river--pale as the feet of the
morning, and silver as the wings of the dawn.  As the shadow of a rose in
a mirror of silver, as the shadow of a rose in a water-pool, so was the
rose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the Tree.

But the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn
cried the Tree
So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and louder and
louder grew her song, for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul of
a man and a maid.

And a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose, like the
flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride.
But the thorn had not yet reached her heart, so the rose's heart remained
white, for only a Nightingale's heart's-blood can crimson the heart of a
rose.

And the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn
cried the Tree
So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and the thorn
touched her heart, and a fierce pang of pain shot through her.  Bitter,
bitter was the pain, and wilder and wilder grew her song, for she sang of
the Love that is perfected by Death, of the Love that dies not in the
tomb.

And the marvellous rose became crimson, like the rose of the eastern sky.
Crimson was the girdle of petals, and crimson as a ruby was the heart.

But the Nightingale's voice grew fainter, and her little wings began to
beat, and a film came over her eyes.  Fainter and fainter grew her song,
and she felt something choking her in her throat.

Then she gave one last burst of music.  The white Moon heard it, and she
forgot the dawn, and lingered on in the sky.  The red rose heard it, and
it trembled all over with ecstasy, and opened its petals to the cold
morning air.  Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills, and woke
the sleeping shepherds from their dreams.  It floated through the reeds
of the river, and they carried its message to the sea
cried the Tree
but the
Nightingale made no answer, for she was lying dead in the long grass,
with the thorn in her heart.

And at noon the Student opened his window and looked out
he cried
and he leaned down and plucked it.

Then he put on his hat, and ran up to the Professor's house with the rose
in his hand.

The daughter of the Professor was sitting in the doorway winding blue
silk on a reel, and her little dog was lying at her feet
cried the Student
But the girl frowned
she answered
said the Student angrily;
and he threw the rose into the street, where it fell into the gutter, and
a cart-wheel went over it
said the girl
and she got up from her chair and went into the house
said the Student as he walked away
So he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book, and began
to read.

          &lsqb;Decorative graphic of nightingale and rose
The Selfish Giant&rsqb;

EVERY afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go
and play in the Giant's garden.

It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass.  Here and there over
the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve
peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of
pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit.  The birds sat on the
trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in
order to listen to them
they cried to each
other.

           &lsqb;Decorative graphic of children in garden&rsqb;

One day the Giant came back.  He had been to visit his friend the Cornish
ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years.  After the seven years
were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was
limited, and he determined to return to his own castle.  When he arrived
he saw the children playing in the garden
he cried in a very gruff voice, and the
children ran away
said the Giant
So he built a
high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board.

          TRESPASSERS

            WILL BE

           PROSECUTED

He was a very selfish Giant.

The poor children had now nowhere to play.  They tried to play on the
road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did
not like it.  They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons
were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside
they said to each other.

Then the Spring came, and all over the country there were little blossoms
and little birds.  Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still
winter.  The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children,
and the trees forgot to blossom.  Once a beautiful flower put its head
out from the grass, but when it saw the notice-board it was so sorry for
the children that it slipped back into the ground again, and went off to
sleep.  The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost
they cried
The Snow covered up the grass with her great white
cloak, and the Frost painted all the trees silver.  Then they invited the
North Wind to stay with them, and he came.  He was wrapped in furs, and
he roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney-pots down
he said
So the Hail came.  Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of
the castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round and
round the garden as fast as he could go.  He was dressed in grey, and his
breath was like ice
said the
Selfish Giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white
garden
But the Spring never came, nor the Summer.  The Autumn gave golden fruit
to every garden, but to the Giant's garden she gave none
she said.  So it was always Winter there, and the North Wind,
and the Hail, and the Frost, and the Snow danced about through the trees.

One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely
music.  It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the
King's musicians passing by.  It was really only a little linnet singing
outside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in
his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the
world.  Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head, and the North Wind
ceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the open
casement
said the Giant; and
he jumped out of bed and looked out.

What did he see?

He saw a most wonderful sight.  Through a little hole in the wall the
children had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of the
trees.  In every tree that he could see there was a little child.  And
the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had
covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above
the children's heads.  The birds were flying about and twittering with
delight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and
laughing.  It was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still winter.
It was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a little
boy.  He was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of the
tree, and he was wandering all round it, crying bitterly.  The poor tree
was still quite covered with frost and snow, and the North Wind was
blowing and roaring above it
said the Tree, and
it bent its branches down as low as it could; but the boy was too tiny.

And the Giant's heart melted as he looked out
he said
He was really very sorry for what he had done.

So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and went
out into the garden.  But when the children saw him they were so
frightened that they all ran away, and the garden became winter again.
Only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears that
he did not see the Giant coming.  And the Giant stole up behind him and
took him gently in his hand, and put him up into the tree.  And the tree
broke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and the
little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant's
neck, and kissed him.  And the other children, when they saw that the
Giant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them came
the Spring
said the Giant,
and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall.  And when the people
were going to market at twelve o'clock they found the Giant playing with
the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen.

All day long they played, and in the evening they came to the Giant to
bid him good-bye
he said
The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him
answered the children
said the Giant.
But the children said that they did not know where he lived, and had
never seen him before; and the Giant felt very sad.

Every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played with
the Giant.  But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again.
The Giant was very kind to all the children, yet he longed for his first
little friend, and often spoke of him
he
used to say.

Years went over, and the Giant grew very old and feeble.  He could not
play about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched the
children at their games, and admired his garden
he said
One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing.  He
did not hate the Winter now, for he knew that it was merely the Spring
asleep, and that the flowers were resting.

Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked.  It
certainly was a marvellous sight.  In the farthest corner of the garden
was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms.  Its branches were
all golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stood
the little boy he had loved.

Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy, and out into the garden.  He
hastened across the grass, and came near to the child.  And when he came
quite close his face grew red with anger, and he said
For on the palms of the child's hands were the prints of
two nails, and the prints of two nails were on the little feet
cried the Giant
answered the child
said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he
knelt before the little child.

And the child smiled on the Giant, and said to him
And when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the Giant lying
dead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms.

                 &lsqb;Decorative graphic of wreath
Hans and the Miller&rsqb;

ONE morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole.  He had
bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long
bit of black india-rubber.  The little ducks were swimming about in the
pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who
was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand
on their heads in the water
she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them
how it was done.  But the little ducks paid no attention to her.  They
were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in
society at all
cried the old Water-rat
answered the Duck
said the Water-rat
asked a
Green Linnet, who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by, and had overheard
the conversation
said the Duck; and she swam away
to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her
children a good example
cried the Water-rat
said the little bird, swinging upon a
silver spray, and flapping his tiny wings
answered the Water-rat
said the Linnet
asked the Water-rat
answered the Linnet; and he flew down, and
alighting upon the bank, he told the story of The Devoted Friend
said the Linnet
asked the Water-rat
answered the Linnet
asked the Water-rat
answered the Linnet
said the Water-rat
said the Linnet, hopping now on one leg and now on the other
said the Water-rat, after a long pause
said the Linnet
asked the Water-rat
replied the Linnet
said
the Water-rat
remarked the
Linnet
screamed the Water-rat
said the Linnet
said the Water-rat, in a very angry manner
so he shouted out
"Pooh" at the top of his voice, gave a whisk with his tail, and went back
into his hole
asked the Duck, who came paddling up
some minutes afterwards
answered the Linnet
said the Duck.

And I quite agree with her.

     &lsqb;Decorative graphic of windmill and overturned barrow
The Remarkable Rocket&rsqb;

THE King's son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.
He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.
She was a Russian Princess, and had driven all the way from Finland in a
sledge drawn by six reindeer.  The sledge was shaped like a great golden
swan, and between the swan's wings lay the little Princess herself.  Her
long ermine-cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny
cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she
had always lived.  So pale was she that as she drove through the streets
all the people wondered
they cried, and
they threw down flowers on her from the balconies.

  &lsqb;Decorative graphic of young man kissing the princess' hand&rsqb;

At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her.  He had
dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.  When he saw her he
sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand
he murmured
and the little Princess blushed
said a young Page to his neighbour
and the whole Court was delighted.

For the next three days everybody went about saying
and the King gave orders that the Page's
salary was to be doubled.  As he received no salary at all this was not
of much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was duly
published in the Court Gazette.

When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated.  It was a
magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand
under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls.  Then
there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.  The Prince and
Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear
crystal.  Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips
touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy
said the little Page
and the King doubled his salary a second time
cried all the courtiers.

After the banquet there was to be a Ball.  The bride and bridegroom were
to dance the Rose-dance together, and the King had promised to play the
flute.  He played very badly, but no one had ever dared to tell him so,
because he was the King.  Indeed, he knew only two airs, and was never
quite certain which one he was playing; but it made no matter, for,
whatever he did, everybody cried out
The last item on the programme was a grand display of fireworks, to be
let off exactly at midnight.  The little Princess had never seen a
firework in her life, so the King had given orders that the Royal
Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage
she had asked the Prince, one morning, as she
was walking on the terrace
said the King, who always answered
questions that were addressed to other people
So at the end of the King's garden a great stand had been set up, and as
soon as the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place,
the fireworks began to talk to each other
cried a little Squib
said a big Roman
Candle
exclaimed a pensive Catherine
Wheel, who had been attached to an old deal box in early life, and prided
herself on her broken heart
said the Roman Candle
But the Catherine Wheel shook her head
she murmured.  She was one of those people who
think that, if you say the same thing over and over a great many times,
it becomes true in the end.

Suddenly, a sharp, dry cough was heard, and they all looked round.

It came from a tall, supercilious-looking Rocket, who was tied to the end
of a long stick.  He always coughed before he made any observation, so as
to attract attention
he said, and everybody listened except the poor Catherine
Wheel, who was still shaking her head, and murmuring
cried out a Cracker.  He was something of a politician,
and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections, so he knew
the proper Parliamentary expressions to use
whispered the Catherine Wheel, and she went off to sleep.

As soon as there was perfect silence, the Rocket coughed a third time and
began.  He spoke with a very slow, distinct voice, as if he was dictating
his memoirs, and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom he
was talking.  In fact, he had a most distinguished manner
he remarked
said the little Squib
he answered
said a Bengal Light
answered the Rocket, in a severe tone of
voice, and the Bengal Light felt so crushed that he began at once to
bully the little squibs, in order to show that he was still a person of
some importance
continued the Rocket
replied the Roman Candle
said the Cracker to the Roman Candle
answered the Roman Candle in a low whisper; and the
Cracker nearly exploded with laughter
inquired the Rocket
replied the Cracker
said the Rocket angrily
cried the Roman Candle
exclaimed the Bengal Light, who was now in better spirits
said the Rocket indignantly
exclaimed a small Fire-balloon
said the Rocket
said the Roman Candle
replied the Rocket
cried the Bengal Light
said the Rocket
growled the Roman Candle
answered the Rocket
said the Fire-balloon
answered the Rocket
and he actually burst into real tears, which
flowed down his stick like rain-drops, and nearly drowned two little
beetles, who were just thinking of setting up house together, and were
looking for a nice dry spot to live in
said the Catherine Wheel
and she heaved a deep
sigh, and thought about the deal box.

But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light were quite indignant, and kept
saying
at the top of their voices.  They were
extremely practical, and whenever they objected to anything they called
it humbug.

Then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield; and the stars began to
shine, and a sound of music came from the palace.

The Prince and Princess were leading the dance.  They danced so
beautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window and
watched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time.

Then ten o'clock struck, and then eleven, and then twelve, and at the
last stroke of midnight every one came out on the terrace, and the King
sent for the Royal Pyrotechnist
said the King; and the Royal Pyrotechnist made
a low bow, and marched down to the end of the garden.  He had six
attendants with him, each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of a
long pole.

It was certainly a magnificent display.

Whizz! Whizz! went the Catherine Wheel, as she spun round and round.
Boom!  Boom! went the Roman Candle.  Then the Squibs danced all over the
place, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet
cried the Fire-balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks.
Bang! Bang! answered the Crackers, who were enjoying themselves
immensely.  Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket.
He was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all.  The best
thing in him was the gunpowder, and that was so wet with tears that it
was of no use.  All his poor relations, to whom he would never speak,
except with a sneer, shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowers
with blossoms of fire.  Huzza! Huzza! cried the Court; and the little
Princess laughed with pleasure
said the
Rocket
and he looked more supercilious
than ever.

The next day the workmen came to put everything tidy
said the Rocket
so he put his nose in the air, and began to frown severely as if
he were thinking about some very important subject.  But they took no
notice of him at all till they were just going away.  Then one of them
caught sight of him
he cried
and he
threw him over the wall into the ditch
he said, as he whirled through the air
and he fell
into the mud
he remarked
Then a little Frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat,
swam up to him
said the Frog
said the Rocket, and he began to cough
cried the Frog
said the Rocket angrily.  He was very much annoyed that he
could not get a word in
continued the Frog
said the Rocket
answered the Frog
said the Rocket
said the Frog complacently
said the Rocket
said a Dragon-fly, who was sitting on
the top of a large brown bulrush
answered the Rocket
said the Dragon-fly;
and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky
said the Rocket
and he sank down a little deeper into the mud.

After some time a large White Duck swam up to him.  She had yellow legs,
and webbed feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of her
waddle
she said
answered
the Rocket
said the Duck
cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice
said the Duck, who was of a very peaceable disposition, and
never quarrelled with any one
cried the Rocket
remarked the Duck
said the Rocket
said the Duck
and she swam away down the stream,
saying
screamed the Rocket
but the Duck paid no attention to him
he said to himself
and
he sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about the
loneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came
running down the bank, with a kettle and some faggots
said the Rocket, and he tried to look very
dignified
cried one of the boys
and he picked the rocket out of the ditch
said the Rocket
said the other boy
So they piled the faggots together, and put the Rocket on top, and lit
the fire
cried the Rocket
they said
and they lay down on the grass, and shut their eyes.

The Rocket was very damp, so he took a long time to burn.  At last,
however, the fire caught him
he cried, and he made himself very stiff and
straight
Fizz! Fizz! Fizz! and he went straight up into the air
he cried
But nobody saw him.

Then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him
he cried
And he certainly did explode.  Bang! Bang! Bang! went the
gunpowder.  There was no doubt about it.

But nobody heard him, not even the two little boys, for they were sound
asleep.

Then all that was left of him was the stick, and this fell down on the
back of a Goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch
cried the Goose
and she
rushed into the water
gasped the Rocket, and he
went out
</text>
