<text>
THERE was once a little princess who
There was once a little princess whose father was king over a great
country full of mountains and valleys. His palace was built upon one of
the mountains, and was very grand and beautiful. The princess, whose
name was Irene, was born there, but she was sent soon after her birth,
because her mother was not very strong, to be brought up by country
people in a large house, half castle, half farm-house, on the side of
another mountain, about halfway between its base and its peak.

The princess was a sweet little creature, and at the time my story
begins was about eight years old. I think, but she got older very fast.
Her face was fair and pretty, with eyes like two bits of night-sky, each
with a star dissolved in the blue. Those eyes you would have thought
must have known they came from there, so often were they turned up in
that direction. The ceiling of her nursery was blue, with stars in it,
as like the sky as they could make it. But I doubt if ever she saw the
real sky with the stars in it, for a reason which I had better mention
at once.

These mountains were full of hollow places underneath; huge caverns, and
winding ways, some with water running through them, and some shining
with all colors of the rainbow when a light was taken in. There would
not have been much known about them, had there not been mines there,
great deep pits, with long galleries and passages running off from them,
which had been dug to get at the ore of which the mountains were full.
In the course of digging, the miners came upon many of these natural
caverns. A few of them had far-off openings out on the side of a
mountain, or into a ravine.

Now in these subterranean caverns lived a strange race of beings, called
by some gnomes, by some kobolds, by some goblins. There was a legend
current in the country that at one time they lived above ground, and
were very like other people. But for some reason or other, concerning
which there were different legendary theories, the king had laid what
they thought too severe taxes upon them, or had required observances of
them they did not like, or had begun to treat them with more severity in
some way or other, and impose stricter laws; and the consequence was
that they had all disappeared from the face of the country. According to
the legend, however, instead of going to some other country, they had
all taken refuge in the subterranean caverns, whence they never came out
but at night, and then seldom showed themselves in any numbers, and
never to many people at once. It was only in the least frequented and
most difficult parts of the mountains that they were said to gather even
at night in the open air. Those who had caught sight of any of them said
that they had greatly altered in the course of generations; and no
wonder, seeing they lived away from the sun, in cold and wet and dark
places. They were now, not ordinarily ugly, but either absolutely
hideous, or ludicrously grotesque both in face and form. There was no
invention, they said, of the most lawless imagination expressed by pen
or pencil, that could surpass the extravagance of their appearance. And
as they grew mis-shapen in body, they had grown in knowledge and
cleverness, and now were able to do things no mortal could see the
possibility of. But as they grew in cunning, they grew in mischief, and
their great delight was in every way they could think of to annoy the
people who lived in the open-air-story above them. They had enough of
affection left for each other, to preserve them from being absolutely
cruel for cruelty's sake to those that came in their way; but still they
so heartily cherished the ancestral grudge against those who occupied
their former possession, and especially against the descendants of the
king who had caused their expulsion, that they sought every opportunity
of tormenting them in ways that were as odd as their inventors; and
although dwarfed and mis-shapen, they had strength equal to their
cunning. In the process of time they had got a king, and a government of
their own, whose chief business, beyond their own simple affairs, was to
devise trouble for their neighbors. It will now be pretty evident why
the little princess had never seen the sky at night. They were much too
afraid of the goblins to let her out of the house then, even in company
with ever so many attendants; and they had good reason, as we shall see
by-and-by
I HAVE said the Princess Irene was about eight years old when my story
begins. And this is how it begins.

One very wet day, when the mountain was covered with mist which was
constantly gathering itself together into rain-drops, and pouring down
on the roofs of the great old house, whence it fell in a fringe of water
from the eaves all round about it, the princess could not of course go
out. She got very tired, so tired that even her toys could no longer
amuse her. You would wonder at that if I had time to describe to you one
half of the toys she had. But then you wouldn't have the toys
themselves, and that makes all the difference: you can't get tired of a
thing before you have it. It was a picture, though, worth seeing -- the
princess sitting in the nursery with the sky-ceiling over her head, at a
great table covered with her toys. If the artist would like to draw
this, I should advise him not to meddle with the toys. I am afraid of
attempting to describe them, and I think he had better not try to draw
them. He had better not. He can do a thousand things I can't, but I
don't think he could draw those toys. No man could better make the
princess herself than he could, though -- leaning with her back bowed into
the back of the chair, her head hanging down, and her hands in her lap,
very miserable as she would say herself, not even knowing what she would
like, except to go out and get very wet, catch a particularly nice
cold, and have to go to bed and take gruel. The next moment after you
see her sitting there, her nurse goes out of the room.

&lsqb;She ran for some distance, turned several times, and then
began to be afraid.&rsqb;

Even that is a change, and the princess wakes up a little, and looks
about her. Then she tumbles off her chair, and runs out of the door, not
the same door the nurse went out of, but one which opened at the foot of
a curious old stair of worm-eaten oak, which looked as if never any one
had set foot upon it. She had once before been up six steps, and that
was sufficient reason, in such a day, for trying to find out what was at
the top of it.

Up and up she ran -- such a long way it seemed to her! until she came to
the top of the third flight. There she found the landing was the end of
a long passage. Into this she ran. It was full of doors on each side.
There were so many that she did not care to open any, but ran on to the
end, where she turned into another passage, also full of doors. When she
had turned twice more, and still saw doors and only doors about her, she
began to get frightened. It was so silent! And all those doors must hide
rooms with nobody in them! That was dreadful. Also the rain made a great
trampling noise on the roof. She turned and started at full speed, her
little footsteps echoing through the sounds of the rain -- back for the
stairs and her safe nursery. So she thought, but she had lost herself
long ago. It doesn't follow that she _was_ lost, because she had lost
herself though.

She ran for some distance, turned several times, and then began to be
afraid. Very soon she was sure that she had lost the way back. Rooms
everywhere, and no stair! Her little heart beat as fast as her little
feet ran, and a lump of tears was growing in her throat. But she was too
eager and perhaps too frightened to cry for some time. At last her hope
failed her. Nothing but passages and doors everywhere! She threw herself
on the floor, and began to wail and cry.

She did not cry long, however, for she was as brave as could be expected
of a princess of her age. After a good cry, she got up, and brushed the
dust from her frock. Oh what old dust it was! Then she wiped her eyes
with her hands, for princesses don't always have their handkerchiefs in
their pockets any more than some other little girls I know of. Next,
like a true princess, she resolved on going wisely to work to find her
way back: she would walk through the passages, and look in every
direction for the stair. This she did, but without success. She went
over the same ground again and again without knowing it, for the
passages and doors were all alike. At last, in a corner, through a
half-open door, she did see a stair. But alas! it went the wrong way:
instead of going down, it went up. Frightened as she was, however, she
could not help wishing to see where yet further the stair could lead. It
was very narrow, and so steep that she went up like a four-legged
creature on her hands and feet
WHEN she came to the top, she found herself in a little square place,
with three doors, two opposite each other, and one opposite the top of
the stair. She stood for a moment, without an idea in her little head
what to do next. But as she stood, she began to hear a curious humming
sound. Could it be the rain? No. It was much more gentle, and even
monotonous than the sound of the rain, which now she scarcely heard. The
low sweet humming sound went on, sometimes stopping for a little while
and then beginning again. It was more like the hum of a very happy bee
that had found a rich well of honey in some globular flower, than
anything else I can think of at this moment. Where could it come from?
She laid her ear first to one of the doors to hearken if it was
there -- then to another. When she laid her ear against the third door,
there could be no doubt where it came from: it must be from something in
that room. What could it be? She was rather afraid, but her curiosity
was stronger than her fear, and she opened the door very gently and
peeped in. What do you think she saw? A very old lady who sat spinning
Perhaps you will wonder how the princess could tell that the old lady
was an old lady, when I inform you that not only was she beautiful, but
her skin was smooth and white. I will tell you more. Her hair was combed
back from her forehead and face, and hung loose far down and all over
her back. That is not much like an old lady -- is it? Ah! but it was white
almost as snow. And although her face was so smooth, her eyes looked so
wise that you could not have helped seeing she must be old. The
princess, though she could not have told you why, did think her very old
indeed -- quite fifty -- she said to herself. But she was rather older than
that, as you shall hear.

While the princess stared bewildered, with her head just inside the
door, the old lady lifted hers, and said in a sweet, but old and rather
shaky voice, which mingled very pleasantly with the continued hum of her
wheel
That the princess was a real princess, you might see now quite plainly;
for she didn't hang on to the handle of the door, and stare without
moving, as I have known some do who ought to have been princesses, but
were only rather vulgar little girls. She did as she was told, stepped
inside the door at once, and shut it gently behind her
said the old lady.

And again the princess did as she was told. She approached the old
lady -- rather slowly, I confess, but did not stop until she stood by her
side, and looked up in her face with her blue eyes and the two melted
stars in them
asked the old
lady
answered the princess
said the old lady.

Then she stopped her wheel, and rose, and, going out of the room,
returned with a little silver basin and a soft white towel, with which
she washed and wiped the bright little face. And the princess thought
her hands were so smooth and nice!

When she carried away the basin and towel, the little princess wondered
to see how straight and tall she was, for, although she was so old, she
didn't stoop a bit. She was dressed in black velvet with thick white
heavy-looking lace about it; and on the black dress her hair shone like
silver. There was hardly any more furniture in the room than there might
have been in that of the poorest old woman who made her bread by her
spinning. There was no carpet on the floor -- no table anywhere -- nothing
but the spinning-wheel and the chair beside it. When she came back, she
sat down again, and without a word began her spinning once more, while
Irene, who had never seen a spinning-wheel, stood by her side and looked
on. When the old lady had succeeded in getting her thread fairly in
operation again, she said to the princess, but without looking at her
answered the princess
cried the princess
asked the princess, bewildered
said the princess
said the old lady
said the lady
asked the princess
said the princess
answered the princess
the lady went on
said the princess
She clapped her hands with delight, and up rose such a
flapping of wings.&rsqb;

Again she stopped her spinning. She rose, took the princess by the hand,
led her out of the room, and opened the door opposite the stair. The
princess expected to see a lot of hens and chickens, but instead of
that, she saw the blue sky first, and then the roofs of the house, with
a multitude of the loveliest pigeons, mostly white, but of all colors,
walking about, making bows to each other, and talking a language she
could not understand. She clapped her hands with delight, and up rose
such a flapping of wings, that she in her turn was startled
said the old lady, smiling
said the princess, smiling too
said the princess
The lady took hold of a little loop of string in the wall at the side of
the door, and lifting a shutter showed a great many pigeon-holes with
nests, some with young ones and some with eggs in them. The birds came
in at the other side, and she took out the eggs on this side. She closed
it again quickly, lest the young ones should be frightened
cried the princess
answered the princess
said the old lady with a curious smile
The little princess put her hand in the old lady's, who, looking this
way and that, brought her to the top of the first stair, and thence to
the bottom of the second, and did not leave her till she saw her half
way down the third. When she heard the cry of her nurse's pleasure at
finding her, she turned and walked up the stairs again, very fast indeed
for such a very great grandmother, and sat down to her spinning with
another strange smile on her sweet old face.

About this spinning of hers I will tell you more next time.

Guess what she was spinning
asked the nurse, taking her in
her arms
Here she checked herself
asked the princess
she answered
said the princess
asked the nurse, who thought she was making
fun
said the nurse
returned Irene, rather offended
remarked the nurse
said the nurse
said the nurse
said the nurse, who did not believe
a word Irene was saying
exclaimed the princess, astonished and
angry, as well she might be
asked the nurse coldly
she
added, seeing that the child was strangely in earnest.

The princess burst into tears
remarked the nurse, now thoroughly vexed with her
for crying
The princess wiped her eyes, and her face grew so hot that they were
soon quite dry. She sat down to her dinner, but ate next to nothing. Not
to be believed does not at all agree with princesses; for a real
princess cannot tell a lie. So all the afternoon she did not speak a
word. Only when the nurse spoke to her, she answered her, for a real
princess is never rude -- even when she does well to be offended.

Of course the nurse was not comfortable in her mind -- not that she
suspected the least truth in Irene's story, but that she loved her
dearly, and was vexed with herself for having been cross to her. She
thought her crossness was the cause of the princess' unhappiness, and
had no idea that she was really and deeply hurt at not being believed.
But, as it became more and more plain during the evening in every motion
and look, that, although she tried to amuse herself with her toys, her
heart was too vexed and troubled to enjoy them, her nurse's discomfort
grew and grew. When bedtime came, she undressed and laid her down, but
the child, instead of holding up her little mouth to be kissed, turned
away from her and lay still. Then nursie's heart gave way altogether,
and she began to cry. At the sound of her first sob, the princess
turned again, and held her face to kiss her as usual. But the nurse had
her handkerchief to her eyes, and did not see the movement
said the princess
said the nurse, getting angry again
said Irene
cried the nurse, and caught her out of bed, and
walked about the room with her in her arms, kissing and hugging her
said the princess, as she laid her down again
said the nurse, and put her
handkerchief to her eyes again
said the nurse
The princess turned away once more, and again the nurse was ashamed of
herself
she said, though still in an
offended tone. But the princess let the tone pass, and heeded only the
words
she answered, once more turning
toward her nurse
repeated the nurse, again embracing her
insisted Irene
she answered; and in
two minutes the weary little princess was fast asleep
WHEN she woke the next morning, the first thing she heard was the rain
still falling. Indeed, this day was so like the last, that it would have
been difficult to tell where was the use of it. The first thing she
thought of, however, was not the rain, but the lady in the tower; and
the first question that occupied her thoughts was whether she should not
ask the nurse to fulfill her promise this very morning, and go with her
to find her grandmother as soon as she had had her breakfast. But she
came to the conclusion that perhaps the lady would not be pleased if she
took anyone to see her without first asking leave; especially as it was
pretty evident, seeing she lived on pigeons' eggs, and cooked them
herself, that she did not want the household to know she was there. So
the princess resolved to take the first opportunity of running up alone
and asking whether she might bring her nurse. She believed the fact that
she could not otherwise convince her she was telling the truth, would
have much weight with her grandmother.

The princess and her nurse were the best of friends all dressing time,
and the princess in consequence ate an enormous little breakfast
that was her pet-name for her nurse
she said, as she was eating her egg -- not quite a
common one, for they always picked out the pinky ones for her
said
the nurse
returned Irene, suddenly reflecting they might disturb the
old lady in getting it, and that even if they did not, she would have
one less in consequence
said the nurse
But she did not say it crossly, and the princess never minded any
remarks that were not unfriendly
she returned, and said no
more, for she did not want to bring up the subject of their former
strife, lest her nurse should offer to go before she had had her
grandmother's permission to bring her. Of course she could refuse to
take her, but then she would believe her less than ever.

Now the nurse, as she said herself afterward, could not be every moment
in the room, and as never before yesterday had the princess given her
the smallest reason for anxiety, it had not yet come into her head to
watch her more closely. So she soon gave her a chance, and the very
first that offered, Irene was off and up the stairs again.

This day's adventure, however, did not turn out like yesterday's,
although it began like it; and indeed to-day is very seldom like
yesterday, if people would note the differences -- even when it rains. The
princess ran through passage after passage, and could not find the stair
of the tower. My own suspicion is that she had not gone up high enough,
and was searching on the second instead of the third floor. When she
turned to go back, she failed equally in her search after the stair. She
was lost once more.

Something made it even worse to bear this time, and it was no wonder
that she cried again. Suddenly it occurred to her that it was after
having cried before that she had found her grandmother's stair. She got
up at once, wiped her eyes, and started upon a fresh quest. This time,
although she did not find what she hoped, she found what was next best:
she did not come on a stair that went up, but she came upon one that
went down. It was evidently not the stair she had come up, yet it was a
good deal better than none; so down she went, and was singing merrily
before she reached the bottom. There, to her surprise, she found herself
in the kitchen. Although she was not allowed to go there alone, her
nurse had often taken her, and she was a great favorite with the
servants. So there was a general rush at her the moment she appeared,
for every one wanted to have her; and the report of where she was soon
reached the nurse's ears. She came at once to fetch her; but she never
suspected how she had got there, and the princess kept her own counsel.

Her failure to find the old lady not only disappointed her, but made her
very thoughtful. Sometimes she came almost to the nurse's opinion that
she had dreamed all about her; but that fancy never lasted very long.
She wondered much whether she should ever see her again, and thought it
very sad not to have been able to find her when she particularly wanted
her. She resolved to say nothing more to her nurse on the subject,
seeing it was so little in her power to prove her words
THE next day the great cloud still hung over the mountain, and the rain
poured like water from a full sponge. The princess was very fond of
being out of doors, and she nearly cried when she saw that the weather
was no better. But the mist was not of such a dark dingy gray; there was
light in it; and as the hours went on, it grew brighter and brighter,
until it was almost too brilliant to look at; and late in the afternoon,
the sun broke out so gloriously that Irene clapped her hands, crying
Lootie was very glad to please the princess. She got her hat and cloak,
and they set out together for a walk up the mountain; for the road was
so hard and steep that the water could not rest upon it, and it was
always dry enough for walking a few minutes after the rain ceased. The
clouds were rolling away in broken pieces, like great, overwoolly sheep,
whose wool the sun had bleached till it was almost too white for the
eyes to bear. Between them the sky shone with a deeper and purer blue,
because of the rain. The trees on the road-side were hung all over with
drops, which sparkled in the sun like jewels. The only things that were
no brighter for the rain, were the brooks that ran down the mountain;
they had changed from the clearness of crystal to a muddy brown; but
what they lost in color they gained in sound -- or at least in noise, for
a brook when it is swollen is not so musical as before. But Irene was in
raptures with the great brown streams tumbling down everywhere; and
Lootie shared in her delight, for she too had been confined to the house
for three days. At length she observed that the sun was getting low, and
said it was time to be going back. She made the remark again and again,
but, every time, the princess begged her to go on just a little farther
and a little farther; reminding her that it was much easier to go down
hill, and saying that when they did turn, they would be at home in a
moment. So on and on they did go, now to look at a group of ferns over
whose tops a stream was pouring in a watery arch, now to pick a shining
stone from a rock by the wayside, now to watch the flight of some bird.
Suddenly the shadow of a great mountain peak came up from behind, and
shot in front of them. When the nurse saw it, she started and shook, and
tremulously grasping the hand of the princess turned and began to run
down the hill
asked Irene, running alongside of her
It was too true. The nurse almost cried. They were much too far from
home. It was against express orders to be out with the princess one
moment after the sun was down; and they were nearly a mile up the
mountain! If his Majesty, Irene's papa, were to hear of it, Lootie
would certainly be dismissed; and to leave the princess would break her
heart. It was no wonder she ran. But Irene was not in the least
frightened, not knowing anything to be frightened at. She kept on
chattering as well as she could, but it was not easy
said Lootie.

But the princess went on talking. She was always saying
but Lootie paid no more heed to anything she said, only ran on
Lootie only ran the faster. They had to pass the rock and when they came
nearer, the princess clearly saw that it was only a large fragment of
the rock itself that she had mistaken for a man
Lootie gave a stifled cry, and ran faster still -- so fast, that Irene's
little legs could not keep up with her, and she fell with a clash. It
was a hard down-hill road, and she had been running very fast -- so it was
no wonder she began to cry. This put the nurse nearly beside herself;
but all she could do was to run on, the moment she got the princess on
her feet again
said the princess, trying to keep in her
sobs, and running too fast for her grazed knees
said the nurse, almost angrily.

But that instant there came a burst of coarse tittering from somewhere
near, and a hoarse indistinct voice that seemed to say
cried the nurse with a sigh that was almost a scream, and ran on
faster than ever
said the nurse
She caught her up; but found her much too heavy to run with, and had to
set her down again. Then she looked wildly about her, gave a great cry,
and said
The terror she was in had quite bewildered her. It was true enough they
had lost the way. They had been running down into a little valley in
which there was no house to be seen.

Now Irene did not know what good reason there was for her nurse's
terror, for the servants had all strict orders never to mention the
goblins to her, but it was very discomposing to see her nurse in such a
fright. Before, however, she had time to grow thoroughly alarmed like
her, she heard the sound of whistling, and that revived her. Presently
she saw a boy coming up the road from the valley to meet them. He was
the whistler; but before they met, his whistling changed to singing. And
this is something like what he sang
said the nurse rudely, for the
very word goblin at such a time and in such a place made her tremble. It
would bring the goblins upon them to a certainty, she thought, to defy
them in that way. But whether the boy heard her or not, he did not stop
his singing
cried the nurse, in a whispered shriek. But the boy, who
was now close at hand, still went on
said the boy, as he stood still opposite them
The boy was dressed in a miner's dress, with a curious cap on his head.
He was a very nice-looking boy, with eyes as dark as the mines in which
he worked, and as sparkling as the crystals in their rocks. He was about
twelve years old. His face was almost too pale for beauty, which came of
his being so little in the open air and the sunlight -- for even
vegetables grown in the dark are white; but he looked happy, merry
indeed -- perhaps at the thought of having routed the goblins; and his
bearing as he stood before them had nothing clownish or rude about it
he went on
asked the nurse, offended at the freedom with which
he spoke to them
asked Irene, with a trembling voice
said the nurse
repeated the little miner, taking off his curious cap
said the nurse, beginning to cry again
said the boy
cried the princess
said the nurse to the boy, almost fiercely
said the boy
murmured the nurse, but she did not say it aloud, for
she thought if she made him angry, he might take his revenge by telling
some one belonging to the house, and then it would be sure to come to
the king's ears
said Irene
They soon had her between them, holding a hand of each
said the nurse
said the little miner
said Irene
said the nurse
The nurse was comforted at hearing this, and said no more. They went on,
walking pretty fast, but taking care not to run a step
said Irene to the little miner
said the nurse indignantly
said Curdie, with a glance at the nurse which showed he
enjoyed teasing her
He expected the nurse to interfere again; but he soon saw that she was
too frightened to speak. She was staring at something a few yards before
them, in the middle of the path, where it narrowed between rocks so that
only one could pass at a time
said Irene
said Curdie
gasped the nurse
said Curdie
said the princess.

The nurse gave her a great pull by the hand she held. But at that
instant the something in the middle of the way, which had looked like a
great lump of earth brought down by the rain, began to move. One after
another it shot out four long things, like two arms and two legs, but it
was now too dark to tell what they were. The nurse began to tremble from
head to foot. Irene clasped Curdie's hand yet faster, and Curdie began
to sing again
As he uttered the last words, Curdie let go his hold of his companion,
and rushed at the thing in the road, as if he would trample it under
his feet. It gave a great spring, and ran straight up one of the rocks
like a huge spider. Curdie turned back laughing, and took Irene's hand
again. She grasped his very tight, but said nothing till they had passed
the rocks. A few yards more and she found herself on a part of the road
she knew, and was able to speak again
he said
she said
answered Curdie
said the nurse
said Curdie
Nothing more happened. They reached home in safety. Nobody had missed
them, or even known they had gone out; and they arrived at the door
belonging to their part of the house without anyone seeing them. The
nurse was rushing in with a hurried and not over-gracious good-night to
Curdie; but the princess pulled her hand from hers, and was just
throwing her arms around Curdie's neck, when she caught her again and
dragged her away
cried Irene
said
Lootie
said the princess
said Lootie, suddenly growing very respectful
said Irene, drawing
herself up and standing stockstill.

Lootie did not know which the king might count the worst -- to let the
princess be out after sunset, or to let her kiss a miner-boy. She did
not know that, being a gentleman, as many kings have been, he would have
counted neither of them the worse. However much he might have disliked
his daughter to kiss the miner-boy, he would not have had her break her
word for all the goblins in creation. But, as I say, the nurse was not
lady enough to understand this, and so she was in a great difficulty,
for, if she insisted, some one might hear the princess cry and run to
see, and then all would come out. But here Curdie came again to the
rescue
he said
said the princess, and stopped crying
said Curdie, and turned and was
out of sight in a moment
muttered the nurse, as she carried the
princess to the nursery
said Irene
repeated the nurse, and said no more. She
did not want to open a new cause of strife with the princess by saying
more plainly what she meant. Glad enough that she had succeeded both in
getting home unseen, and in keeping the princess from kissing the
miner's boy, she resolved to watch her far better in future. Her
carelessness had already doubled the danger she was in. Formerly the
goblins were her only fear; now she had to protect her charge from
Curdie as well
CURDIE went home whistling. He resolved to say nothing about the
princess for fear of getting the nurse into trouble, for while he
enjoyed teasing her because of her absurdity, he was careful not to do
her any harm. He saw no more of the goblins, and was soon fast asleep in
his bed.

He woke in the middle of the night, and thought he heard curious noises
outside. He sat up and listened; then got up, and, opening the door very
quietly, went out. When he peeped round the corner, he saw, under his
own window, a group of stumpy creatures, whom he at once recognized by
their shape. Hardly, however, had he begun his
when
they broke asunder, scurried away, and were out of sight. He returned
laughing, got into bed again, and was fast asleep in a moment.

Reflecting a little over the matter in the morning, he came to the
conclusion that, as nothing of the kind had ever happened before, they
must be annoyed with him for interfering to protect the princess. By the
time he was dressed, however, he was thinking of something quite
different, for he did not value the enmity of the goblins in the least.

As soon as they had had breakfast, he set off with his father for the
mine.

They entered the hill by a natural opening under a huge rock, where a
little stream rushed out. They followed its course for a few yards,
when the passage took a turn, and sloped steeply into the heart of the
hill. With many angles and windings and branchings off, and sometimes
with steps where it came upon a natural gulf, it led them deep into the
hill before they arrived at the place where they were at present digging
out the precious ore. This was of various kinds, for the mountain was
very rich with the better sorts of metals. With flint and steel, and
tinder box, they lighted their lamps, then fixed them on their heads,
and were soon hard at work with their pickaxes and shovels and hammers.
Father and son were at work near each other, but not in the same
_gang_ -- the passages out of which the ore was dug, they called
_gangs_ -- for when the _lode_, or vein of ore, was small, one miner would
have to dig away alone in a passage no bigger than gave him just room to
work -- sometimes in uncomfortable cramped positions. If they stopped for
a moment they could hear everywhere around them, some nearer, some
farther off, the sounds of their companions burrowing away in all
directions in the inside of the great mountain -- some boring holes in the
rock in order to blow it up with gunpowder, others shoveling the broken
ore into baskets to be carried to the mouth of the mine, others hitting
away with their pickaxes. Sometimes, if the miner was in a very lonely
part, he would hear only a tap-tapping, no louder than that of a
woodpecker, for the sound would come from a great distance off through
the solid mountain rock.

The work was hard at best, for it is very warm underground; but it was
not particularly unpleasant, and some of the miners, when they wanted to
earn a little more money for a particular purpose, would stop behind
the rest, and work all night. But you could not tell night from day down
there, except from feeling tired and sleepy; for no light of the sun
ever came into those gloomy regions. Some who had thus remained behind
during the night, although certain there were none of their companions
at work, would declare the next morning that they heard, every time they
halted for a moment to take breath, a tap-tapping all about them, as if
the mountain were then more full of miners than ever it was during the
day; and some in consequence would never stay over night, for all knew
those were the sounds of the goblins. They worked only at night, for the
miners' night was the goblins' day. Indeed, the greater number of the
miners were afraid of the goblins: for there were strange stories well
known amongst them of the treatment some had received whom the goblins
had surprised at their work during the night. The more courageous of
them, however, amongst them Peter Peterson and Curdie, who in this took
after his father, had stayed in the mine all night again and again, and
although they had several times encountered a few stray goblins, had
never yet failed in driving them away. As I have indicated already, the
chief defence against them was verse, for they hated verse of every
kind, and some kinds they could not endure at all. I suspect they could
not make any themselves, and that was why they disliked it so much. At
all events, those who were most afraid of them were those who could
neither make verses themselves, nor remember the verses that other
people made for them; while those who were never afraid were those who
could make verses for themselves; for although there were certain old
rhymes which were very effectual, yet it was well known that a new
rhyme, if of the right sort, was even more distasteful to them, and
therefore more effectual in putting them to flight.

Perhaps my readers may be wondering what the goblins could be about,
working all night long, seeing they never carried up the ore and sold
it; but when I have informed them concerning what Curdie learned the
very next night, they will be able to understand.

For Curdie had determined, if his father would permit him, to remain
there alone this night -- and that for two reasons: first, he wanted to
get extra wages in order that he might buy a very warm red petticoat for
his mother, who had begun to complain of the cold of the mountain air
sooner than usual this autumn; and second, he had just a faint
glimmering of hope of finding out what the goblins were about under his
window the night before.

When he told his father, he made no objection, for he had great
confidence in his boy's courage and resources
said Peter
said Curdie
Curdie was the only one who remained in the mine. About six o'clock the
rest went away, every one bidding him good night, and telling him to
take care of himself; for he was a great favorite with them all
said one
answered Curdie
said another
said another
said Curdie
they returned, and left him
FOR some time Curdie worked away briskly, throwing all the ore he had
disengaged on one side behind him, to be ready for carrying out in the
morning. He heard a good deal of goblin-tapping, but it all sounded far
away in the hill, and he paid it little heed. Toward midnight he began
to feel rather hungry; so he dropped his pickaxe, got a lump of bread
which in the morning he had laid in a damp hole in the rock, sat down on
a heap of ore and ate his supper. Then he leaned back for five minutes'
rest before beginning his work again, and laid his head against the
rock. He had not kept the position for one minute before he heard
something which made him sharpen his ears. It sounded like a voice
inside the rock. After a while he heard it again. It was a
goblin-voice -- there could be no doubt about that -- and this time he could
make out the words
it said.

A rougher and deeper voice replied
said
the first voice
said the goblin, tapping the very
stone, as it seemed to Curdie, against which his head lay
said a third voice
said the
first voice, which was evidently that of the mother of the family
said the other
A horrid scream followed, which Curdie interpreted as in reply to a blow
from his mother upon the feet of her eldest goblin
remarked a fourth voice
said the father
He dropped his voice so low that Curdie could hear only a growl. The
growl went on in a low bass for a good while, as inarticulate as if the
goblin's tongue had been a sausage; and it was not until his wife spoke
again that it rose to its former pitch
she asked
After this arose a confused conversation about the various household
goods and their transport; and Curdie heard nothing more that was of any
importance.

He now knew at least one of the reasons for the constant sound of the
goblin hammers and pickaxes at night. They were making new houses for
themselves, to which they might retreat when the miners should threaten
to break into their dwellings. But he had learned two things of far
greater importance. The first was, that some grievous calamity was
preparing, and almost ready to fall upon the heads of the miners; the
second was -- the one weak point of a goblin's body: he had not known that
their feet were so tender as he had now reason to suspect. He had heard
it said that they had no toes: he had never had opportunity of
inspecting them closely enough in the dusk in which they always
appeared, to satisfy himself whether it was a correct report. Indeed, he
had not been able even to satisfy himself as to whether they had no
fingers, although that also was commonly said to be the fact. One of the
miners, indeed, who had had more schooling than the rest, was wont to
argue that such must have been the primordial condition of humanity, and
that education and handicraft had developed both toes and fingers -- with
which proposition Curdie had once heard his father sarcastically agree,
alleging in support of it the probability that babies' gloves were a
traditional remnant of the old state of things; while the stockings of
all ages, no regard being paid in them to the toes, pointed in the same
direction. But what was of importance was the fact concerning the
softness of the goblin-feet, which he foresaw might be useful to all
miners. What he had to do in the mean time, however, was to discover, if
possible, the special evil design the goblins had now in their heads.

Although he knew all the gangs and all the natural galleries with which
they communicated in the mined part of the mountain, he had not the
least idea where the palace of the king of the gnomes was; otherwise he
would have set out at once on the enterprise of discovering what the
said design was. He judged, and rightly, that it must lie in a farther
part of the mountain, between which and the mine there was as yet no
communication. There must be one nearly completed, however; for it could
be but a thin partition which now separated them. If only he could get
through in time to follow the goblins as they retreated! A few blows
would doubtless be sufficient -- just where his ear now lay; but if he
attempted to strike there with his pickaxe, he would only hasten the
departure of the family, put them on their guard, and perhaps lose their
involuntary guidance. He therefore began to feel the wall with his
hands, and soon found that some of the stones were loose enough to be
drawn out with little noise.

Laying hold of a large one with both his hands, he drew it gently out,
and let it down softly
said the goblin father.

Curdie blew out his light, lest it should shine through
said the
mother
Curdie kept quite still. After a little while, hearing nothing but the
sounds of their preparations for departure, mingled with an occasional
word of direction, and anxious to know whether the removal of the stone
had made an opening into the goblins' house, he put in his hand to feel.
It went in a good way, and then came in contact with something soft. He
had but a moment to feel it over, it was so quickly withdrawn: it was
one of the toeless goblin-feet. The owner of it gave a cry of fright
asked his mother
said his father
Curdie suppressed his laughter, and lay still as a mouse -- but no
stiller, for every moment he kept nibbling away with his fingers at the
edges of the hole. He was slowly making it bigger, for here the rock had
been very much shattered with the blasting.

There seemed to be a good many in the family, to judge from the mass of
confused talk which now and then came through the hole; but when all
were speaking together, and just as if they had bottle-brushes -- each at
least one -- in their throats, it was not easy to make out much that was
said. At length he heard once more what the father-goblin was saying
he said
Curdie could hardly keep himself from calling through to know whether
they made the fire to light their torches by. But a moment's reflection
showed him that they would have said they did, inasmuch as they struck
two stones together, and the fire came
A SOUND of many soft feet followed, but soon ceased. Then Curdie flew at
the hole like a tiger, and tore and pulled. The sides gave way, and it
was soon large enough for him to crawl through. He would not betray
himself by rekindling his lamp, but the torches of the retreating
company, departing in a straight line up a long avenue from the door of
their cave, threw back light enough to afford him a glance round the
deserted home of the goblins. To his surprise, he could discover nothing
to distinguish it from an ordinary cave in the rock, upon many of which
he had come with the rest of the miners in the progress of their
excavations. The goblins had talked of coming back for the rest of their
household gear: he saw nothing that would have made him suspect a family
had taken shelter there for a single night. The floor was rough and
stony; the walls full of projecting corners; the roof in one place
twenty feet high, in another endangering his forehead; while on one side
a stream, no thicker than a needle, it is true, but still sufficient to
spread a wide dampness over the wall, flowed down the face of the rock.
But the troop in front of him was toiling under heavy burdens. He could
distinguish Helfer now and then, in the flickering light and shade, with
his heavy chest on his bending shoulders; while the second brother was
almost buried in what looked like a great feather-bed
thought Curdie; but in a moment the troop disappeared
at a turn of the way, and it was now both safe and necessary for Curdie
to follow them, lest they should be round the next turning before he saw
them again, for so he might lose them altogether. He darted after them
like a grayhound. When he reached the corner and looked cautiously
round, he saw them again at some distance down another long passage.
None of the galleries he saw that night bore signs of the work of
man -- or of goblin either. Stalactites far older than the mines hung from
their roofs; and their floors were rough with boulders and large round
stones, showing that there water must have once run. He waited again at
this corner till they had disappeared round the next, and so followed
them a long way through one passage after another. The passages grew
more and more lofty, and were more and more covered in the roof with
shining stalactites.

It was a strange enough procession which he followed. But the strangest
part of it was the household animals which crowded amongst the feet of
the goblins. It was true they had no wild animals down there -- at least
they did not know of any; but they had a wonderful number of tame ones.
I must, however, reserve any contributions toward the natural history of
these for a later position in my story.

At length, turning a corner too abruptly, he had almost rushed into the
middle of the goblin family; for there they had already set down all
their burdens on the floor of a cave considerably larger than that which
they had left. They were as yet too breathless to speak, else he would
have had warning of their arrest. He started back, however, before any
one saw him, and retreating a good way, stood watching till the father
should come out to go to the palace. Before very long, both he and his
son Helfer appeared and kept on in the same direction as before, while
Curdie followed them again with renewed precaution. For a long time he
heard no sound except something like the rush of a river inside the
rock; but at length what seemed the far-off noise of a great shouting
reached his ears, which however presently ceased. After advancing a good
way farther, he thought he heard a single voice. It sounded clearer and
clearer as he went on, until at last he could almost distinguish the
words. In a moment or two, keeping after the goblins round another
corner, he once more started back -- this time in amazement.

He was at the entrance of a magnificent cavern, of an oval shape, once
probably a huge natural reservoir of water, now the great palace hall of
the goblins. It rose to a tremendous height, but the roof was composed
of such shining materials, and the multitude of torches carried by the
goblins who crowded the floor lighted up the place so brilliantly, that
Curdie could see to the top quite well. But he had no idea how immense
the place was, until his eyes had got accustomed to it, which was not
for a good many minutes. The rough projections on the walls, and the
shadows thrown upward from them by the torches, made the sides of the
chamber look as if they were crowded with statues upon brackets and
pedestals, reaching in irregular tiers from floor to roof. The walls
themselves were, in many parts, of gloriously shining substances, some
of them gorgeously colored besides, which powerfully contrasted with
the shadows. Curdie could not help wondering whether his rhymes would be
of any use against such a multitude of goblins as filled the floor of
the hall, and indeed felt considerably tempted to begin his shout of
_One, two, three!_ but as there was no reason for routing them, and much
for endeavoring to discover their designs, he kept himself perfectly
quiet, and peeping round the edge of the doorway, listened with both his
sharp ears.

At the other end of the hall, high above the heads of the multitude, was
a terrace-like ledge of considerable height, caused by the receding of
the upper part of the cavern wall. Upon this sat the king and his court,
the king on a throne hollowed out of a huge block of green copper ore,
and his court upon lower seats around it. The king had been making them
a speech, and the applause which followed it was what Curdie had heard.
One of the court was now addressing the multitude. What he heard him say
was to the following effect
cried a voice close by the door, which
Curdie recognized as that of the goblin he had followed
cried another from near the
throne
answered several voices
said the king himself, in a slow and stately
voice
A lane was parted through the crowd, and Glump having ascended the
platform and bowed to the king, spoke as follows
thought Curdie to himself
He ceased, and the king graciously acknowledged his speech with a bend
of his head; whereupon Glump, after a bow to his Majesty, slid down
amongst the rest of the undistinguished multitude. Then the Chancellor
rose and resumed
he said
Curdie perceiving that the assembly was drawing to a close, and that
there was little chance of either plan being more fully discovered, now
thought it prudent to make his escape before the goblins began to
disperse, and slipped quietly away.

There was not much danger of meeting any goblins, for all the men at
least were left behind him in the palace; but there was considerable
danger of his taking a wrong turning, for he had now no light, and had
therefore to depend upon his memory and his hands. After he had left
behind him the glow that issued from the door of Glump's new abode, he
was utterly without guide, so far as his eyes were concerned.

He was most anxious to get back through the hole before the goblins
should return to fetch the remains of their furniture. It was not that
he was in the least afraid of them, but, as it was of the utmost
importance that he should thoroughly discover what the plans they were
cherishing were, he must not occasion the slightest suspicion that they
were watched by a miner.

He hurried on, feeling his way along the walls of rock. Had he not been
very courageous, he must have been very anxious, for he could not but
know that if he lost his way it would be the most difficult thing in the
world to find it again. Morning would bring no light into these regions;
and toward him least of all, who was known as a special rhymster and
persecutor, could goblins be expected to exercise courtesy? Well might
he wish that he had brought his lamp and tinder-box with him, of which
he had not thought when he crept so eagerly after the goblins! He wished
it all the more when, after a while, he found his way blocked up, and
could get no farther. It was of no use to turn back, for he had not the
least idea where he had begun to go wrong. Mechanically, however, he
kept feeling about the walls that hemmed him in. His hand came upon a
place where a tiny stream of water was running down the face of the
rock
he said to himself
he added, as the red glimmer of their torches appeared at the
end of the long avenue that led up to the cave. In a moment he had
thrown himself on the floor, and wriggled backward through the hole. The
floor on the other side was several feet lower, which made it easier to
get back. It was all he could do to lift the largest stone he had taken
out of the hole, but he did manage to shove it in again. He sat down on
the ore-heap and thought.

He was pretty sure that the latter plan of the goblins was to inundate
the mine by breaking outlets for the water accumulated in the natural
reservoirs of the mountain, as well as running through portions of it.
While the part hollowed by the miners remained shut off from that
inhabited by the goblins, they had had no opportunity of injuring them
thus; but now that a passage was broken through, and the goblins' part
proved the higher in the mountain, it was clear to Curdie that the mine
could be destroyed in an hour. Water was always the chief danger to
which the miners were exposed. They met with a little choke-damp
sometimes, but never with the explosive fire-damp so common in coal
mines. Hence they were careful as soon as they saw any appearance of
water.

As the result of his reflections while the goblins were busy in their
old home, it seemed to Curdie that it would be best to build up the
whole of this gang, filling it with stone, and clay or lime, so that
there should be no smallest channel for the water to get into. There was
not, however, any immediate danger, for the execution of the goblins'
plan was contingent upon the failure of that unknown design which was to
take precedence of it; and he was most anxious to keep the door of
communication open, that he might if possible discover what that former
plan was. At the same time they could not then resume their intermitted
labors for the inundation without his finding it out; when by putting
all hands to the work, the one existing outlet might in a single night
be rendered impenetrable to any weight of water; for by filling the gang
entirely up, their embankment would be buttressed by the sides of the
mountain itself.

As soon as he found that the goblins had again retired, he lighted his
lamp, and proceeded to fill the hole he had made with such stones as he
could withdraw when he pleased. He then thought it better, as he might
have occasion to be up a good many nights after this, to go home and
have some sleep.

How pleasant the night-air felt upon the outside of the mountain after
what he had gone through in the inside of it! He hurried up the hill,
without meeting a single goblin on the way, and called and tapped at the
window until he woke his father, who soon rose and let him in. He told
him the whole story, and, just as he had expected, his father thought it
best to work that lode no farther, but at the same time to pretend
occasionally to be at work there still, in order that the goblins might
have no suspicions. Both father and son then went to bed, and slept
soundly until the morning
THE weather continued fine for weeks, and the little princess went out
every day. So long a period of fine weather had indeed never been known
upon that mountain. The only uncomfortable thing was that her nurse was
so nervous and particular about being in before the sun was down, that
often she would take to her heels when nothing worse than a fleecy cloud
crossing the sun threw a shadow on the hillside; and many an evening
they were home a full hour before the sunlight had left the weathercock
on the stables. If it had not been for such behavior, Irene would by
this time have almost forgotten the goblins. She never forgot Curdie,
but him she remembered for his own sake, and indeed would have
remembered him if only because a princess never forgets her debts until
they are paid.

&lsqb;In an instant she was on the saddle, and clasped in his
great strong arms.&rsqb;

One splendid sunshiny day, about an hour after noon, Irene, who was
playing on a lawn in the garden, heard the distant blast of a bugle. She
jumped up with a cry of joy, for she knew by that particular blast that
her father was on his way to see her. This part of the garden lay on the
slope of the hill, and allowed a full view of the country below. So she
shaded her eyes with her hand, and looked far away to catch the first
glimpse of shining armor. In a few moments a little troop came
glittering round the shoulder of a hill. Spears and helmets were
sparkling and gleaming, banners were flying, horses prancing, and
again came the bugle-blast, which was to her like the voice of her
father calling across the distance
On and on they
came, until she could clearly distinguish the king. He rode a white
horse, and was taller than any of the men with him. He wore a narrow
circle of gold set with jewels around his helmet, and as he came still
nearer, Irene could discern the flashing of the stones in the sun. It
was a long time since he had been to see her, and her little heart beat
faster and faster as the shining troop approached, for she loved her
king-papa very dearly, and was nowhere so happy as in his arms. When
they reached a certain point, after which she could see them no more
from the garden, she ran to the gate, and there stood till up they came
clanging and stamping, with one more bright bugle-blast which said
By this time the people of the house were all gathered at the gate, but
Irene stood alone in front of them. When the horseman pulled up, she ran
to the side of the white horse, and held up her arms. The king stooped,
and took her hands. In an instant she was on the saddle, and clasped in
his great strong arms. I wish I could describe the king, so that you
could see him in your mind. He had gentle blue eyes, but a nose that
made him look like an eagle. A long dark beard, streaked with silvery
lines, flowed from his mouth almost to his waist, and as Irene sat on
the saddle and hid her glad face upon his bosom, it mingled with the
golden hair which her mother had given her, and the two together were
like a cloud with streaks of the sun woven through it. After he had held
her to his heart for a minute, he spoke to his white horse, and the
great beautiful creature, which had been prancing so proudly a little
while before, walked as gently as a lady -- for he knew he had a little
lady on his back -- through the gate and up to the door of the house. Then
the king set her on the ground, and, dismounting, took her hand and
walked with her into the great hall, which was hardly ever entered
except when he came to see his little princess. There he sat down with
two of his councillors who had accompanied him, to have some
refreshment, and Irene bestowed herself on his right hand, and drank her
milk out of a wooden bowl curiously carved.

After the king had eaten and drunk, he turned to the princess and said,
stroking her hair
This was the question he almost always put to her first after their meal
together; and Irene had been waiting for it with some impatience, for
now, she thought, she should be able to settle a question which
constantly perplexed her
The king looked grave, and said
The king only gazed at his little princess with a look which she could
not understand
she went on
said the king very quietly
said Irene
At that moment a snow-white pigeon flew in at an open window and, with a
flutter, settled upon Irene's head. She broke into a merry laugh,
cowered a little and put up her hands to her head, saying
The king stretched out his hand to take the pigeon, but it spread its
wings and flew again through the open window, when its whiteness made
one flash in the sun and vanished. The king laid his hand on the
princess's head, held it back a little, gazed in her face, smiled half a
smile and sighed half a sigh
he said
said the princess
said the king very gently
The garden was a very lovely place. Being upon a mountain side, there
were parts in it where the rocks came through in great masses, and all
immediately about them remained quite wild. Tufts of heather grew upon
them, and other hardy mountain plants and flowers, while near them would
be lovely roses and lilies, and all pleasant garden flowers. This
mingling of the wild mountain with the civilized garden was very quaint,
and it was impossible for any number of gardeners to make such a garden
look formal and stiff.

Against one of these rocks was a garden-seat, shadowed, from the
afternoon sun by the overhanging of the rock itself. There was a little
winding path up to the top of the rock, and on the top another seat; but
they sat on the seat at its foot, because the sun was hot; and there
they talked together of many things. At length the king said
said the king
said Irene
murmured the king to himself, as he stroked
his child's head.

I cannot tell you how he had come to know. I am sure Curdie had not told
him. Some one about the palace must have seen them, after all. He sat
for a good while thinking. There was no sound to be heard except that of
a little stream which ran merrily out of an opening in the rock by where
they sat, and sped away down the hill through the garden. Then he rose,
and leaving Irene where she was, went into the house and sent for
Lootie, with whom he had a talk that made her cry.

When in the evening he rode away upon his great white horse, he left six
of his attendants behind him, with orders that three of them should
watch outside the house every night, walking round and round it from
sunset to sunrise. It was clear he was not quite comfortable about the
princess
NOTHING more happened worth telling for some time. The autumn came and
went by. There were no more flowers in the garden. The winds blew
strong, and howled among the rocks. The rain fell, and drenched the few
yellow and red leaves that could not get off the bare branches. Again
and again there would be a glorious morning followed by a pouring
afternoon, and sometimes, for a week together, there would be rain,
nothing but rain, all day, and then the most lovely cloudless night,
with the sky all out in full-blown stars -- not one missing. But the
princess could not see much of them, for she went to bed early. The
winter drew on, and she found things growing dreary. When it was too
stormy to go out, and she had got tired of her toys, Lootie would take
her about the house, sometimes to the housekeeper's room, where the
housekeeper, who was a good, kind old woman, made much of her -- sometimes
to the servants' hall or the kitchen, where she was not princess merely,
but absolute queen, and ran a great risk of being spoiled. Sometimes she
would run of herself to the room where the men-at-arms whom the king had
left, sat, and they showed her their arms and accoutrements, and did
what they could to amuse her. Still at times she found it very dreary,
and often and often wished that her huge great grandmother had not been
a dream.

One morning the nurse left her with the housekeeper for a while. To
amuse her, she turned out the contents of an old cabinet upon the table.
The little princess found her treasures, queer ancient ornaments and
many things the uses of which she could not imagine, far more
interesting than her own toys, and sat playing with them for two hours
or more. But at length, in handling a curious old-fashioned brooch, she
ran the pin of it into her thumb, and gave a little scream with the
sharpness of the pain, but would have thought little more of it, had not
the pain increased and her thumb begun to swell. This alarmed the
housekeeper greatly. The nurse was fetched; the doctor was sent for; her
hand was poulticed, and long before her usual time she was put to bed.
The pain still continued, and although she fell asleep and dreamed a
good many dreams, there was the pain always in every dream. At last it
woke her up.

The moon was shining brightly into the room. The poultice had fallen off
her hand, and it was burning hot. She fancied if she could hold it into
the moonlight, that would cool it. So she got out of bed, without waking
the nurse who lay at the other end of the room, and went to the window.
When she looked out, she saw one of the men-at-arms walking in the
garden, with the moonlight glancing on his armor. She was just going to
tap on the window and call him, for she wanted to tell him all about it,
when she bethought herself that that might wake Lootie, and she would
put her into bed again. So she resolved to go to the window of another
room, and call him from there. It was so much nicer to have somebody to
talk to than to lie awake in bed with the burning pain in her hand. She
opened the door very gently and went through the nursery, which did not
look into the garden, to go to the other window. But when she came to
the foot of the old staircase, there was the moon shining down from some
window high up, and making the worm-eaten oak look very strange and
delicate and lovely. In a moment she was putting her little feet one
after the other in the silvery path up the stair, looking behind as she
went, to see the shadow they made in the middle of the silver. Some
little girls would have been afraid to find themselves thus alone in the
middle of the night, but Irene was a princess.

As she went slowly up the stairs, not quite sure that she was not
dreaming, suddenly a great longing woke up in her heart to try once more
whether she could not find the old, old lady with the silvery hair
she said to herself
So up and up she went, stair after stair, until she came to the many
rooms -- all just as she had seen them before. Through passage after
passage she softly sped, comforting herself that if she should lose her
way it would not matter much, because when she woke she would find
herself in her own bed, with Lootie not far off. But as if she had known
every step of the way, she walked straight to the door at the foot of
the narrow stair that led to the tower
she said to herself, as she crept up the steep steps.

When she reached the top, she stood a moment listening in the dark, for
there was no moon there. Yes! it was! it was the hum of the
spinning-wheel! What a diligent grandmother to work both day and night!

She tapped gently at the door
said the sweet voice.

The princess opened the door, and entered. There was the moonlight
streaming in at the window, and in the middle of the moonlight sat the
old lady in her black dress with the white lace, and her silvery hair
mingling with the moonlight, so that you could not have distinguished
one from the other
she said again
thought Irene
she answered
said Irene, feeling very much ashamed of herself
said Irene, beginning to
cry.

The old lady smiled a sweet smile and said
All the time they talked, the old lady kept on spinning
she said
It was indeed very pretty stuff. There was a good bunch of it on the
distaff attached to the spinning-wheel, and in the moonlight it shone
like -- what shall I say it was like? It was not white enough for
silver -- yes, it was like silver, but shone gray rather than white, and
glittered only a little. And the thread the old lady drew out from it
was so fine that Irene could hardly see it
she added, looking at the bunch
said the princess, thinking to be very polite with so many
_greats_
she answered, smiling almost
merrily
The old lady rose, and left her wheel standing just as it was. You see
there was no good in putting it away, for where there was not any
furniture, there was no danger of being untidy.

Then she took Irene by the hand, but it was her bad hand, and Irene gave
a little cry of pain
said, her grandmother
Irene held her hand into the moonlight, that the old lady might see it,
and told her all about it, at which she looked grave. But she only
said
and, having led her out upon the little
dark landing, opened the door on the opposite side of it. What was
Irene's surprise to see the loveliest room she had ever seen in her
life! It was large and lofty, and dome-shaped. From the centre hung a
lamp as round as a ball, shining as if with the brightest moonlight,
which made everything visible in the room, though not so clearly that
the princess could tell what many of the things were. A large oval bed
stood in the middle, with a coverlid of rose-color, and velvet curtains
all round it of a lovely pale blue. The walls were also blue -- spangled
all over with what looked like stars of silver.

The old lady left her, and going to a strange-looking cabinet, opened it
and took out a curious silver casket. Then she sat down on a low chair,
and calling Irene, made her kneel before her, while she looked at her
hand. Having examined it, she opened the casket, and took from it a
little ointment. The sweetest odor filled the room -- like that of roses
and lilies -- as she rubbed the ointment gently all over the hot swollen
hand. Her touch was so pleasant and cool, that it seemed to drive away
the pain and heat wherever it came
said Irene
Then the old lady went to a chest of drawers, and took out a large
handkerchief of gossamer-like cambric, which she tied around her hand
she said
said Irene, and would have clapped her
hands, forgetting that she could not
said the old lady, and drew her toward her,
and kissed her on the forehead and the cheek and the mouth.

Then she got a large silver basin, and having poured some water into it,
made Irene sit on the chair, and washed her feet. This done, she was
ready for bed. And oh, what a delicious bed it was into which her
grandmother laid her! She hardly could have told she was lying upon
anything: she felt nothing but the softness. The old lady having
undressed herself, lay down beside her
asked the princess
she answered
said the old lady
said the princess
The little princess nestled close up to the old lady, who took her in
both her arms, and held her close to her bosom
said the princess
said the old lady
said the princess
said the old lady, and kissed the forehead which lay
in her bosom.

In a moment more the little princess was dreaming in the midst of the
loveliest dreams -- of summer seas and moonlight and mossy springs and
great murmuring trees, and beds of wild flowers with such odors as she
had never smelled before. But after all, no dream could be more lovely
than what she had left behind when she fell asleep.

In the morning she found herself in her own bed. There was no
handkerchief or anything else on her hand, only a sweet odor lingering
about it. The swelling had all gone down; the prick of the brooch had
vanished:-- in fact her hand was perfectly well
CURDIE spent many nights in the mine. His father and he had taken Mrs.
Peterson into the secret, for they knew mother could hold her tongue,
which was more than could be said of all the miners' wives. But Curdie
did not tell her that every night he spent in the mine, part of it went
in earning a new red petticoat for her.

Mrs. Peterson was such a nice good mother! All mothers are more or less,
but Mrs. Peterson was nice and good all _more_ and no _less_. She made a
little heaven in that poor cottage on the hillside -- for her husband and
son to go home to out of the dreary earth in which they worked. I doubt
if the princess was very much happier even in the arms of her huge
great-grandmother than Peter and Curdie were in the arms of Mrs.
Peterson. True, her hands were hard, and chapped, and large, but it was
with work for them; and therefore in the sight of the angels, her hands
were so much the more beautiful. And if Curdie worked hard to get her a
petticoat, she worked hard every day to get him comforts which he would
have missed much more than she would a new petticoat even in winter. Not
that she and Curdie ever thought of how much they worked for each other:
that would have spoiled everything.

When left alone in the mine, Curdie always worked on for an hour or two
first, following the lode which, according to Glump, would lead at last
into the deserted habitation. After that, he would set out on a
reconnoitering expedition. In order to manage this, or rather the return
from it, better than the first time, he had bought a huge ball of fine
string, having learned the trick from Hop-o'-my-Thumb, whose history his
mother had often told him. Not that Hop-o'-my-Thumb had ever used a ball
of string -- I should be sorry to be supposed so far out in my
classics -- but the principle was the same as that of the pebbles. The end
of this string he fastened to his pickaxe, which figured no bad anchor,
and then, with the ball in his hand, unrolling as he went, set out in
the dark through the natural gangs of the goblins' territory. The first
night or two he came upon nothing worth remembering; saw only a little
of the home-life of the _cobs_ in the various caves they called houses;
failed in coming upon anything to cast light upon the foregoing design
which kept the inundation for the present in the background. But at
length, I think on the third or fourth night, he found, partly guided by
the noise of their implements, a company of evidently the best sappers
and miners amongst them, hard at work. What were they about? It could
not well be the inundation, seeing that had in the meantime been
postponed to something else. Then what was it? He lurked and watched,
every now and then in the greatest risk of being detected, but without
success. He had again and again to retreat in haste, a proceeding
rendered the more difficult that he had to gather up his string as he
returned upon its course. It was not that he was afraid of the goblins,
but that he was afraid of their finding out that they were watched,
which might have prevented the discovery at which he aimed. Sometimes
his haste had to be such that, when he reached home toward morning, his
string for lack of time to wind it up as he
would be
in what seemed the most hopeless entanglement; but after a good sleep
though a short one, he always found his mother had got it right again.
There it was, wound in a most respectable ball, ready for use the moment
he should want it
he would say
she would answer
She never had more to say about it; but the less clever she was with her
words, the more clever she was with her hands; and the less his mother
said, the more, Curdie believed, she had to say.

But still he had made no discovery as to what the goblin miners were
about
ABOUT this time, the gentlemen whom the king had left behind him to
watch over the princess, had each occasion to doubt the testimony of his
own eyes, for more than strange were the objects to which they would
bear witness. They were of one sort -- creatures -- but so grotesque and
misshapen as to be more like a child's drawings upon his slate than
anything natural. They saw them only at night, while on guard about the
house. The testimony of the man who first reported having seen one of
them was that, as he was walking slowly round the house, while yet in
the shadow, he caught sight of a creature standing on its hind legs in
the moonlight, with its fore feet upon a window-ledge, staring in at the
window. Its body might have been that of a dog or wolf -- he thought, but
he declared on his honor that its head was twice the size it ought to
have been for the size of its body, and as round as a ball, while the
face, which it turned upon him as it fled, was more like one carved by a
boy upon the turnip inside which he is going to put a candle, than
anything else he could think of. It rushed into the garden. He sent an
arrow after it, and thought he must have struck it; for it gave an
unearthly howl, and he could not find his arrow any more than the beast,
although he searched all about the place where it vanished. They laughed
at him until he was driven to hold his tongue; and said he must have
taken too long a pull at the ale-jug. But before two nights were over,
he had one to side with him; for he too had seen something strange, only
quite different from that reported by the other. The description the
second man gave of the creature he had seen was yet more grotesque and
unlikely. They were both laughed at by the rest; but night after night
another came over to their side, until at last there was only one left
to laugh at all his companions. Two nights more passed, and he saw
nothing; but on the third, he came rushing from the garden to the other
two before the house, in such an agitation that they declared -- for it
was their turn now -- that the band of his helmet was cracking under his
chin with the rising of his hair inside it. Running with him into that
part of the garden which I have already described, they saw a score of
creatures, to not one of which they could give a name, and not one of
which was like another, hideous and ludicrous at once, gamboling on the
lawn in the moonlight. The supernatural or rather subnatural ugliness of
their faces, the length of legs and necks in some, and the apparent
absence of both or either in others, made the spectators, although in
one consent as to what they saw, yet doubtful, as I have said, of the
evidence of their own eyes -- and ears as well; for the noises they made,
although not loud, were as uncouth and varied as their forms, and could
be described neither as grunts nor squeaks nor roars nor howls nor barks
nor yells nor screams nor croaks nor hisses nor mews nor shrieks, but
only as something like all of them mingled in one horrible dissonance.
Keeping in the shade, the watchers had a few moments to recover
themselves before the hideous assembly suspected their presence; but all
at once, as if by common consent, they scampered off in the direction
of a great rock, and vanished before the men had come to sufficiently to
think of following them.

My readers will suspect what these were; but I will now give them full
information concerning them. They were of course household animals
belonging to the goblins, whose ancestors had taken their ancestors many
centuries before from the upper regions of light into the lower regions
of darkness. The original stocks of these horrible creatures were very
much the same as the animals now seen about farms and homes in the
country, with the exception of a few of them, which had been wild
creatures, such as foxes, and indeed wolves and small bears, which the
goblins, from their proclivity toward the animal creation, had caught
when cubs and tamed. But in the course of time, all had undergone even
greater changes than had passed upon their owners. They had
altered -- that is, their descendants had altered -- into such creatures as
I have not attempted to describe except in the vaguest manner -- the
various parts of their bodies assuming, in an apparently arbitrary and
self-willed manner, the most abnormal developments. Indeed, so little
did any distinct type predominate in some of the bewildering results,
that you could only have guessed at any known animal as the original,
and even then, what likeness remained would be more one of general
expression than of definable conformation. But what increased the
gruesomeness tenfold, was that, from constant domestic, or indeed rather
family association with the goblins, their countenances had grown in
grotesque resemblance to the human. No one understands animals who does
not see that every one of them, even amongst the fishes, it may be with
a dimness and vagueness infinitely remote, yet shadows the human: in the
case of these the human resemblance had greatly increased: while their
owners had sunk toward them, they hod risen toward their owners. But the
conditions of subterranean life being equally unnatural for both, while
the goblins were worse, the creatures had not improved by the
approximation, and its result would have appeared far more ludicrous
than consoling to the warmest lover of animal nature. I shall now
explain how it was that just then these animals began to show themselves
about the king's country house.

The goblins, as Curdie had discovered, were mining on -- at work both day
and night, in divisions, urging the scheme after which he lay in wait.
In the course of their tunneling, they had broken into the channel of a
small stream, but the break being in the top of it, no water had escaped
to interfere with their work. Some of the creatures, hovering as they
often did about their masters, had found the hole, and had, with the
curiosity which had grown to a passion from the restraints of their
unnatural circumstances, proceeded to explore the channel. The stream
was the same which ran out by the seat on which Irene and her king-papa
had sat as I have told, and the goblin-creatures found it jolly fun to
get out for a romp on a smooth lawn such as they had never seen in all
their poor miserable lives. But although they had partaken enough of the
nature of their owners to delight in annoying and alarming any of the
people whom they met on the mountain, they were of course incapable of
designs of their own, or of intentionally furthering those of their
masters.

For several nights after the men-at-arms were at length of one mind as
to the facts of the visits of some horrible creatures, whether bodily or
spectral they could not yet say, they watched with special attention
that part of the garden where they had last seen them. Perhaps indeed
they gave in consequence too little attention to the house. But the
creatures were too cunning to be easily caught; nor were the watchers
quick-eyed enough to descry the head, or the keen eyes in it, which,
from the opening whence the stream issued, would watch them in turn,
ready, the moment they left the lawn to report the place clear
DURING the whole of the week, Irene had been thinking every other moment
of her promise to the old lady, although even now she could not feel
quite sure that she had not been dreaming. Could it really be that an
old lady lived up in the top of the house with pigeons and a
spinning-wheel, and a lamp that never went out? She was, however, none
the less determined, on the coming Friday, to ascend the three stairs,
walk through the passages with the many doors, and try to find the tower
in which she had either seen or dreamed her grandmother.

Her nurse could not help wondering what had come to the child -- she would
sit so thoughtfully silent, and even in the midst of a game with her,
would so suddenly fall into a dreamy mood. But Irene took care to betray
nothing, whatever efforts Lootie might make to get at her thoughts. And
Lootie had to say to herself
and give it
up.

At length the long looked-for Friday arrived, and lest Lootie should be
moved to watch her, Irene endeavored to keep herself as quiet as
possible. In the afternoon she asked for her doll's house, and went on
arranging and rearranging the various rooms and their inhabitants for a
whole hour. Then she gave a sigh and threw herself back in her chair.
One of the dolls would not sit, and another would not stand, and they
were all very tiresome. Indeed there was one that would not even lie
down, which was too bad. But it was now getting dark, and the darker it
got the more exited Irene became, and the more she felt it necessary to
be composed
said the nurse
said Irene, wishing she had put off
going for the tea till it was darker, when she might have made her
attempt with every advantage.

I fancy Lootie was longer in returning than she had intended; for when
Irene, who had been lost in thought, looked up, she saw it was nearly
dark, and at the same moment caught sight of a pair of eyes, bright with
a green light, glowering at her through the open window. The next
instant something leaped into the room. It was like a cat, with legs as
long as a horse's, Irene said, but its body no bigger and its legs no
thicker than those of a cat. She was too frightened to cry out, but not
too frightened to jump from her chair and run from the room.

It is plain enough to every one of my readers what she ought to have
done -- and indeed Irene thought of it herself; but when she came to the
foot of the old stair, just outside the nursery door, she imagined the
creature running up those long ascents after her, and pursuing her
through the dark passages -- _which, after all, might lead to no tower!_
That thought was too much. Her heart failed her, and turning from the
stair, she rushed along to the hall, whence, finding the front-door
open, she darted into the court, pursued -- at least she thought so -- by
the creature. No one happening to see her, on she ran, unable to think
for fear, and ready to run anywhere to elude the awful creature with
the stilt-legs. Not daring to look behind her, she rushed straight out
of the gate, and up the mountain. It was foolish indeed -- thus to run
farther and farther from all who could help her, as if she had been
seeking a fit spot for the goblin-creature to eat her in at his leisure;
but that is the way fear serves us: it always takes the side of the
thing that we are afraid of.

The princess was soon out of breath with running up hill; but she ran
on, for she fancied the horrible creature just behind her, forgetting
that, had it been after her, such legs as those must have overtaken her
long ago. At last she could run no longer, and fell, unable even to
scream, by the roadside, where she lay for sometime, half dead with
terror. But finding nothing lay hold of her, and her breath beginning to
come back, she ventured at length to get half up, and peer anxiously
about her. It was now so dark that she could see nothing. Not a single
star was out. She could not even tell in what direction the house lay,
and between her and home she fancied the dreadful creature lying ready
to pounce upon her. She saw now that she ought to have run up the stairs
at once. It was well she did not scream; for, although very few of the
goblins had come out for weeks, a stray idler or two might have heard
her. She sat down upon a stone, and nobody but one who had done
something wrong could have been more miserable. She had quite forgotten
her promise to visit her grandmother. A rain-drop fell on her face. She
looked up, and for a moment her terror was lost in astonishment. At
first she thought the rising moon had left her place, and drawn nigh to
see what could be the matter with the little girl, sitting alone,
without hat or cloak, on the dark bare mountain; but she soon saw she
was mistaken, for there was no light on the ground at her feet, and no
shadow anywhere. But a great silvery globe was hanging in the air; and
as she gazed at the lovely thing, her courage revived. If she were but
indoors again she would fear nothing, not even the terrible creature
with the long legs! But how was she to find her way back? What could
that light be? Could it be --? No, it couldn't. But what if it should
be -- yes -- it must be -- her great-great-grandmother's lamp, which guided
her pigeons home through the darkest night! She jumped up: she had but
to keep that light in view, and she must find the house.

Her heart grew strong. Speedily, yet softly, she walked down the hill,
hoping to pass the watching creature unseen. Dark as it was, there was
little danger now of choosing the wrong road. And -- which was most
strange -- the light that filled her eyes from the lamp, instead of
blinding them for a moment to the object upon which they next fell,
enabled her for a moment to see it, despite the darkness. By looking at
the lamp and then dropping her eyes, she could see the road for a yard
or two in front of her, and this saved her from several falls, for the
road was very rough. But all at once, to her dismay, it vanished, and
the terror of the beast, which had left her the moment she began to
return, again laid hold of her heart. The same instant, however, she
caught the light of the windows, and knew exactly where she was. It was
too dark to run, but she made what haste she could, and reached the gate
in safety. She found the house door still open, ran through the hall,
and, without even looking into the nursery, bounded straight up the
stair, and the next, and the next; then turning to the right, ran
through the long avenue of silent rooms, and found her way at once to
the door at the foot of the tower stair.

When first the nurse missed her, she fancied she was playing her a
trick, and for some time took no trouble about her; but at last, getting
frightened, she had begun to search; and when the princess entered, the
whole household was hither and thither, over the house, hunting for her.
A few seconds after she reached the stair of the tower, they had even
begun to search the neglected rooms, in which they would never have
thought of looking had they not already searched every other place they
could think of in vain. But by this time she was knocking at the old
lady's door
said the silvery voice of her grandmother.

The princess opened the door, and peeped in. But the room was quite
dark, and there was no sound of the spinning-wheel. She grew frightened
once more, thinking that, although the room was there, the old lady
might be a dream after all. Every little girl knows how dreadful it is
to find a room empty where she thought somebody was; but Irene had to
fancy for a moment that the person she came to find was nowhere at all.
She remembered however that at night she spun only in the moonlight, and
concluded that must be why there was no sweet, bee-like humming: the old
lady might be somewhere in the darkness. Before she had time to think
another thought, she heard her voice again, saying as before
From the sound, she understood at once that she was not in the room
beside her. Perhaps she was in her bedroom. She turned across the
passage, feeling her way to the other door. When her hand fell on the
lock, again the old lady spoke
Irene wondered to hear her voice so plainly through the door; having
shut the other, she opened it and went in. Oh, what a lovely haven to
reach from the darkness and fear through which she had come! The soft
light made her feel as if she were going into the heart of the milkiest
pearl; while the blue walls and their silver stars for a moment
perplexed her with the fancy that they were in reality the sky which she
had left outside a minute ago covered with rainclouds
and she still held out her arms
said her
grandmother.

Then Irene looked again, and saw that what she had taken for a huge
bouquet of red roses on a low stand against the wall, was in fact a fire
which burned in the shapes of the loveliest and reddest roses, glowing
gorgeously between the heads and wings of two cherubs of shining silver.
And when she came nearer, she found that the smell of roses with which
the room was filled, came from the fire-roses on the hearth. Her
grandmother was dressed in the loveliest pale-blue velvet, over which
her hair, no longer white, but of a rich gold color, streamed like a
cataract, here falling in dull gathered heaps, there rushing away in
smooth shining falls. And even as she looked, the hair seemed pouring
down from her head, and vanishing in a golden mist ere it reached the
floor. It flowed from under the edge of a circle of shining silver, set
with alternated pearls and opals. On her dress was no ornament whatever,
neither was there a ring on her hand, or a necklace or carcanet about
her neck. But her slippers glimmered with the light of the Milky-way,
for they were covered with seed-pearls and opals in one mass. Her face
was that of a woman of three-and-twenty.

The princess was so bewildered with astonishment and admiration that she
could hardly thank her, and drew nigh with timidity, feeling dirty and
uncomfortable. The lady was seated on a low chair by the side of the
fire, with hands outstretched to take her, but the princess hung back
with a troubled smile
asked her grandmother
And still she held out her arms
said Irene
And still she held out her arms
With a merry little laugh, the lady sprang from her chair, more lightly
far than Irene herself could, caught the child to her bosom, and kissing
the tear-stained face over and over, sat down with her in her lap
cried Irene,
clinging to her
As she spoke she set her down, and Irene saw to her dismay that the
lovely dress was covered with the mud of her fall on the mountain road.
But the lady stooped to the fire, and taking from it, by the stalk in
her fingers, one of the burning roses, passed it once and again and a
third time over the front of her dress; and when Irene looked, not a
single stain was to be discovered
said her grandmother
But Irene again hung back, eyeing the flaming rose which the lady held
in her hand
she said, and she was about to
throw it on the hearth again
cried Irene
answered her grandmother, smiling a little sadly, as she threw the
rose from her
The princess looked, and saw a large oval tub of silver, shining
brilliantly in the light of the wonderful lamp
said the lady.

Irene went, and came back very silently, with her eyes shining
asked her grandmother
she answered
The lady smiled a pleased, satisfied smile, and was silent also for a
few moments. Then she said
answered Irene, and was
again silent for some moments thinking. Then she said
added the lady rising
Irene sat down in the low chair, and her grandmother left her, shutting
the door behind her. The child sat gazing, now at the rose-fire, now at
the starry walls, now at the silvery light; and a great quietness came
over her heart. If all the long-legged cats in the world had come
rushing helter-skelter at her then, she would not have been afraid of
them for a single moment. How this was, however, she could not
tell;-- she only knew there was no fear in her, and everything was so
right and safe that it could not get in.

She had been gazing at the lovely lamp for some minutes fixedly: turning
her eyes, she found the wall had vanished, for she was looking out on
the dark cloudy night. But though she heard the wind blowing, none of it
blew upon her. In a moment more, the clouds themselves parted, or rather
vanished like the wall, and she looked straight into the starry herds,
flashing gloriously in the dark blue. It was but for a moment. The
clouds gathered again and shut out the stars; the wall gathered again
and shut out the clouds; and there stood the lady beside her with the
loveliest smile on her face, and a shimmering ball in her hand, about
the size of a pigeon's egg
she said, holding out the ball
to the princess.

She took it in her hand, and looked at it all over. It sparkled a
little, and shone here and shone there, but not much. It was of a sort
of gray whiteness, something like spun glass
she asked
answered the lady, turning from her,
and going to her cabinet.

She came back with a small ring in her hand. Then she took the ball from
Irene's, and did something with the two -- Irene could not tell what
she said.

Irene held up her right hand
said the lady, and put the ring on the
forefinger of it
said Irene
she added,
hesitating
asked her grandmother
answered the lady smiling
So saying, the lady turned, and threw the little ball into the
rose-fire
exclaimed Irene
The lady put her hand in the fire, brought out the ball, glimmering as
before, and held it toward her. Irene stretched out her hand to take it,
but the lady turned, and going to her cabinet, opened a drawer, and laid
the ball in it
said Irene pitifully
Irene looked at the ring
she said
said the lady
exclaimed the princess
she
added, looking close to her outstretched hand
said Irene thoughtfully. Then suddenly becoming
aware, she jumped up, crying
The lady laid her hand on her shoulder and said
said the princess, and sat down again
said the lady
said Irene, still puzzled
said Irene
answered her grandmother
cried Irene, jumping up, and flinging
her arms about her neck
said the princess, beginning to cry
The lady stooped, lifted her in her arms, and sat down with her in her
chair, holding her close to her bosom. In a few minutes the princess had
sobbed herself to sleep. How long she slept, I do not know. When she
came to herself she was sitting in her own high chair at the nursery
table, with her doll's-house before her
THE same moment her nurse came into the room, sobbing. When she saw her
sitting there, she started back with a loud cry of amazement and joy.
Then running to her, she caught her up in her arms and covered her dear
little face with kisses
thought Irene to herself; and she might have
added
perhaps, if she had known all. But the
one she would not, and the other she could not say
she replied, and told
her all about the cat with the long legs, and how she ran out upon the
mountain, and came back again. But she said nothing of her grandmother
or her lamp
exclaimed the nurse
she added, her mood
changing
said Irene quietly
returned Lootie
This put a stop to Lootie's reproaches. She had been on the point of
saying that the long-legged cat must have been a twilight fancy of the
princess's, but the memory of the horrors of that night, and of the
talking-to which the king had given her in consequence, prevented her
from saying that which after all she did not half believe -- having a
strong suspicion that the cat was a goblin; for the fact was that she
knew nothing of the difference between the goblins and their creatures:
she counted them all just goblins.

Without another word she went and got some fresh tea and bread and
butter for the princess. Before she returned, the whole household,
headed by the housekeeper, burst into the nursery to exult over their
darling. The gentlemen-at-arms followed, and were ready enough to
believe all she told them about the long-legged cat. Indeed, though wise
enough to say nothing about it, they remembered with no little horror,
just such a creature amongst those they had surprised at their gambols
upon the princess's lawn. In their own hearts they blamed themselves for
not having kept better watch. And their captain gave order that from
this night the front door and all the windows on the ground floor should
be locked immediately the sun set, and opened after upon no pretence
whatever. The men-at-arms redoubled their vigilance, and for some time
there was no further cause of alarm.

When the princess woke the next morning, her nurse was bending over her
she said
returned Irene
answered her nurse
said Irene
THE spring, so dear to all creatures, young and old, came at last, and
before the first few days of it had gone, the king rode through its
budding valleys to see his little daughter. He had been in a distant
part of his dominions all the winter, for he was not in the habit of
stopping in one great city, or of visiting only his favorite country
houses, but he moved from place to place, that all his people might know
him. Wherever he journeyed, he kept a constant lookout for the ablest
and best men to put into office, and wherever he found himself mistaken,
and those he had appointed incapable or unjust, he removed them at once.
Hence you see it was his care of the people that kept him from seeing
his princess so often as he would have liked. You may wonder why he did
not take her about with him; but there were several reasons against his
doing so, and I suspect her great-great-grandmother had had a principal
hand in preventing it. Once more Irene heard the bugle-blast, and once
more she was at the gate to meet her father as he rode up on his great
white horse.

After they had been alone for a little while, she thought of what she
had resolved to ask him
she said
The king looked at it. A strange, beautiful smile spread like sunshine
over his face, and an answering smile, but at the same time a
questioning one, spread like moonlight over Irene's
he said
asked Irene
said the king, looking grave
asked the princess
answered the king, and the tears came in his
eyes.

Irene did not remember her mother, and did not know why her father
looked so, and why the tears came in his eyes; but she put her arms
round his neck and kissed him, and asked no more questions.

The king was much disturbed on hearing the report of the
gentlemen-at-arms concerning the creatures they had seen; and I presume
would have taken Irene with him that very day, but for what the presence
of the ring on her finger assured him of. About an hour before he left,
Irene saw him go up the old stair; and he did not come down again till
they were just ready to start; and she thought with herself that he had
been up to see the old lady. When he went away, he left the other six
gentlemen behind him, that there might be six of them always on guard.

And now, in the lovely spring-weather, Irene was out on the mountain the
greater part of the day. In the warmer hollows there were lovely
primroses, and not so many that she ever got tired of them. As often as
she saw a new one opening an eye of light in the blind earth, she would
clap her hands with gladness, and, unlike some children I know, instead
of pulling it, would touch it as tenderly as if it had been a new baby,
and, having made its acquaintance, would leave it as happy as she found
it. She treated the plants on which they grew like birds' nests; every
fresh flower was like a new little bird to her. She would pay a visit to
all the flower-nests she knew, remembering each by itself. She would go
down on her hands and knees beside one and say
And then she would go
to another nest, and say the same. It was a favorite amusement with her.
There were many flowers up and down, and she loved them all, but the
primroses were her favorites
she would say to
Lootie.

There were goats too about, over the mountain, and when the little kids
came, she was as pleased with them as with the flowers. The goats
belonged to the miners mostly -- a few of them to Curdie's mother; but
there were a good many wild ones that seemed to belong to nobody. These
the goblins counted theirs, and it was upon them partly that they lived.
They set snares and dug pits for them; and did not scruple to take what
tame ones happened to be caught; but they did not try to steal them in
any other manner, because they were afraid of the dogs the hill-people
kept to watch them, for the knowing dogs always tried to bite their
feet. But the goblins had a kind of sheep of their own -- very queer
creatures, which they drove out to feed at night, and the other
goblin-creatures were wise enough to keep good watch over them, for they
knew they should have their bones by and by
CURDIE was as watchful as ever, but was almost getting tired of his
ill-success. Every other night or so he followed the goblins about, as
they went on digging and boring, and getting as near them as he could,
watched them from behind stones and rocks; but as yet he seemed no
nearer finding out what they had in view. As at first, he always kept
hold of the end of his string, while his pickaxe left just outside the
hole by which he entered the goblins' country from the mine, continued
to serve as an anchor and hold fast the other end. The goblins hearing
no more noise in that quarter, had ceased to apprehend an immediate
invasion, and kept no watch.

One night, after dodging about and listening till he was nearly falling
asleep with weariness, he began to roll up his ball, for he had resolved
to go home to bed. It was not long, however, before he began to feel
bewildered. One after another he passed goblin-houses, caves that is,
occupied by goblin families, and at length was sure they were many more
than he had passed as he came. He had to use great caution to pass
unseen -- they lay so close together. Could his string have led him wrong?
He still followed winding it, and still it led him into more thickly
populated quarters, until he became quite uneasy, and indeed
apprehensive; for although he was not afraid of the _cobs_, he was
afraid of not finding his way out. But what could he do? It was of no
use to sit down and wait for the morning -- the morning made no difference
here. It was all dark, and always dark; and if his string failed him he
was helpless. He might even arrive within a yard of the mine, and never
know it. Seeing he could do nothing better, he would at least find where
the end of the string was, and if possible how it had come to play him
such a trick. He knew by the size of the ball that he was getting pretty
near the last of it, when he began to feel a tugging and pulling at it.
What could it mean? Turning a sharp corner, he thought he heard strange
sounds. These grew, as he went on, to a scuffling and growling and
squeaking; and the noise increased, until, turning a second sharp
corner, he found himself in the midst of it, and the same moment tumbled
over a wallowing mass, which he knew must be a knot of the cobs'
creatures. Before he could recover his feet, he had caught some great
scratches on his face, and several severe bites on his legs and arms.
But as he scrambled to get up, his hand fell upon his pickaxe, and
before the horrid beasts could do him any serious harm, he was laying
about with it right and left in the dark. The hideous cries which
followed gave him the satisfaction of knowing that he had punished some
of them pretty smartly for their rudeness, and by their scampering and
their retreating howls, he perceived that he had routed them. He stood a
little, weighing his battle-axe in his hand as if it had been the most
precious lump of metal -- but indeed no lump of gold itself could have
been so precious at that time as that common tool -- then untied the end
of the string from it, put the ball in his pocket, and still stood
thinking. It was clear that the cobs' creatures had found his axe, had
between them carried it off, and had so led him he knew not where. But
for all his thinking he could not tell what he ought to do, until
suddenly he became aware of a glimmer of light in the distance. Without
a moment's hesitation he set out for it, as fast as the unknown and
rugged way would permit. Yet again turning a corner, led by the dim
light, he spied something quite new in his experience of the underground
regions -- a small irregular shape of something shining. Going up to it,
he found it was a piece of mica, or Muscovy glass, called sheep-silver
in Scotland, and the light flickering as if from a fire behind it. After
trying in vain for some time to discover an entrance to the place where
it was burning, he came at length to a small chamber in which an opening
high in the wall revealed a glow beyond. To this opening he managed to
scramble up, and then he saw a strange sight.

Below sat a little group of goblins around a fire, the smoke of which
vanished in the darkness far aloft. The sides of the cave were full of
shining minerals like those of the palace-hall; and the company was
evidently of a superior order, for every one wore stones about head, or
arms, or waist, shining, dull, gorgeous colors in the light of the fire.
Nor had Curdie looked long before he recognized the king himself, and
found that he had made his way into the inner apartment of the royal
family. He had never had such a good chance of hearing something! He
crept through the hole as softly as he could, scrambled a good way down
the wall toward them without attracting attention, and then sat down and
listened. The king, evidently the queen, and probably the crown-prince
and the prime minister were talking together. He was sure of the queen
by her shoes, for as she warmed her feet at the fire, he saw them quite
plainly
said the one he took for the crown-prince.

It was the first whole sentence he heard
said his
stepmother, tossing her head backward
interposed his Majesty, as if making
excuse for his son
said the king
said the queen
the king said, with a little groan
cried
the queen; and she moved angrily toward Harelip. The councilor, however,
who was betwixt them, leaned forward so as to prevent her touching him,
but only as if to address the prince
he said
shouted the queen triumphantly.

The councilor, encouraged by this mark of favor, went on
laughed the queen, louder than before, and the king and
the minister joined in the laugh. It was anything but a laughing matter
to Harelip. He growled, and for a few moments the others continued to
express their enjoyment of his discomfiture.

The queen was the only one Curdie could see with any distinctness. She
sat sideways to him, and the light of the fire shone full upon her face.
He could not consider her handsome. Her nose was certainly broader at
the end than its extreme length, and her eyes, instead of being
horizontal, were set up like two perpendicular eggs, one on the broad,
the other on the small, end. Her mouth was no bigger than a small
buttonhole until she laughed, when it stretched from ear to ear -- only
to be sure her ears were very nearly in the middle of her cheeks.

Anxious to hear everything they might say, Curdie ventured to slide down
a smooth part of the rock just under him, to a projection below, upon
which he thought to rest. But whether he was not careful enough, or the
projection gave way, down he came with a rush on the floor of the
cavern, bringing with him a great rumbling shower of stones.

The goblins jumped from their seats in more anger than consternation,
for they had never yet seen anything to be afraid of in the palace. But
when they saw Curdie with his pick in his hand, their rage was mingled
with fear, for they took him for the first of an invasion of miners. The
king notwithstanding drew himself up to his full height of four feet,
spread himself to his full breadth of three and a half, for he was the
handsomest and squarest of all the goblins, and strutting up to Curdie,
planted himself with outspread feet before him, and said with dignity
answered Curdie
Curdie did look at it, answering
And
Curdie showed him how he was scratched and bitten.

&lsqb;The goblins fell back a little when he began, and made
horrible grimaces all through the rhyme.&rsqb;

The king was pleased to find him behave more politely than he had
expected from what his people had told him concerning the miners, for he
attributed it to the power of his own presence; but he did not therefore
feel friendly to the intruder
he said,
well knowing what a mockery lay in the words
said Curdie
said the king, with a scoffing air of
magnificent liberality
said Curdie.

But the king uttered a strange shout, half halloo, half roar, and in
rushed goblins till the cave was swarming. He said something to the
first of them which Curdie could not hear, and it was passed from one to
another till in a moment the farthest in the crowd had evidently heard
and understood it. They began to gather about him in a way he did not
relish, and he retreated toward the wall. They pressed upon him
said Curdie, grasping his pickaxe tighter by his knee.

They only grinned and pressed closer. Curdie bethought himself, and
began to rhyme
The goblins fell back a little when he began, and made horrible grimaces
all through the rhyme, as if eating something so disagreeable that it
set their teeth on edge and gave them the creeps; but whether it was
that the rhyming words were most of them no words at all, for a new
rhyme being considered more efficacious, Curdie had made it on the spur
of the moment, or whether it was that the presence of the king and queen
gave them courage, I cannot tell; but the moment the rhyme was over,
they crowded on him again, and out shot a hundred long arms, with a
multitude of thick nailless fingers at the end of them, to lay hold upon
him. Then Curdie heaved up his axe. But being as gentle as courageous
and not wishing to kill any of them, he turned the end which was square
and blunt like a hammer, and with that came down a great blow on the
head of the goblin nearest him. Hard as the heads of all goblins are, he
thought he must feel that. And so he did, no doubt; but he only gave a
horrible cry, and sprung at Curdie's throat. Curdie however drew back in
time, and just at that critical moment, remembered the vulnerable part
of the goblin-body. He made a sudden rush at the king, and stamped with
all his might on his Majesty's feet. The king gave a most unkingly howl,
and almost fell into the fire. Curdie then rushed into the crowd,
stamping right and left. The goblins drew back howling on every side as
he approached, but they were so crowded that few of those he attacked
could escape his tread; and the shrieking and roaring that filled the
cave would have appalled Curdie, but for the good hope it gave him. They
were tumbling over each other in heaps in their eagerness to rush from
the cave, when a new assailant suddenly faced him:-- the queen, with
flaming eyes and expanded nostrils, her hair standing half up from her
head, rushed at him. She trusted in her shoes; they were of
granite -- hollowed like French _sabots_. Curdie would have endured much
rather than hurt a woman, even if she was a goblin; but here was an
affair of life and death: forgetting her shoes, he made a great stamp on
one of her feet. But she instantly returned it with very different
effect, causing him frightful pain and almost disabling him. His only
chance with her would have been to attack the granite shoes with his
pickaxe, but before he could think of that, she had caught him up in her
arms, and was rushing with him across the cave. She dashed him into a
hole in the wall, with a force that almost stunned him. But although he
could not move, he was not too far gone to hear her great cry, and the
rush of multitudes of soft feet, followed by the sounds of something
heaved up against the rock; after which came a multitudinous patter of
stones falling near him. The last had not ceased when he grew very
faint, for his head had been badly cut, and at last insensible.

When he came to himself, there was perfect silence about him, and utter
darkness, but for the merest glimmer in one tiny spot. He crawled to it,
and found that they had heaved a slab against the mouth of the hole,
past the edge of which a poor little gleam found its way from the fire.
He could not move it a hair's breadth, for they had piled a great heap
of stones against it. He crawled back to where he had been lying, in the
faint hope of finding his pickaxe. But after a vain search, he was at
last compelled to acknowledge himself in an evil plight. He sat down and
tried to think, but soon fell fast asleep
HE must have slept a long time, for when he awoke, he felt wonderfully
restored -- indeed he felt almost well, and he was also very hungry. There
were voices in the outer cave.

Once more then, it was night; for the goblins slept during the day, and
went about their affairs during the night.

In the universal and constant darkness of their dwelling, they had no
reason to prefer the one arrangement to the other; but from aversion to
the sun-people, they chose to be busy when there was least chance of
their being met either by the miners below, when they were burrowing, or
by the people of the mountain above, when they were feeding their sheep
or catching their goats. And indeed it was only when the sun was away
that the outside of the mountain was sufficiently like their own dismal
regions to be endurable to their mole-eyes, so thoroughly had they
become disused to any light beyond that of their own fires and torches.

Curdie listened, and soon found that they were talking of himself
asked Harelip
answered the king
interposed the queen
interrupted the
king
The queen laughed. She seemed in far better humor than the night before
she resumed
said the king
returned her Majesty
The king gave a great laugh
he said
returned the
queen
said her husband
cried the queen and prince together, both of them
clapping their hands. And the prince made an ugly noise with his
hare-lip, just as if he had intended to be one at the feast
added the queen, bethinking herself
said the king
cried the queen, shuddering from pot-metal
head to granite shoes
said the king with solemn indignation
cried the crown-prince valiantly, getting
up and standing in front of the heap of stones, with his face toward
Curdie's prison
shouted Curdie, and began singing again
said the queen
said the king
said the queen
said Curdie
said the queen, with the utmost scorn in her
voice
said his Majesty with dignity
returned Curdie, and began singing again
roared the queen in a rage
said the king
retorted the queen sulkily
said the king
said the queen
said the king.

Apparently his Majesty approached the queen for the purpose of following
the advice given by Curdie, for the latter heard a scuffle, and then a
great roar from the king
said the queen wickedly
cried the queen triumphantly
said Harelip sleepily
said the king
said the queen
screamed the king, in the most supplicating of tones.

Curdie heard only a muttered reply in the distance; and then the cave
was quite still.

They had left the fire burning, and the light came through brighter than
before. Curdie thought it was time to try again if anything could be
done. But he found he could not get even a finger through the chink
between the slab and the rock. He gave a great rush with his shoulder
against the slab, but it yielded no more than if it had been part of the
rock. All he could do was to sit down and think again.

By and by he came to the resolution to pretend to be dying, in the hope
they might take him out before his strength was too much exhausted to
let him have a chance. Then, for the creatures, if he could but find his
axe again, he would have no fear of them; and if it were not for the
queen's horrid shoes, he would have no fear at all.

Meantime, until they should come again at night, there was nothing for
him to do but forge new rhymes, now his only weapons. He had no
intention of using them at present, of course; but it was well to have a
stock, for he might live to want them, and the manufacture of them would
help to while away the time
THAT same morning, early, the princess woke in a terrible fright. There
was a hideous noise in her room -- of creatures snarling and hissing and
racketing about as if they were fighting. The moment she came to
herself, she remembered something she had never thought of again -- what
her grandmother told her to do when she was frightened. She immediately
took off her ring and put it under her pillow. As she did so, she
fancied she felt a finger and thumb take it gently from under her palm
she said to herself, and the thought gave
her such courage that she stopped to put on her dainty little slippers
before running from the room. While doing this, she caught sight of a
long cloak of sky-blue, thrown over the back of a chair by her bedside.
She had never seen it before, but it was evidently waiting for her. She
put it on, and then, feeling with the forefinger of her right hand, soon
found her grandmother's thread, which she proceeded at once to follow,
expecting it would lead her straight up the old stair. When she reached
the door, she found it went down and ran along the floor, so that she
had almost to crawl in order to keep a hold of it. Then, to her
surprise, and somewhat to her dismay, she found that instead of leading
her toward the stair it turned in quite the opposite direction. It led
her through certain narrow passages toward the kitchen, turning aside
ere she reached it, and guiding her to a door which communicated with a
small back yard. Some of the maids were already up, and this door was
standing open. Across the yard the thread still ran along the ground,
until it brought her to a door in the wall which opened upon the
mountain side. When she had passed through, the thread rose to about
half her height, and she could hold it with ease as she walked. It led
her straight up the mountain.

The cause of her alarm was less frightful than she supposed. The cook's
great black cat, pursued by the housekeeper's terrier, had bounced
against her bedroom door, which had not been properly fastened, and the
two had burst into her room together and commenced a battle royal. How
the nurse came to sleep through it, was a mystery, but I suspect the old
lady had something to do with it.

It was a clear warm morning. The wind blew deliciously over the
mountain-side. Here and there she saw a late primrose, but she did not
stop to call on them. The sky was mottled with small clouds. The sun was
not yet up, but some of their fluffy edges had caught his light and hung
out orange and gold-colored fringes upon the air. The dew lay in round
drops upon the leaves, and hung like tiny diamonds from the blades of
grass about her path
thought the princess, looking at a
long undulating line that shone at some distance from her up the hill.
It was not the time for gossamers though; and Irene soon discovered that
it was her own thread she saw shining on before her in the light of the
morning. It was leading her she knew not whither; but she had never in
her life been out before sunrise, and everything was so fresh and cool
and lively and full of something coming, that she felt too happy to be
afraid of anything.

After leading her up a good distance, the thread turned to the left, and
down the path upon which she and Lootie had met Curdie. But she never
thought of that, for now in the morning light, with its far outlook over
the country, no path could have been more open and airy and cheerful.
She could see the road almost to the horizon, along which she had so
often watched her king-papa and his troop come shining, with the
bugle-blast cleaving the air before them; and it was like a companion to
her. Down and down the path went, then up, and then down, and then up
again, getting rugged and more rugged as it went; still along the path
went the silvery thread, and still along the thread went Irene's little
rosy-tipped forefinger. By and by she came to a little stream that
jabbered and prattled down the hill, and up the side of the stream went
both path and thread. And still the path grew rougher and steeper, and
the mountain grew wilder, till Irene began to think she was going a very
long way from home; and when she turned to look back, she saw that the
level country had vanished and the rough bare mountain had closed in
about her. But still on went the thread, and on went the princess.
Everything around her was getting brighter and brighter as the sun came
nearer; till at length his first rays all at once alighted on the top of
a rock before her, like some golden creature fresh from the sky. Then
she saw that the little stream ran out of a hole in that rock, that the
path did not go past the rock, and that the thread was leading her
straight up to it. A shudder ran through her from head to foot when she
found that the thread was actually taking her into the hole out of which
the stream ran. It ran out babbling joyously, but she had to go in.

She did not hesitate. Right into the hole she went, which was high
enough to let her walk without stooping. For a little way there was a
brown glimmer, but at the first turn it all but ceased, and before she
had gone many paces she was in total darkness. Then she began to be
frightened indeed. Every moment she kept feeling the thread backward,
and as she went farther and farther into the darkness of the great
hollow mountain, she kept thinking more and more about her grandmother,
and all that she had said to her, and how kind she had been, and how
beautiful she was, and all about her lovely room, and the fire of roses,
and the great lamp that sent its light through stone walls. And she
became more and more sure that the thread could not have gone there of
itself, and that her grandmother must have sent it. But it tried her
dreadfully when the path went down very steep, and especially when she
came to places where she had to go down rough stairs, and even sometimes
a ladder. Through one narrow passage after another, over lumps of rock
and sand and clay, the thread guided her, until she came to a small hole
through which she had to creep. Finding no change on the other
side
she thought, over and over again,
wondering at herself that she was not ten times more frightened, and
often feeling as if she were only walking in the story of a dream.
Sometimes she heard the noise of water, a dull gurgling inside the rock.
By and by she heard the sounds of blows, which came nearer and nearer;
but again they grew duller and almost died away. In a hundred directions
she turned, obedient to the guiding thread.

At last she spied a dull red shine, and came up to the mica-window, and
thence away and round about, and right into a cavern, where glowed the
red embers of a fire. Here the thread began to rise. It rose as high as
her head, and higher still. What _should_ she do if she lost her hold?
She was pulling it down! She might break it! She could see it far up,
glowing as red as her fire-opal in the light of the embers.

But presently she came to a huge heap of stones, piled in a slope
against the wall of the cavern. On these she climbed, and soon recovered
the level of the thread -- only however to find, the next moment, that it
vanished through the heap of stones, and left her standing on it, with
her face to the solid rock. For one terrible moment, she felt as if her
grandmother had forsaken her. The thread which the spiders had spun far
over the seas, which her grandmother had sat in the moonlight and spun
again for her, which she had tempered in the rose-fire, and tied to her
opal ring, had left her -- had gone where she could no longer follow
it -- had brought her into a horrible cavern, and there left her! She was
forsaken indeed
she said to herself in an agony, but the same
moment knew that it was no dream. She threw herself upon the heap, and
began to cry. It was well she did not know what creatures, one of them
with stone shoes on her feet, were lying in the next cave. But neither
did she know who was on the other side of the slab.

At length the thought struck her, that at least she could follow the
thread backward, and thus get out of the mountain, and home. She rose at
once, and found the thread. But the instant she tried to feel it
backward, it vanished from her touch. Forward, it led her hand up to the
heap of stones -- backward, it seemed nowhere. Neither could she see it as
before in the light of the fire. She burst into a wailing cry, and again
threw herself down on the stones
AS the princess lay and sobbed, she kept feeling the thread
mechanically, following it with her finger many times up the stones in
which it disappeared. By and by she began, still mechanically, to poke
her finger in after it between the stones as far as she could. All at
once it came into her head that she might remove some of the stones and
see where the thread went next. Almost laughing at herself for never
having thought of this before, she jumped to her feet. Her fear
vanished: once more she was certain her grandmother's thread could not
have brought her there just to leave her there; and she began to throw
away the stones from the top as fast as she could, sometimes two or
three at a handful, sometimes taking both hands to lift one. After
clearing them away a little, she found that the thread turned and went
straight downward. Hence, as the heap sloped a good deal, growing of
course wider toward its base, she had to throw away a multitude of
stones to follow the thread. But this was not all, for she soon found
that the thread, after going straight down for a little way, turned
first sideways in one direction, then sideways in another, and then
shot, at various angles, hither and thither inside the heap, so that she
began to be afraid that to clear the thread, she must remove the whole
huge gathering. She was dismayed at the very idea, but, losing no time,
set to work with a will; and with aching back, and bleeding fingers and
hands, she worked on, sustained by the pleasure of seeing the heap
slowly diminish, and begin to show itself on the opposite side of the
fire. Another thing which helped to keep up her courage was, that as
often as she uncovered a turn of the thread, instead of lying loose upon
the stones, it tightened up; this made her sure that her grandmother was
at the end of it somewhere.

She had got about half way down when she started, and nearly fell with
fright. Close to her ear as it seemed, a voice broke out singing
Here Curdie stopped, either because he could not find a rhyme to
_jabber_, or because he remembered what he had forgotten when he woke up
at the sound of Irene's labors, that his plan was to make the goblins
think he was getting weak. But he had uttered enough to let Irene know
who he was
she cried joyfully
came Curdie's voice again from somewhere
said Irene
answered the princess
exclaimed Curdie, in a tone of delight, but still
speaking in little more than a whisper
said Curdie
returned Irene
said Curdie.

And Irene went to work, as fresh as when she began
she said
asked Curdie
Irene looked and felt about with her hands, and soon perceived the
outlines of the slab
she answered
rejoined Curdie
returned Irene
exclaimed Curdie
answered the princess, and then
she went on harder than ever.

But she was soon satisfied that what Curdie wanted done, and what the
thread wanted done, were one and the same thing. For she not only saw
that by following the turns of the thread she had been clearing the face
of the slab, but that, a little more than half way down, the thread went
through the chink between the slab and the wall into the place where
Curdie was confined, so that she could not follow it any farther until
the slab was out of her way. As soon as she found this, she said in a
right joyous whisper
said Curdie
Irene got off the heap, and stood on one side of it
she cried.

Curdie gave a great rush with his shoulder against it. Out tumbled the
slab on the heap, and out crept Curdie over the top of it
he whispered
returned he
said Irene
She had already begun to follow it over the fallen slab into the hole,
while Curdie was searching the floor of the cavern for his pickaxe.

&lsqb;Curdie went on after her, flashing his torch about
he cried
he added, in a disappointed
tone
he went on, as he lighted the torch by blowing the last
embers of the expiring fire.

When he looked up, with the lighted torch casting a glare into the great
darkness of the huge cavern, he caught sight of Irene disappearing in
the hole out of which he had himself just come
he cried
whispered Irene
said Curdie to himself
So he crept once more over the slab into the hole with his torch in his
hand. But when he looked about in it, he could see her nowhere. And now
he discovered that although the hole was narrow, it was much larger than
he had supposed; for in one direction the roof came down very low, and
the hole went off in a narrow passage, of which he could not see the
end. The princess must have crept in there. He got on his knees and one
hand, holding the torch with the other, and crept after her. The hole
twisted about, in some parts so low that he could hardly get through,
in others so high that he could not see the roof, but everywhere it was
narrow -- far too narrow for a goblin to get through, and so I presume
they never thought that Curdie might. He was beginning to feel very
uncomfortable lest he could not see the end. The princess when he heard
her voice almost close to his ear, whispering
And when he turned the next corner, there she stood waiting for him
she said
said Curdie, half to himself, half to Irene
she returned
Curdie, utterly astonished that she had already got so far, and by a
path he had known nothing of, thought it better to let her do as she
pleased
he said again to himself
Reasoning thus, he followed her a few steps, and came out in another
great cavern, across which Irene walked in a straight line, as
confidently as if she knew every step of the way. Curdie went on after
her, flashing his torch about, and trying to see something of what lay
around them. Suddenly he started back a pace as the light fell upon
something close by which Irene was passing. It was a platform of rock
raised a few feet from the floor and covered with sheep skins, upon
which lay two horrible figures asleep, at once recognized by Curdie as
the king and queen of the goblins. He lowered his torch instantly lest
the light should awake them. As he did so, it flashed upon his pickaxe,
lying by the side of the queen, whose hand lay close by the handle of
it
he whispered
Irene shuddered when she saw the frightful creatures whom she had passed
without observing them, but she did as he requested, and turning her
back, held the torch low in front of her. Curdie drew his pickaxe
carefully away, and as he did so, spied one of her feet, projecting from
under the skins. The great clumsy granite shoe, exposed thus to his
hand, was a temptation not to be resisted. He laid hold of it, and with
cautious efforts, drew it off. The moment he succeeded, he saw to his
astonishment that what he had sung in ignorance, to annoy the queen, was
actually true: she had six horrible toes. Overjoyed at his success, and
seeing by the huge bump in the sheep skins where the other foot was, he
proceeded to lift them gently, for, if he could only succeed in carrying
away the other shoe as well, he would be no more afraid of the goblins
than of so many flies. But as he pulled at the second shoe, the queen
gave a growl and sat up in bed. The same instant the king awoke also,
and sat up beside her
cried Curdie, for though he was not now in the least
afraid for himself, he was for the princess.

Irene looked once round, saw the fearful creatures awake, and like the
wise princess she was, dashed the torch on the ground and extinguished
it, crying out
He darted to her side, forgetting neither the queen's shoe nor his
pickaxe, and caught hold of her hand, as she sped fearlessly where her
thread guided her. They heard the queen give a great bellow; but they
had a good start, for it would be some time before they could get
torches lighted to pursue them. Just as they thought they saw a gleam
behind them, the thread brought them to a very narrow opening, through
which Irene crept easily, and Curdie with difficulty
said Curdie
returned Irene
asked Curdie
said Curdie
asked the princess, a little offended
said Curdie
returned the princess
said the other
acknowledged
Curdie
asked the princess
answered Curdie.

The princess asked more questions, and Curdie, as they walked leisurely
along, gave her a full account, not only of the character and habits of
the goblins, so far as he knew them, but of his own adventures with
them, beginning from the very night after that in which he had met her
and Lootie upon the mountain. When he had finished, he begged Irene to
tell him how it was that she had come to his rescue. So Irene too had to
tell a long story, which she did in rather a roundabout manner,
interrupted by many questions concerning things she had not explained.
But her tale, as he did not believe more than half of it, left
everything as unaccountable to him as before, and he was nearly as much
perplexed as to what he must think of the princess. He could not believe
that she was deliberately telling stories, and the only conclusion he
could come to was that Lootie had been playing the child tricks,
inventing no end of lies to frighten her for her own purposes
he
asked
persisted Curdie
answered Irene
she added, guiding Curdie's hand to the thread
replied Curdie
Curdie was too polite to say he did not believe there was any thread
there at all. What he did say was
said Curdie
returned Irene confidently.

And now the thread went downward, and led Irene's hand to a hole in the
floor of the cavern, whence came a sound of running water which they had
been hearing for some time
she said, stopping.

He had been listening to another sound, which his practised ear had
caught long ago, and which also had been growing louder. It was the
noise the goblin miners made at their work, and they seemed to be at no
great distance now. Irene heard it the moment she stopped
she asked
he answered
he asked,
wishing to have another try after their secret
said Curdie
she answered, stepping down
through a narrow break in the floor of the cavern
she cried
He tried, but the hole was too small for him to get in
he said, shouldering his pickaxe.

In a few moments he had cleared a large opening and followed her. They
went on, down and down with the running water, Curdie getting more and
more afraid it was leading them to some terrible gulf in the heart of
the mountain. In one or two places he had to break away the rock to make
room before even Irene could get through -- at least without hurting
herself. But at length they spied a glimmer of light, and in a minute
more, they were almost blinded by the full sunlight into which they
emerged. It was some little time before the princess could see well
enough to discover that they stood in her own garden, close by the seat
on which she and her king-papa had sat that afternoon. They had come out
by the channel of the little stream. She danced and clapped her hands
with delight
she cried
For she had felt all the time that Curdie was not believing what she had
told him
she added
persisted Curdie
said the princess
persisted Irene
They met no one by the way, for indeed, as before, the people were here
and there and everywhere searching for the princess. When they got in,
Irene found that the thread, as she had half expected, went up the old
staircase, and a new thought struck her. She turned to Curdie and
said
returned Curdie
The little miner could not withstand this appeal, and though he felt shy
in what seemed to him such a huge grand house, he yielded, and followed
her up the stair
UP the stair then they went, and the next and the next, and through the
long rows of empty rooms, and up the little tower stairs, Irene growing
happier and happier as she ascended. There was no answer when she
knocked at length at the door of the workroom, nor could she hear any
sound of the spinning-wheel, and once more her heart sank within
her -- but only for one moment, as she turned and knocked at the other
door
answered the sweet voice of her grandmother, and Irene opened
the door and entered, followed by Curdie
cried the lady, who was seated by a fire of red roses
mingled with white
As she spoke she took the little princess in her arms and placed her
upon her lap. She was dressed in white now, and looking if possible more
lovely than ever
replied her grandmother
said Irene, looking round at him as she asked the
question.

He was standing in the middle of the floor, staring, and looking
strangely bewildered. This she thought came of his astonishment at the
beauty of the lady
she said
answered Curdie, rather gruffly
exclaimed the
princess
said Curdie, almost sulkily
asked Irene almost as bewildered as he
answered Curdie, almost sulkily
said
Curdie, feeling very much hurt
asked Irene, who perceived at once that for
her not to believe him was at least as bad as for him not to believe
her
answered Curdie
asked Irene, almost
crying
expostulated the princess,
now fairly crying with vexation, and sorrow at the gulf between her and
Curdie
said Curdie, turning to leave the
room
sobbed the princess, turning her face
round upon the lady's bosom, and shaking with suppressed sobs
said her grandmother
asked Curdie
said Curdie, quite rudely
He said this as he opened the door, which he left open, and, without
another word, went down the stairs. Irene listened with dismay to his
departing footsteps. Then turning again to the lady
she sobbed, and burst into fresh
tears
said her grandmother, and pressed her close
to her bosom
asked
Irene, after a few moments' silence
said the
princess
The lady set her down, and rose, and went to the fire. Putting in her
hand, she drew it out again, and held up the shining ball between her
finger and thumb
she said, coming back to the princess
Going to her cabinet, she laid it in the same drawer as before
she added, taking it from the little finger of
her left hand, and putting it on the forefinger of Irene's right hand
the lady went on
And she held up to her a little mirror which she had brought from the
cabinet. The princess burst into a merry laugh at the sight. She was so
draggled with the stream, and dirty with creeping through narrow places,
that if she had seen the reflection without knowing it was a reflection,
she would have taken herself for some gypsy-child whose face was washed
and hair combed about once in a month. The lady laughed too, and lifting
her again upon her knee, took off her cloak and night-gown. Then she
carried her to the side of the room. Irene wondered what she was going
to do with her, but asked no questions -- only starting a little when she
found that she was going to lay her in the large silver bath; for as she
looked into it, again she saw no bottom, but the stars shining miles
away as it seemed in a great blue gulf. Her hands closed involuntarily
on the beautiful arms that held her, and that was all.

The lady pressed her once more to her bosom, saying
answered the princess, with a little gasp; and the
next instant she sank in the clear cool water.

When she opened her eyes, she saw nothing but a strange lovely blue over
and beneath and all about her. The lady and the beautiful room had
vanished from her sight, and she seemed utterly alone. But instead of
being afraid, she felt more than happy -- perfectly blissful. And from
somewhere came the voice of the lady, singing a strange sweet song, of
which she could distinguish every word; but of the sense she had only a
feeling -- no understanding. Nor could she remember a single line after it
was gone. It vanished, like the poetry in a dream, as fast as it came.
In after years, however, she would sometimes fancy that snatches of
melody suddenly rising in her brain, must be little phrases and
fragments of the air of that song; and the very fancy would make her
happier, and abler to do her duty.

How long she lay in the water she did not know. It seemed a long
time -- not from weariness, but from pleasure. But at last she felt the
beautiful hands lay hold of her, and through the gurgling waters she was
lifted out into the lovely room. The lady carried her to the fire, and
sat down with her in her lap, and dried her tenderly with the softest
towel. It was so different from Lootie's drying! When the lady had done,
she stooped to the fire, and drew from it her night-gown, as white as
snow
exclaimed the princess
When she stood up on the floor, she felt as if she had been made over
again. Every bruise and all weariness were gone, and her hands were soft
and whole as ever
said her
grandmother
said
her grandmother, and laid her into the blue bed, under the rosy
counterpane
said Irene
answered the lady
said Irene, and in a few minutes, she was
fast asleep
CURDIE went up the mountain neither whistling nor singing, for he was
vexed with Irene for taking him in, as he called it; and he was vexed
with himself for having spoken to her so angrily. His mother gave a cry
of joy when she saw him, and at once set about getting him something to
eat, asking him questions all the time, which he did not answer so
cheerfully as usual. When his meal was ready, she left him to eat it,
and hurried to the mine to let his father know he was safe. When she
came back, she found him fast asleep upon her bed; nor did he wake until
the arrival home of his father in the evening
his mother said, as they sat at supper
Curdie obeyed, and told everything to the point where they came out upon
the lawn in the garden of the king's house
asked his mother
answered Curdie
asked his father
Then Curdie made a clean breast of it, and told them everything.

They all sat silent for some time, pondering the strange tale. At last
Curdie's mother spoke
she said
he answered
said
Curdie, hanging down his head
said his mother very gravely
cried Curdie, bursting into tears
persisted his mother
replied his mother
cried father and son in a breath.

The mother gave a funny little smile, and went on
exclaimed Curdie
said his mother
said
his father
cried Curdie
said his mother
said Curdie
answered Curdie
said Peter
returned
his father
interposed his
mother
cried his mother
rejoined
Curdie
said his mother
said his father
said his mother
said Curdie
said his father
said his mother
said
Curdie
said
his mother
His mother got him what he asked for, and Curdie set out. Close beside
the door by which the princess left the garden for the mountain, stood a
great rock, and by climbing it Curdie got over the wall. He tied his
clue to a stone just inside the channel of the stream, and took his
pickaxe with him. He had not gone far before he encountered a horrid
creature coming toward the mouth. The spot was too narrow for two of
almost any size or shape, and besides Curdie had no wish to let the
creature pass. Not being able to use his pickaxe, however, he had a
severe struggle with him, and it was only after receiving many bites,
some of them bad, that he succeeded in killing him with his pocket
knife. Having dragged him out, he made haste to get in again before
another should stop up the way.

I need not follow him farther in this night's adventures. He returned to
his breakfast, satisfied that the goblins were mining in the direction
of the palace -- on so low a level that their intention must, he thought,
be to burrow under the walls of the king's house, and rise up inside
it -- in order, he fully believed, to lay hands on the little princess,
and carry her off for a wife to their horrid Harelip
WHEN the princess awoke from the sweetest of sleeps, she found her nurse
bending above her, the housekeeper looking over the nurse's shoulder,
and the laundry-maid looking over the housekeeper's. The room was full
of women-servants; and the gentlemen-at-arms, with a long column of
men-servants behind them, were peeping, or trying to peep in at the door
of the nursery
asked the princess, remembering first
what had terrified her in the morning
cried Lootie.

Her face was very pale, with red streaks in it, and she looked as if she
were going to shake her; but Irene said nothing -- only waited to hear
what should come next
It was the only way the nurse could account for her disappearance
said Irene, very quietly
cried her nurse quite rudely
said Irene
said the nurse
exclaimed the
princess
screamed the nurse, half wild
with anger at the princess, and fright at the possible consequences to
herself
said the princess, who somehow did
not feel at all angry
said the nurse
returned
the princess.

For she did know perfectly well that if she were to tell Lootie what she
had been about, the more she went on to tell her, the less would she
believe her
cried her nurse
said the princess
Every one stared at these words. Up to this moment, they had all
regarded her as little more than a baby.

But the housekeeper was afraid of the nurse, and sought to patch matters
up, saying
answered the captain of the
gentlemen-at-arms, walking with his great stride into the room. The
crowd of servants made eager way for him, and he bowed low before the
little princess's bed
said the princess, and her eye
glanced toward a rosy-cheeked girl who had lately come to the house as a
scullery-maid.

But when Lootie saw the eyes of her dear princess going in search of
another instead of her, she fell upon her knees by the bedside, and
burst into a great cry of distress
said the princess
EVERYTHING was for some time quiet above ground. The king was still away
in a distant part of his dominions. The men-at-arms kept watching about
the house. They had been considerably astonished by finding at the foot
of the rock in the garden, the hideous body of the goblin-creature
killed by Curdie; but they came to the conclusion that it had been slain
in the mines, and had crept out there to die; and except an occasional
glimpse of a live one they saw nothing to cause alarm. Curdie kept
watching in the mountain, and the goblins kept burrowing deeper into the
earth. As long as they went deeper, there was, Curdie judged, no
immediate danger.

To Irene, the summer was as full of pleasure as ever, and for a long
time, although she often thought of her grandmother during the day, and
often dreamed about her at night, she did not see her. The kids and the
flowers were as much her delight as ever, and she made as much
friendship with the miners' children she met on the mountain as Lootie
would permit; but Lootie had very foolish notions concerning the dignity
of a princess, not understanding that the truest princess is just the
one who loves all her brothers and sisters best, and who is most able to
do them good by being humble toward them. At the same time she was
considerably altered for the better in her behavior to the princess.
She could not help seeing that she was no longer a mere child, but wiser
than her age would account for. She kept foolishly whispering to the
servants, however -- sometimes that the princess was not right in her
mind, sometimes that she was too good to live, and other nonsense of the
same sort.

All this time, Curdie had to be sorry, without a chance of confessing,
that he had behaved so unkindly to the princess. This perhaps made him
the more diligent in his endeavors to serve her. His mother and he often
talked on the subject, and she comforted him, and told him she was sure
he would some day have the opportunity he so much desired.

Here I should like to remark, for the sake of princes and princesses in
general, that it is a low and contemptible thing to refuse to confess a
fault, or even an error. If a true princess has done wrong, she is
always uneasy until she has had an opportunity of throwing the wrongness
away from her by saying
So you see there is some ground for supposing that
Curdie was not a miner only, but a prince as well. Many such instances
have been known in the world's history.

At length, however, he began to see signs of a change in the proceedings
of the goblin excavators: they were going no deeper, but had commenced
running on a level; and he watched them, therefore, more closely than
ever. All at once, one night, coming to a slope of very hard rock, they
began to ascend along the inclined plane of its surface. Having reached
its top, they went again on a level for a night or two, after which they
began to ascend once more, and kept on at a pretty steep angle. At
length Curdie judged it time to transfer his observation to another
quarter, and the next night, he did not go to the mine at all; but,
leaving his pickaxe and clue at home, and taking only his usual lumps of
bread and pease-pudding, went down the mountain to the king's house. He
climbed over the wall, and remained in the garden the whole night,
creeping on hands and knees from one spot to the other, and lying at
full length with his ear to the ground, listening. But he heard nothing
except the tread of the men-at-arms as they marched about, whose
observation, as the night was cloudy and there was no moon, he had
little difficulty in avoiding. For several following nights, he
continued to haunt the garden and listen, but with no success.

At length, early one evening, whether it was that he had got careless of
his own safety, or that the growing moon had become strong enough to
expose him, his watching came to a sudden end. He was creeping from
behind the rock where the stream ran out, for he had been listening all
round it in the hope it might convey to his ear some indication of the
whereabouts of the goblin miners, when just as he came into the
moonlight on the lawn, a whizz in his ear and a blow upon his leg
startled him. He instantly squatted in the hope of eluding further
notice. But when he heard the sound of running feet, he jumped up to
take the chance of escape by flight. He fell, however, with a keen shoot
of pain, for the bolt of a cross-bow had wounded his leg, and the blood
was now streaming from it. He was instantly laid hold of by two or three
of the men-at-arms. It was useless to struggle, and he submitted in
silence
cried several of them together, in a tone of amazement
said Curdie laughing,
as the men shook him
said one
suggested another
said Curdie
said Curdie
said the captain, courteously, for
he was taken with Curdie's appearance and courage
said one of the party laughing
said Curdie.

But ere he could say more he turned faint, and fell senseless on the
grass. Then first they discovered that the bolt they had shot, taking
him for one of the goblin creatures, had wounded him.

They carried him into the house, and laid him down in the hall. The
report spread that they had caught a robber, and the servants crowded in
to see the villain. Amongst the rest came the nurse. The moment she saw
him she exclaimed with indignation
The princess being fast asleep, and Curdie in a faint, she could
misrepresent at her pleasure.

When he heard this, the captain, although he had considerable doubt of
its truth, resolved to keep Curdie a prisoner until they could search
into the affair. So, after they had brought him round a little, and
attended to his wound, which was rather a bad one, they laid him, still
exhausted from the loss of blood, upon a mattress in a disused room -- one
of those already so often mentioned -- and locked the door, and left him.
He passed a troubled night, and in the morning they found him talking
wildly. In the evening he came to himself, but felt very weak, and his
leg was exceedingly painful. Wondering where he was, and seeing one of
the men-at-arms in the room, he began to question him, and soon recalled
the events of the preceding night. As he was himself unable to watch any
more, he told the soldier all he knew about the goblins, and begged him
to tell his companions, and stir them up to watch with tenfold
vigilance; but whether it was that he did not talk quite coherently, or
that the whole thing appeared incredible, certainly the man concluded
that Curdie was only raving still, and tried to coax him into holding
his tongue. This, of course, annoyed Curdie dreadfully, who now felt in
his turn what it was not to be believed, and the consequence was that
his fever returned, and by the time when, at his persistent entreaties,
the captain was called, there could be no doubt that he was raving. They
did for him what they could, and promised everything he wanted, but with
no intention of fulfilment. At last he went to sleep, and when at length
his sleep grew profound and peaceful, they left him, locked the door
again, and withdrew, intending to revisit him early in the morning
THAT same night several of the servants were having a chat together
before going to bed
said one of the housemaids, who had been
listening for a moment or two
said the cook
said the scullery-maid
said
the cook
said the nurse
said the cook
As he spoke there came a great rolling rumble beneath them, and the
house quivered. They all started up in affright, and rushing to the hall
found the gentlemen-at-arms in consternation also. They had sent to wake
their captain, who said from their description that it must have been an
earthquake, an occurrence which, although very rare in that country, had
taken place almost within the century; and then went to bed again,
strange to say, and fell fast asleep without once thinking of Curdie, or
associating the noises they had heard with what he had told them. He had
not believed Curdie. If he had, he would at once have thought of what he
had said, and would have taken precautions. As they heard nothing more,
they concluded that Sir Walter was right, and that the danger was over
for perhaps another hundred years. The fact, as discovered afterward,
was that the goblins had, in working up a second sloping face of stone,
arrived at a huge block which lay under the cellars of the house, within
the line of the foundations. It was so round that when they succeeded,
after hard work, in dislodging it without blasting, it rolled thundering
down the slope with a bounding, jarring roll, which shook the
foundations of the house. The goblins were themselves dismayed at the
noise, for they knew, by careful spying and measuring, that they must
now be very near, if not under, the king's house, and they feared giving
an alarm. They, therefore, remained quiet for awhile, and when they
began to work again, they no doubt thought themselves very fortunate in
coming upon a vein of sand which filled a winding fissure in the rock
on which the house was built. By scooping this away they soon came out
in the king's wine-cellar.

No sooner did they and where they were, than they scurried back again,
like rats into their holes, and running at full speed to the goblin
palace, announced their success to the king and queen with shouts of
triumph. In a moment the goblin royal family and the whole goblin people
were on their way in hot haste to the king's house, each eager to have a
share in the glory of carrying off that same night the Princess Irene.

The queen went stumping along in one shoe of stone and one of skin. This
could not have been pleasant, and my readers may wonder that, with such
skillful workmen about her, she had not yet replaced the shoe carried
off by Curdie. As the king however had more than one ground of objection
to her stone shoes, he no doubt took advantage of the discovery of her
toes, and threatened to expose her deformity if she had another made. I
presume he insisted on her being content with skin-shoes, and allowed
her to wear the remaining granite one on the present occasion only
because she was going out to war.

They soon arrived in the king's wine-cellar, and regardless of its huge
vessels, of which they did not know the use, began as quietly as they
could to force the door that led upward
WHEN Curdie fell asleep he began at once to dream. He thought he was
ascending the mountain-side from the mouth of the mine, whistling and
singing
when he came upon a woman and child who
were lost; and from that point he went on dreaming all that had happened
since he met the princess and Lootie; how he had watched the goblins,
and been taken by them, how he had been rescued by the princess;
everything indeed, until he was wounded, and imprisoned by the
men-at-arms. And now he thought he was lying wide awake where they had
laid him, when suddenly he heard a great thundering sound
he said
He jumped up, as he thought, and began to dress, but, to his dismay,
found that he was still lying in bed
he said
But yet again he found himself snug in bed. Twenty times he tried, and
twenty times he failed; for in fact he was not awake, only dreaming that
he was. At length in an agony of despair, fancying he heard the goblins
all over the house, he gave a great cry. Then there came, as he thought,
a hand upon the lock of the door. It opened, and, looking up, he saw a
lady with white hair, carrying a silver box in her hand, enter the
room. She came to his bed, he thought, stroked his head and face with
cool, soft hands, took the dressing from his leg, rubbed it with
something that smelled like roses, and then waved her hands over him
three times. At the last wave of her hands everything vanished, he felt
himself sinking into the profoundest slumber, and remembered nothing
more until he awoke in earnest.

The setting moon was throwing a feeble light through the casement, and
the house was full of uproar. There was soft heavy multitudinous
stamping, a clashing and clanging of weapons, the voices of men and the
cries of women, mixed with a hideous bellowing, which sounded
victorious. The cobs were in the house! He sprang from his bed, hurried
on some of his clothes, not forgetting his shoes, which were armed with
nails; then spying an old hunting-knife, or short sword, hanging on the
wall, he caught it, and rushed down the stairs, guided by the sounds of
strife, which grew louder and louder.

When he reached the ground floor he found the whole place swarming. All
the goblins of the mountain seemed gathered there. He rushed amongst
them, shouting
and with every rhyme he came down a great stamp upon a foot, cutting at
the same time at their faces -- executing, indeed, a sword dance of the
wildest description. Away scattered the goblins in every
direction,-- into closets, upstairs, into chimneys, up on rafters, and
down to the cellars. Curdie went on stamping and slashing and singing,
but saw nothing of the people of the house until he came to the great
hall, in which, the moment he entered it, arose a great goblin shout.
The last of the men-at-arms, the captain himself, was on the floor,
buried beneath a wallowing crowd of goblins. For, while each knight was
busy defending himself as well as he could, by stabs in the thick bodies
of the goblins, for he had soon found their heads all but invulnerable,
the queen had attacked his legs and feet with her horrible granite shoe,
and he was soon down; but the captain had got his back to the wall and
stood out longer. The goblins would have torn them all to pieces, but
the king had given orders to carry them away alive, and over each of
them, in twelve groups, was standing a knot of goblins, while as many as
could find room were sitting upon their prostrate bodies.

Curdie burst in dancing and gyrating and stamping and singing like a
small incarnate whirlwind
The queen gave a howl of rage and dismay; and before she recovered her
presence of mind, Curdie, having begun with the group nearest him, had
eleven of the knights on their legs again
he cried, as each man rose, and in a few minutes
the hall was nearly empty, the goblins running from it as fast as they
could, howling and shrieking and limping, and cowering every now and
then as they ran to cuddle their wounded feet in their hard hands, or to
protect them from the frightful stamp-stamp of the armed men.

And now Curdie approached the group which, trusting in the queen and her
shoe, kept their guard over the prostrate captain. The king sat on the
captain's head, but the queen stood in front, like an infuriated cat,
with her perpendicular eyes gleaming green, and her hair standing half
up from her horrid head. Her heart was quaking, however, and she kept
moving about her skin-shod foot with nervous apprehension. When Curdie
was within a few paces, she rushed at him, made one tremendous stamp at
his opposing foot, which happily he withdrew in time, and caught him
round the waist, to dash him on the marble floor. But just as she caught
him, he came down with all the weight of his iron-shod shoe upon her
skin-shod foot, and with a hideous howl she dropped him, squatted on the
floor and took her foot in both her hands. Meanwhile the rest rushed on
the king and the bodyguard sent them flying, and lifted the prostrate
captain, who was all but pressed to death. It was some moments before he
recovered breath and consciousness
cried Curdie again and again.

No one knew, and off they all rushed in search of her.

Through every room in the house they went, but nowhere was she to be
found. Neither was one of the servants to be seen. But Curdie, who had
kept to the lower part of the house, which was now quiet enough, began
to hear a confused sound as of a distant hubbub, and set out to find
where it came from. The noise grew as his sharp ears guided him to a
stair and so to the wine cellar. It was full of goblins, whom the butler
was supplying with wine as fast as he could draw it.

While the queen and her party had encountered the men-at-arms, Harelip
with another company had gone off to search the house. They captured
every one they met, and when they could find no more, they hurried away
to carry them safe to the caverns below. But when the butler, who was
amongst them, found that their path lay through the wine cellar, he
bethought himself of persuading them to taste the wine, and, as he had
hoped, they no sooner tasted than they wanted more. The routed goblins,
on their way below, joined them, and when Curdie entered, they were all,
with outstretched hands, in which were vessels of every description,
from sauce-pan to silver cup, pressing around the butler, who sat at the
tap of a huge cask, filling and filling. Curdie cast one glance around
the place before commencing his attack, and saw in the farthest corner a
terrified group of the domestics unwatched, but cowering without courage
to attempt their escape. Amongst them was the terror-stricken face of
Lootie; but nowhere could he see the princess. Seized with the horrible
conviction that Harelip had already carried her off, he rushed amongst
them, unable for wrath to sing any more, but stamping and cutting with
greater fury than ever
he shouted, and in a moment
the goblins were disappearing through the hole in the floor like rats
and mice.

They could not vanish so fast, however, but that many more goblin feet
had to go limping back over the underground ways of the mountain that
morning.

Presently however they were reinforced from above by the king and his
party, with the redoubtable queen at their head. Finding Curdie again
busy amongst her unfortunate subjects, she rushed at him once more with
the rage of despair, and this time gave him a bad bruise on the foot.
Then a regular stamping fight got up between them, Curdie with the point
of his hunting knife keeping her from clasping her mighty arms about
him, as he watched his opportunity of getting once more a good stamp at
her skin-shod foot. But the queen was more wary as well as more agile
than hitherto.

The rest meantime, finding their adversary thus matched for the moment,
paused in their headlong hurry, and turned to the shivering group of
women in the corner. As if determined to emulate his father and have a
sun-woman of some sort to share his future throne. Harelip rushed at
them, caught up Lootie and sped with her to the hole. She gave a great
shriek, and Curdie heard her, and saw the plight she was in. Gathering
all his strength, he gave the queen a sudden cut across the face with
his weapon, came down, as she started back, with all his weight on the
proper foot, and sprang to Lootie's rescue. The prince had two
defenceless feet, and on both of them Curdie stamped just as he reached
the hole. He dropped his burden and rolled shrieking into the earth.
Curdie made one stab at him as he disappeared, caught hold of the
senseless Lootie, and having dragged her back to the corner, there
mounted guard over her, preparing once more to encounter the queen. Her
face streaming with blood, and her eyes flashing green lightning through
it, she came on with her mouth open and her teeth grinning like a
tiger's, followed by the king and her bodyguard of the thickest goblins.
But the same moment in rushed the captain and his men, and ran at them
stamping furiously. They dared not encounter such an onset. Away they
scurried, the queen foremost. Of course the right thing would have been
to take the king and queen prisoners, and hold them hostages for the
princess, but they were so anxious to find her that no one thought of
detaining them until it was too late.

Having thus rescued the servants, they set about searching the house
once more. None of them could give the least information concerning the
princess. Lootie was almost silly with terror, and although scarcely
able to walk, would not leave Curdie's side for a single moment. Again
he allowed the others to search the rest of the house -- where, except a
dismayed goblin lurking here and there, they found no one -- while he
requested Lootie to take him to the princess's room. She was as
submissive and obedient as if he had been the king. He found the
bed-clothes tossed about, and most of them on the floor, while the
princess's garments were scattered all over the room, which was in the
greatest confusion. It was only too evident that the goblins had been
there, and Curdie had no longer any doubt that she had been carried off
at the very first of the inroad. With a pang of despair he saw how wrong
they had been in not securing the king and queen and prince; but he
determined to find and rescue the princess as she had found and rescued
him, or meet the worst fate to which the goblins could doom him
There sat his mother by the fire, and in her arms lay the
princess fast asleep.&rsqb;

JUST as the consolation of this resolve dawned upon his mind, and he was
turning away for the cellar to follow the goblins into their hole,
something touched his hand. It was the slightest touch, and when he
looked he could see nothing. Feeling and peering about in the gray of
the dawn, his fingers came upon a tight thread. He looked again, and
narrowly, but still could see nothing. It flashed upon him that this
must be the princess's thread. Without saying a word, for he knew no one
would believe him any more than he had believed the princess, he
followed the thread with his finger, contrived to give Lootie the slip,
and was soon out of the house, and on the mountain-side -- surprised that,
if the thread were indeed her grandmother's messenger, it should have
led the princess, as he supposed it must, into the mountain, where she
would be certain to meet the goblins rushing back enraged from their
defeat. But he hurried on in the hope of overtaking her first. When he
arrived however at the place where the path turned off for the mine, he
found that the thread did not turn with it, but went straight up the
mountain. Could it be that the thread was leading him home to his
mother's cottage? Could the princess be there? He bounded up the
mountain like one of its own goats, and before the sun was up, the
thread had brought him indeed to his mother's door. There it vanished
from his fingers, and he could not find it, search as he might.

The door was on the latch, and he entered. There sat his mother by the
fire, and in her arms lay the princess fast asleep
said his mother
With a heart full of delight, Curdie sat down at a corner of the hearth,
on a stool opposite his mother's chair, and gazed at the princess, who
slept as peacefully as if she had been in her own bed. All at once she
opened her eyes and fixed them on him
she said quietly
Curdie rose and stood before her with downcast eyes
he said
answered the princess
Here Curdie's mother gave the princess a hug, and the princess turned
and gave her a sweet smile, and held up her mouth to kiss her
asked Curdie
cried the princess, shuddering
All at once Curdie remembered his dream, and was silent, thinking
asked the
princess.

Then Curdie had to explain everything -- how he had watched for her sake,
how he had been wounded and shut up by the soldiers, how he heard the
noises and could not rise, and how the beautiful old lady had come to
him, and all that followed
exclaimed the princess, stroking his rough hand
said his mother
said his mother.

He pulled down his stocking -- when behold, except a great scar, his leg
was perfectly sound!

Curdie and his mother gazed in each other's eyes, full of wonder, but
Irene called out
said Curdie
said the mother
said his mother, rising
and setting the princess on her chair.

But before his breakfast was ready, Curdie jumped up so suddenly as to
startle both his companions
he cried
Without a word of explanation, he rushed to the place where his father
was sleeping. Having thoroughly roused him with what he told him, he
darted out of the cottage
HE had all at once remembered the resolution of the goblins to carry out
their second plan upon the failure of the first. No doubt they were
already busy, and the mine was therefore in the greatest danger of being
flooded and rendered useless -- not to speak of the lives of the miners.

When he reached the mouth of the mine, after rousing all the miners
within reach, he found his father and a good many more just entering.
They all hurried to the gang by which he had found a way into the goblin
country. There the foresight of Peter had already collected a great many
blocks of stone, with cement, ready for building up the weak place -- well
enough known to the goblins. Although there was not room for more than
two to be actually building at once, they managed, by setting all the
rest to work in preparing the cement, and passing the stones, to finish
in the course of the day a huge buttress filling the whole gang, and
supported everywhere by the live rock. Before the hour when they usually
dropped work, they were satisfied that the mine was secure.

They had heard goblin hammers and pickaxes busy all the time, and at
length fancied they heard sounds of water they had never heard before.
But that was otherwise accounted for when they left the mine; for they
stepped out into a tremendous storm which was raging all over the
mountain. The thunder was bellowing, and the lightning lancing out of a
huge black cloud which lay above it, and hung down its edges of thick
mist over its sides. The lightning was breaking out of the mountain,
too, and flashing up into the cloud. From the state of the brooks, now
swollen into raging torrents, it was evident that the storm had been
storming all day.

The wind was blowing as if it would blow him off the mountain, but,
anxious about his mother and the princess, Curdie darted up through the
thick of the tempest. Even if they had not set out before the storm came
on, he did not judge them safe, for, in such a storm even their poor
little house was in danger. Indeed he soon found that but for a huge
rock against which it was built, and which protected it both from the
blasts and the waters, it must have been swept if it was not blown away;
for the two torrents into which this rock parted the rush of water
behind it united again in front of the cottage -- two roaring and
dangerous streams, which his mother and the princess could not possibly
have passed. It was with great difficulty that he forced his way through
one of them, and up to the door.

The moment his hand fell on the latch, through all the uproar of winds
and waters came the joyous cry of the princess
She was sitting wrapped in blankets on the bed, his mother trying for
the hundredth time to light the fire which had been drowned by the rain
that came down the chimney. The clay floor was one mass of mud, and the
whole place looked wretched. But the faces of the mother and the
princess shone as if their troubles only made them merrier. Curdie
laughed at sight of them
said the princess, her eyes twinkling and her
pretty teeth shining
said the mother
said Irene
By the time Peter returned, the storm was nearly over, but the streams
were so fierce and so swollen, that it was not only out of the question
for the princess to go down the mountain, but most dangerous for Peter
even or Curdie to make the attempt in the gathering darkness
said Peter to the
princess
With Curdie's help, the fire was lighted at last, and the mother set
about making their supper; and after supper they all told the princess
stories till she grew sleepy. Then Curdie's mother laid her in Curdie's
bed, which was in a tiny little garret-room. As soon as she was in bed,
through a little window low down in the roof she caught sight of her
grandmother's lamp shining far away beneath, and she gazed at the
beautiful silvery globe until she fell fast asleep
THE next morning the sun rose so bright that Irene said the rain had
washed his face and let the light out clean. The torrents were still
roaring down the side of the mountain, but they were so much smaller as
not to be dangerous in the daylight. After an early breakfast, Peter
went to his work, and Curdie and his mother set out to take the princess
home. They had difficulty in getting her dry across the streams, and
Curdie had again and again to carry her, but at last they got safe on
the broader part of the road, and walked gently down toward the king's
house. And what should they see as they turned the last corner, but the
last of the king's troop riding through the gate
cried Irene, clapping her hands right joyfully
The moment Curdie heard that, he caught her up in his arms, and set off
at full speed, crying
Irene clung round his neck, and he ran with her like a deer. When he
entered the gate into the court, there sat the king on his horse, with
all the people of the house about him, weeping and hanging their heads.
The king was not weeping, but his face was white as a dead man's, and he
looked as if the life had gone out of him. The men-at-arms he had
brought with him, sat with horror-stricken faces, but eyes flashing
with rage, waiting only for the word of the king to do something -- they
did not know what, and nobody knew what.

The day before the men-at-arms belonging to the house, as soon as they
were satisfied the princess had been carried away, rushed after the
goblins into the hole, but found that they had already so skilfully
blockaded the narrowest part, not many feet below the cellar, that
without miners and their tools they could do nothing. Not one of them
knew where the mouth of the mine lay, and some of those who had set out
to find it had been overtaken by the storm and had not even yet
returned. Poor Sir Walter was especially filled with shame, and almost
entertained the hope that the king would order him to be decapitated,
for the very thought of that sweet little face down amongst the goblins
was unendurable.

When Curdie ran in at the gate with the princess in his arms, they were
all so absorbed in their own misery and awed by the king's presence and
grief, that no one observed his arrival. He went straight up to the
king, where he sat on his horse
the princess cried, stretching out her arms to him
The king started. The color rushed to his face. He gave an inarticulate
cry. Curdie held up the princess, and the king bent down and took her
from his arms. As he clasped her to his bosom, the big tears went
dropping down his cheeks and his beard. And such a shout arose from all
the bystanders, that the startled horses pranced and capered, and the
armor rang and clattered, and the rocks of the mountain echoed back the
noises. The princess greeted them all as she nestled in her father's
bosom, and the king did not set her down until she had told them all the
story. But she had more to tell about Curdie than about herself, and
what she did tell about herself none of them could understand except the
king and Curdie, who stood by the king's knee stroking the neck of the
great white horse. And still as she told what Curdie had done, Sir
Walter and others added to what she told, even Lootie joining in the
praises of his courage and energy.

Curdie held his peace, looking quietly up in the king's face. And his
mother stood on the outskirts of the crowd listening with delight, for
her son's deeds were pleasant in her ears, until the princess caught
sight of her
she said
They all parted asunder as the king made a sign to her to come forward.
She obeyed, and he gave her his hand, but could not speak
the princess went on
said the king
And as he spoke he held her toward him.

The princess reached down, threw her arms round Curdie's neck, and
kissed him on the mouth, saying
Then they all went into the house, and the cook rushed to the kitchen,
and the servants to their work. Lootie dressed Irene in her shiningest
clothes, and the king put off his armor, and put on purple and gold; and
a messenger was sent for Peter and all the miners, and there was a great
and grand feast, which continued long after the princess was put to
bed
THE king's harper, who always formed a part of his escort, was chanting
a ballad which he made as he went on playing on his instrument -- about
the princess and the goblins, and the prowess of Curdie, when all at
once he ceased, with his eyes on one of the doors of the hall. Thereupon
the eyes of the king and his guests turned thitherward also. The next
moment, through the open doorway came the princess Irene. She went
straight up to her father, with her right hand stretched out a little
sideways, and her forefinger, as her father and Curdie understood,
feeling its way along the invisible thread. The king took her on his
knee, and she said in his ear
said the king
she said, holding up her forefinger.

The king listened, and a great stillness fell upon the company. Each
man, seeing that the king listened, listened also, and the harper sat
with his harp between his arms, and his fingers silent upon the strings
said the king at length
They all heard it now, and each seemed ready to start to his feet as he
listened. Yet all sat perfectly still. The noise came rapidly nearer
said the king again
said Sir
Walter.

Then Curdie, who at the first word of the king had slipped from his
seat, and laid his ear to the ground, rose up quickly, and approaching
the king said, speaking very fast
The king, who was the wisest man in the kingdom, knew well there was a
time when things must be done, and questions left till afterward. He had
faith in Curdie, and rose instantly, with Irene in his arms
he said, and strode out into the
darkness.

Before he had reached the gate, the noise had grown to a great
thundering roar, and the ground trembled beneath their feet, and before
the last of them had crossed the court, out after them from the great
hall-door came a huge rush of turbid water, and almost swept them away.
But they got safe out of the gate and up the mountain, while the torrent
went roaring down the road into the valley beneath.

Curdie had left the king and the princess to look after his mother, whom
he and his father, one on each side, caught up when the stream overtook
them and carried safe and dry.

When the king had got out of the way of the water, a little up the
mountain, he stood with the princess in his arms, looking back with
amazement on the issuing torrent, which glimmered fierce and foamy
through the night. There Curdie rejoined them
said the king
said Curdie; and proceeded to tell him about the
second scheme of the goblins, who, fancying the miners of more
importance to the upper world than they were, had resolved, if they
should fail in carrying off the king's daughter, to flood the mine and
drown the miners. Then he explained what the miners had done to prevent
it. The goblins had, in pursuance of their design, let loose all the
underground reservoirs and streams, expecting the water to run down into
the mine, which was lower than their part of the mountain, for they had,
as they supposed, not knowing of the solid wall close behind, broken a
passage through into it. But the readiest outlet the water could find
had turned out to be the tunnel they had made to the king's house, the
possibility of which catastrophe had not occurred to the mind of the
young miner until he placed his ear close to the floor of the hall.

What was then to be done? The house appeared in danger of falling, and
every moment the torrent was increasing
said the king
said Curdie
said the king.

Curdie gathered the men-at-arms, and took them over the garden wall, and
so to the stables. They found their horses in terror; the water was
rising fast around them, and it was quite time they were got out. But
there was no way to get them out, except by riding them through the
stream, which was now pouring from the lower windows as well as the
door. As one horse was quite enough for any man to manage through such a
torrent, Curdie got on the king's white charger, and leading the way,
brought them all in safety to the rising ground
cried Irene, the moment that, having dismounted,
he led the horse up to the king.

Curdie did look, and saw, high in the air, somewhere about the top of
the king's house, a great globe of light, shining like the purest
silver
he cried in some consternation
said Irene, smiling
said the
king.

Curdie took the princess again, and both turned their eyes to the globe
of light. The same moment there shot from it a white bird, which,
descending with outstretched wings, made one circle round the king and
Curdie and the princess, and then glided up again. The light and the
pigeon vanished together
said the princess, as he lifted her to her father's arms
said the king
Curdie was gone in a moment, and soon returned with a great rich fur,
and the news that dead goblins were tossing about in the current through
the house. They had been caught in their own snare; instead of the mine
they had flooded their own country, whence they were now swept up
drowned. Irene shuddered, but the king held her close to his bosom. Then
he turned to Sir Walter, and said
said the king, when they stood before him
Peter and his wife, overcome, only murmured almost inaudible thanks. But
Curdie spoke aloud
he said
cried the princess
The king looked at the princess and then at Curdie with a glow of
satisfaction on his countenance
he said
said Curdie
said his mother
said Curdie
said the king
said the princess
she added
said the king.

Then turning to the miners, he said
The miners with one voice promised their hospitality.

Then the king commanded his servants to mind whatever Curdie should say
to them, and after shaking hands with him and his father and mother, the
king and the princess and all their company rode away down the side of
the new stream which had already devoured half the road, into the starry
night
ALL the rest went up the mountain, and separated in groups to the homes
of the miners. Curdie and his father and mother took Lootie with them.
And the whole way, a light, of which all but Lootie understood the
origin, shone upon their path. But when they looked round they could see
nothing of the silvery globe.

For days and days the water continued to rush from the doors and windows
of the king's house, and a few goblin bodies were swept out into the
road.

Curdie saw that something must be done. He spoke to his father and the
rest of the miners, and they at once proceeded to make another outlet
for the waters. By setting all hands to the work, tunneling here and
building there, they soon succeeded; and having also made a little
tunnel to drain the water away from under the king's house, they were
soon able to get into the wine cellar, where they found a multitude of
dead goblins -- among the rest the queen, with the skin-shoe gone, and the
stone one fast to her ankle -- for the water had swept away the barricade
which prevented the men-at-arms from following the goblins, and had
greatly widened the passage. They built it securely up, and then went
back to their labors in the mine.

A good many of the goblins with their creatures escaped from the
inundation out upon the mountain. But most of them soon left that part
of the country, and most of those who remained grew milder in character,
and indeed became very much like the Scotch Brownies. Their skulls
became softer as well as their hearts, and their feet grew harder, and
by degrees they became friendly with the inhabitants of the mountain and
even with the miners. But the latter were merciless to any of the _cobs'
creatures_ that came their way, until at length they all but
disappeared. Still
THE END
</text>
