<text>
To my dear son Paul Bland,
               behind whose knowledge of railways
               my ignorance confidently shelters
They were not railway children to begin with. I don't suppose they had
ever thought about railways except as a means of getting to Maskelyne
and Cook's, the Pantomime, Zoological Gardens, and Madame Tussaud's.
They were just ordinary suburban children, and they lived with their
Father and Mother in an ordinary red-brick-fronted villa, with coloured
glass in the front door, a tiled passage that was called a hall, a
bath-room with hot and cold water, electric bells, French windows, and
a good deal of white paint, and 'every modern convenience', as the
house-agents say.

There were three of them. Roberta was the eldest. Of course, Mothers
never have favourites, but if their Mother HAD had a favourite, it might
have been Roberta. Next came Peter, who wished to be an Engineer when he
grew up; and the youngest was Phyllis, who meant extremely well.

Mother did not spend all her time in paying dull calls to dull ladies,
and sitting dully at home waiting for dull ladies to pay calls to her.
She was almost always there, ready to play with the children, and read
to them, and help them to do their home-lessons. Besides this she used
to write stories for them while they were at school, and read them
aloud after tea, and she always made up funny pieces of poetry for their
birthdays and for other great occasions, such as the christening of the
new kittens, or the refurnishing of the doll's house, or the time when
they were getting over the mumps.

These three lucky children always had everything they needed: pretty
clothes, good fires, a lovely nursery with heaps of toys, and a Mother
Goose wall-paper. They had a kind and merry nursemaid, and a dog who was
called James, and who was their very own. They also had a Father who was
just perfect -- never cross, never unjust, and always ready for a game -- at
least, if at any time he was NOT ready, he always had an excellent
reason for it, and explained the reason to the children so interestingly
and funnily that they felt sure he couldn't help himself.

You will think that they ought to have been very happy. And so they
were, but they did not know HOW happy till the pretty life in the Red
Villa was over and done with, and they had to live a very different life
indeed.

The dreadful change came quite suddenly.

Peter had a birthday -- his tenth. Among his other presents was a model
engine more perfect than you could ever have dreamed of. The other
presents were full of charm, but the Engine was fuller of charm than any
of the others were.

Its charm lasted in its full perfection for exactly three days. Then,
owing either to Peter's inexperience or Phyllis's good intentions, which
had been rather pressing, or to some other cause, the Engine suddenly
went off with a bang. James was so frightened that he went out and did
not come back all day. All the Noah's Ark people who were in the tender
were broken to bits, but nothing else was hurt except the poor little
engine and the feelings of Peter. The others said he cried over it -- but
of course boys of ten do not cry, however terrible the tragedies may be
which darken their lot. He said that his eyes were red because he had a
cold. This turned out to be true, though Peter did not know it was when
he said it, the next day he had to go to bed and stay there. Mother
began to be afraid that he might be sickening for measles, when suddenly
he sat up in bed and said
Mother asked
said Peter, eagerly
So Mother asked the Cook to make a large pigeon-pie. The pie was made.
And when the pie was made, it was cooked. And when it was cooked, Peter
ate some of it. After that his cold was better. Mother made a piece of
poetry to amuse him while the pie was being made. It began by saying
what an unfortunate but worthy boy Peter was, then it went on:

      He had an engine that he loved
        With all his heart and soul,
      And if he had a wish on earth
        It was to keep it whole.

      One day -- my friends, prepare your minds;
        I'm coming to the worst --
      Quite suddenly a screw went mad,
        And then the boiler burst!

      With gloomy face he picked it up
        And took it to his Mother,
      Though even he could not suppose
        That she could make another;

      For those who perished on the line
        He did not seem to care,
      His engine being more to him
        Than all the people there.

      And now you see the reason why
        Our Peter has been ill:
      He soothes his soul with pigeon-pie
        His gnawing grief to kill.

      He wraps himself in blankets warm
        And sleeps in bed till late,
      Determined thus to overcome
        His miserable fate.

      And if his eyes are rather red,
        His cold must just excuse it:
      Offer him pie; you may be sure
        He never will refuse it.

Father had been away in the country for three or four days. All Peter's
hopes for the curing of his afflicted Engine were now fixed on his
Father, for Father was most wonderfully clever with his fingers. He
could mend all sorts of things. He had often acted as veterinary surgeon
to the wooden rocking-horse; once he had saved its life when all human
aid was despaired of, and the poor creature was given up for lost, and
even the carpenter said he didn't see his way to do anything. And it was
Father who mended the doll's cradle when no one else could; and with a
little glue and some bits of wood and a pen-knife made all the Noah's
Ark beasts as strong on their pins as ever they were, if not stronger.

Peter, with heroic unselfishness, did not say anything about his Engine
till after Father had had his dinner and his after-dinner cigar. The
unselfishness was Mother's idea -- but it was Peter who carried it out.
And needed a good deal of patience, too.

At last Mother said to Father
said Father
So then Peter told the sad tale, and fetched what was left of the
Engine
said Father, when he had looked the Engine over very carefully.

The children held their breaths
said Peter, in a low, unsteady voice
said Father, cheerfully
Peter asked doubtfully
said Phyllis, in
unenthusiastic tones
said Roberta
said Daddy, pulling and twisting at the engine
Just then there was a knock at the front door
said Father
Ruth -- she was the parlour-maid and had red hair -- came in and said that
two gentlemen wanted to see the master
said she
said
Mother
But Father did not seem to be able to get rid of the gentlemen at all
quickly
said Roberta
Mother tried to make the time pass by telling them a new fairy story
about a Princess with green eyes, but it was difficult because they
could hear the voices of Father and the gentlemen in the Library, and
Father's voice sounded louder and different to the voice he generally
used to people who came about testimonials and holiday funds.

Then the Library bell rang, and everyone heaved a breath of relief
said Phyllis
But instead of showing anybody out, Ruth showed herself in, and she
looked queer, the children thought
she said
said Mother gently
Then Mother went into the Library. There was more talking. Then the bell
rang again, and Ruth fetched a cab. The children heard boots go out and
down the steps. The cab drove away, and the front door shut. Then Mother
came in. Her dear face was as white as her lace collar, and her eyes
looked very big and shining. Her mouth looked like just a line of pale
red -- her lips were thin and not their proper shape at all
she said
said Phyllis
said Mother
They kissed her and went. Roberta lingered to give Mother an extra hug
and to whisper
said Mother, and she almost seemed to push Roberta
away
So Roberta went.

Ruth brushed the girls' hair and helped them to undress. (Mother almost
always did this herself.) When she had turned down the gas and left them
she found Peter, still dressed, waiting on the stairs
he asked
the red-headed
Ruth replied
Late that night Mother came up and kissed all three children as they
lay asleep. But Roberta was the only one whom the kiss woke, and she lay
mousey-still, and said nothing
she said to
herself as she heard through the dark the catching of her Mother's
breath
When they came down to breakfast the next morning, Mother had already
gone out
Ruth said, and left them to their breakfast
said Peter, breaking his egg
said Roberta, with scorn
said Peter, angrily
said Roberta
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
cried Roberta, putting down her egg-spoon
said Peter.

Roberta made an effort, and answered
said Peter, triumphantly. But before he went to school he
thumped his sister between the shoulders and told her to cheer up.

The children came home to one o'clock dinner, but Mother was not there.
And she was not there at tea-time.

It was nearly seven before she came in, looking so ill and tired that
the children felt they could not ask her any questions. She sank into an
arm-chair. Phyllis took the long pins out of her hat, while Roberta took
off her gloves, and Peter unfastened her walking-shoes and fetched her
soft velvety slippers for her.

When she had had a cup of tea, and Roberta had put eau-de-Cologne on her
poor head that ached, Mother said
said Roberta, holding Mother's hand against her face
said Mother
Roberta and Peter exchanged guilty
glances
said everybody. And meant it, too
Mother went on
Peter cringed and shuffled his boots on the carpet
said Mother
said Peter, suddenly
said Mother
said Roberta
For Father
was in a Government Office
said Mother
said Phyllis
Mother sighed and kissed them
said Peter,
as they went upstairs
said Roberta
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Roberta
The girls folded up their clothes with more than usual neatness -- which
was the only way of being good that they could think of
said Phyllis, smoothing out her pinafore
said Roberta
Everything continued to be perfectly horrid for some weeks.

Mother was nearly always out. Meals were dull and dirty. The
between-maid was sent away, and Aunt Emma came on a visit. Aunt Emma was
much older than Mother. She was going abroad to be a governess. She
was very busy getting her clothes ready, and they were very ugly, dingy
clothes, and she had them always littering about, and the sewing-machine
seemed to whir -- on and on all day and most of the night. Aunt Emma
believed in keeping children in their proper places. And they more than
returned the compliment. Their idea of Aunt Emma's proper place was
anywhere where they were not. So they saw very little of her. They
preferred the company of the servants, who were more amusing. Cook,
if in a good temper, could sing comic songs, and the housemaid, if she
happened not to be offended with you, could imitate a hen that has laid
an egg, a bottle of champagne being opened, and could mew like two cats
fighting. The servants never told the children what the bad news was
that the gentlemen had brought to Father. But they kept hinting
that they could tell a great deal if they chose -- and this was not
comfortable.

One day when Peter had made a booby trap over the bath-room door, and
it had acted beautifully as Ruth passed through, that red-haired
parlour-maid caught him and boxed his ears
she said furiously
Roberta repeated this to her Mother, and next day Ruth was sent away.

Then came the time when Mother came home and went to bed and stayed
there two days and the Doctor came, and the children crept wretchedly
about the house and wondered if the world was coming to an end.

Mother came down one morning to breakfast, very pale and with lines
on her face that used not to be there. And she smiled, as well as she
could, and said
A whirling week of packing followed -- not just packing clothes, like when
you go to the seaside, but packing chairs and tables, covering their
tops with sacking and their legs with straw.

All sorts of things were packed that you don't pack when you go to
the seaside. Crockery, blankets, candlesticks, carpets, bedsteads,
saucepans, and even fenders and fire-irons.

The house was like a furniture warehouse. I think the children enjoyed
it very much. Mother was very busy, but not too busy now to talk to
them, and read to them, and even to make a bit of poetry for Phyllis to
cheer her up when she fell down with a screwdriver and ran it into her
hand
Roberta asked, pointing to the
beautiful cabinet inlaid with red turtleshell and brass
said Mother
said Roberta
said Mother
When all the ugly useful things had been packed up and taken away in a
van by men in green-baize aprons, the two girls and Mother and Aunt Emma
slept in the two spare rooms where the furniture was all pretty. All
their beds had gone. A bed was made up for Peter on the drawing-room
sofa
he said, wriggling joyously, as Mother tucked
him up
Mother laughed
she said
As she turned away Roberta saw her face. She never forgot it
she whispered all to herself as she got into bed
Next day boxes were filled, and boxes and more boxes; and then late in
the afternoon a cab came to take them to the station.

Aunt Emma saw them off. They felt that THEY were seeing HER off, and
they were glad of it
whispered Phyllis
At first they enjoyed looking out of the window, but when it grew dusk
they grew sleepier and sleepier, and no one knew how long they had been
in the train when they were roused by Mother's shaking them gently and
saying
They woke up, cold and melancholy, and stood shivering on the draughty
platform while the baggage was taken out of the train. Then the engine,
puffing and blowing, set to work again, and dragged the train away. The
children watched the tail-lights of the guard's van disappear into the
darkness.

This was the first train the children saw on that railway which was in
time to become so very dear to them. They did not guess then how they
would grow to love the railway, and how soon it would become the centre
of their new life, nor what wonders and changes it would bring to them.
They only shivered and sneezed and hoped the walk to the new house would
not be long. Peter's nose was colder than he ever remembered it to have
been before. Roberta's hat was crooked, and the elastic seemed tighter
than usual. Phyllis's shoe-laces had come undone
said Mother
The walk was dark and muddy. The children stumbled a little on the rough
road, and once Phyllis absently fell into a puddle, and was picked up
damp and unhappy. There were no gas-lamps on the road, and the road was
uphill. The cart went at a foot's pace, and they followed the gritty
crunch of its wheels. As their eyes got used to the darkness, they could
see the mound of boxes swaying dimly in front of them.

A long gate had to be opened for the cart to pass through, and after
that the road seemed to go across fields -- and now it went down hill.
Presently a great dark lumpish thing showed over to the right
said Mother
asked Roberta
There was a low wall, and trees inside
said Mother
said Peter.

The cart went on along by the garden wall, and round to the back of the
house, and here it clattered into a cobble-stoned yard and stopped at
the back door.

There was no light in any of the windows.

Everyone hammered at the door, but no one came.

The man who drove the cart said he expected Mrs. Viney had gone home
said he
said Mother
said the cart man
He took the lantern off his cart and stooped
he said.

He unlocked the door and went in and set his lantern on the table
said he
Mother spoke rather less cheerfully
than usual.

He struck a match. There was a candle on the table, and he lighted it.
By its thin little glimmer the children saw a large bare kitchen with
a stone floor. There were no curtains, no hearth-rug. The kitchen
table from home stood in the middle of the room. The chairs were in one
corner, and the pots, pans, brooms, and crockery in another. There was
no fire, and the black grate showed cold, dead ashes.

As the cart man turned to go out after he had brought in the boxes,
there was a rustling, scampering sound that seemed to come from inside
the walls of the house
cried the girls
said the cart man. And he went away and shut the
door, and the sudden draught of it blew out the candle
said Phyllis
and she knocked a
chair over
said Peter, in the dark
said Mother, in the dark, feeling for the matches on the
table
She struck a match and relighted the candle and everyone looked at each
other by its winky, blinky light
she said
The dining-room opened out of the kitchen. It looked much darker than
the kitchen when they went in with the one candle. Because the kitchen
was whitewashed, but the dining-room was dark wood from floor to
ceiling, and across the ceiling there were heavy black beams. There was
a muddled maze of dusty furniture -- the breakfast-room furniture from
the old home where they had lived all their lives. It seemed a very long
time ago, and a very long way off.

There was the table certainly, and there were chairs, but there was no
supper
said Mother; and they looked. And in
each room was the same kind of blundering half-arrangement of furniture,
and fire-irons and crockery, and all sorts of odd things on the floor,
but there was nothing to eat; even in the pantry there were only a rusty
cake-tin and a broken plate with whitening mixed in it
said Mother
asked Phyllis, dismayed,
stepping back on to a soap-dish that cracked responsively
said Mother
The cellar door opened out of the kitchen. There were five wooden steps
leading down. It wasn't a proper cellar at all, the children thought,
because its ceiling went up as high as the kitchen's. A bacon-rack hung
under its ceiling. There was wood in it, and coal. Also the big cases.

Peter held the candle, all on one side, while Mother tried to open the
great packing-case. It was very securely nailed down
asked Peter
said Mother
And with these she tried to get the case open
said Peter, thinking he could do it better himself.
Everyone thinks this when he sees another person stirring a fire, or
opening a box, or untying a knot in a bit of string
said Roberta
said Phyllis
said Roberta.

Just then the first of the long nails in the packing-case began to come
out with a scrunch. Then a lath was raised and then another, till all
four stood up with the long nails in them shining fiercely like iron
teeth in the candle-light
said Mother
said Mother, gaily
So the girls lighted candles. The head of the first match flew off and
stuck to Phyllis's finger; but, as Roberta said, it was only a little
burn, and she might have had to be a Roman martyr and be burned whole if
she had happened to live in the days when those things were fashionable.

Then, when the dining-room was lighted by fourteen candles, Roberta
fetched coal and wood and lighted a fire
she said, feeling what a grown-up thing it was
to say.

The fire-light and the candle-light made the dining-room look very
different, for now you could see that the dark walls were of wood,
carved here and there into little wreaths and loops.

The girls hastily 'tidied' the room, which meant putting the chairs
against the wall, and piling all the odds and ends into a corner and
partly hiding them with the big leather arm-chair that Father used to
sit in after dinner
cried Mother, coming in with a tray full of things
The tablecloth was in a box with a proper lock that was opened with a
key and not with a shovel, and when the cloth was spread on the table, a
real feast was laid out on it.

Everyone was very, very tired, but everyone cheered up at the sight of
the funny and delightful supper. There were biscuits, the Marie and the
plain kind, sardines, preserved ginger, cooking raisins, and candied
peel and marmalade
said Mother
said Phyllis, and put it down among the Marie
biscuits
said Roberta, suddenly
And the toast was drunk in ginger wine and water, out of
willow-patterned tea-cups, because the glasses couldn't be found.

They all felt that they had been a little hard on Aunt Emma. She wasn't
a nice cuddly person like Mother, but after all it was she who had
thought of packing up the odds and ends of things to eat.

It was Aunt Emma, too, who had aired all the sheets ready; and the men
who had moved the furniture had put the bedsteads together, so the beds
were soon made
said Mother
Then she went to her own room. Roberta woke to hear the little
travelling clock chime two. It sounded like a church clock ever so far
away, she always thought. And she heard, too, Mother still moving about
in her room.

Next morning Roberta woke Phyllis by pulling her hair gently, but quite
enough for her purpose
asked Phyllis, still almost wholly asleep
said Roberta
So they dressed quietly and quickly. Of course, there was no water in
their room, so when they got down they washed as much as they thought
was necessary under the spout of the pump in the yard. One pumped and
the other washed. It was splashy but interesting
said Roberta
The roof of the back kitchen sloped down quite low. It was made
of thatch and it had moss on it, and house-leeks and stonecrop and
wallflowers, and even a clump of purple flag-flowers, at the far corner
said
Phyllis
said Roberta, with earnest energy
They lighted the fire and put the kettle on, and they arranged the
crockery for breakfast; they could not find all the right things, but
a glass ash-tray made an excellent salt-cellar, and a newish baking-tin
seemed as if it would do to put bread on, if they had any.

When there seemed to be nothing more that they could do, they went out
again into the fresh bright morning
said Peter. But somehow they couldn't
find the garden. They went round the house and round the house. The yard
occupied the back, and across it were stables and outbuildings. On the
other three sides the house stood simply in a field, without a yard
of garden to divide it from the short smooth turf. And yet they had
certainly seen the garden wall the night before.

It was a hilly country. Down below they could see the line of the
railway, and the black yawning mouth of a tunnel. The station was out of
sight. There was a great bridge with tall arches running across one end
of the valley
said Peter
said Roberta, slowly
So they all sat down on a great flat grey stone that had pushed itself
up out of the grass; it was one of many that lay about on the hillside,
and when Mother came out to look for them at eight o'clock, she found
them deeply asleep in a contented, sun-warmed bunch.

They had made an excellent fire, and had set the kettle on it at about
half-past five. So that by eight the fire had been out for some time,
the water had all boiled away, and the bottom was burned out of the
kettle. Also they had not thought of washing the crockery before they
set the table
said Mother
The forgotten room opened out of the kitchen. In the agitation and half
darkness the night before its door had been mistaken for a cupboard's.
It was a little square room, and on its table, all nicely set out, was a
joint of cold roast beef, with bread, butter, cheese, and a pie
cried Peter
said Mother
That was a wonderful breakfast. It is unusual to begin the day with
cold apple pie, but the children all said they would rather have it than
meat
said Peter,
passing his plate for more
The day passed in helping Mother to unpack and arrange things. Six small
legs quite ached with running about while their owners carried clothes
and crockery and all sorts of things to their proper places. It was not
till quite late in the afternoon that Mother said
Then they all looked at each other. Each of the three expressive
countenances expressed the same thought. That thought was double,
and consisted, like the bits of information in the Child's Guide to
Knowledge, of a question and an answer.

Q. Where shall we go?

A. To the railway.

So to the railway they went, and as soon as they started for the railway
they saw where the garden had hidden itself. It was right behind the
stables, and it had a high wall all round
cried Peter
The way to the railway was all down hill over smooth, short turf with
here and there furze bushes and grey and yellow rocks sticking out like
candied peel from the top of a cake.

The way ended in a steep run and a wooden fence -- and there was the
railway with the shining metals and the telegraph wires and posts and
signals.

They all climbed on to the top of the fence, and then suddenly there was
a rumbling sound that made them look along the line to the right, where
the dark mouth of a tunnel opened itself in the face of a rocky cliff;
next moment a train had rushed out of the tunnel with a shriek and
a snort, and had slid noisily past them. They felt the rush of its
passing, and the pebbles on the line jumped and rattled under it as it
went by
said Roberta, drawing a long breath
said Phyllis.

But Peter said
said Roberta.

(I am tired of calling Roberta by her name. I don't see why I should.
No one else did. Everyone else called her Bobbie, and I don't see why I
shouldn't
said Peter
said Phyllis
Bobbie said
said Peter.

So they went.

They walked along the edge of the line, and heard the telegraph wires
humming over their heads. When you are in the train, it seems such a
little way between post and post, and one after another the posts seem
to catch up the wires almost more quickly than you can count them. But
when you have to walk, the posts seem few and far between.

But the children got to the station at last.

Never before had any of them been at a station, except for the purpose
of catching trains -- or perhaps waiting for them -- and always with
grown-ups in attendance, grown-ups who were not themselves interested in
stations, except as places from which they wished to get away.

Never before had they passed close enough to a signal-box to be able to
notice the wires, and to hear the mysterious
followed by
the strong, firm clicking of machinery.

The very sleepers on which the rails lay were a delightful path to
travel by -- just far enough apart to serve as the stepping-stones in a
game of foaming torrents hastily organised by Bobbie.

Then to arrive at the station, not through the booking office, but in
a freebooting sort of way by the sloping end of the platform. This in
itself was joy.

Joy, too, it was to peep into the porters' room, where the lamps are,
and the Railway almanac on the wall, and one porter half asleep behind a
paper.

There were a great many crossing lines at the station; some of them just
ran into a yard and stopped short, as though they were tired of business
and meant to retire for good. Trucks stood on the rails here, and on one
side was a great heap of coal -- not a loose heap, such as you see in your
coal cellar, but a sort of solid building of coals with large square
blocks of coal outside used just as though they were bricks, and built
up till the heap looked like the picture of the Cities of the Plain in
There was a line of whitewash near the top
of the coaly wall.

When presently the Porter lounged out of his room at the twice-repeated
tingling thrill of a gong over the station door, Peter said
in his best manner, and hastened to ask what the white mark was on
the coal for
said the Porter
This seemed, at the time but a merry jest, and Peter felt at once that
the Porter was a friendly sort with no nonsense about him. But later the
words came back to Peter with a new meaning.

Have you ever gone into a farmhouse kitchen on a baking day, and seen
the great crock of dough set by the fire to rise? If you have, and if
you were at that time still young enough to be interested in everything
you saw, you will remember that you found yourself quite unable to
resist the temptation to poke your finger into the soft round of dough
that curved inside the pan like a giant mushroom. And you will remember
that your finger made a dent in the dough, and that slowly, but quite
surely, the dent disappeared, and the dough looked quite the same as it
did before you touched it. Unless, of course, your hand was extra dirty,
in which case, naturally, there would be a little black mark.

Well, it was just like that with the sorrow the children had felt at
Father's going away, and at Mother's being so unhappy. It made a deep
impression, but the impression did not last long.

They soon got used to being without Father, though they did not forget
him; and they got used to not going to school, and to seeing very little
of Mother, who was now almost all day shut up in her upstairs room
writing, writing, writing. She used to come down at tea-time and read
aloud the stories she had written. They were lovely stories.

The rocks and hills and valleys and trees, the canal, and above all, the
railway, were so new and so perfectly pleasing that the remembrance of
the old life in the villa grew to seem almost like a dream.

Mother had told them more than once that they were
but
this did not seem to be anything but a way of speaking. Grown-up people,
even Mothers, often make remarks that don't seem to mean anything in
particular, just for the sake of saying something, seemingly. There was
always enough to eat, and they wore the same kind of nice clothes they
had always worn.

But in June came three wet days; the rain came down, straight as lances,
and it was very, very cold. Nobody could go out, and everybody shivered.
They all went up to the door of Mother's room and knocked
asked Mother from inside
said Bobbie
And Mother said
said Mother, cheerfully
said Phyllis, in a whisper to Peter. Peter
did not answer. He shrugged his shoulders. He was thinking.

Thought, however, could not long keep itself from the suitable
furnishing of a bandit's lair in the attic. Peter was the bandit, of
course. Bobbie was his lieutenant, his band of trusty robbers, and, in
due course, the parent of Phyllis, who was the captured maiden for whom
a magnificent ransom -- in horse-beans -- was unhesitatingly paid.

They all went down to tea flushed and joyous as any mountain brigands.

But when Phyllis was going to add jam to her bread and butter, Mother
said
Phyllis finished the slice of bread and butter in silence, and followed
it up by bread and jam. Peter mingled thought and weak tea.

After tea they went back to the attic and he said to his sisters
they asked politely
was Peter's unexpected rejoinder
said Bobbie; and Phil said
said Peter
said Bobbie, with fine disdain
said Peter, keeping his own temper by what
looked exactly like a miracle
And it was, indeed, some time before he could be induced to say
anything, and when he did it wasn't much. He said
said Bobbie
But
Phyllis said
said Peter, rather touched by this devotion
said Bobbie, indignantly
said Peter, dropping horse-beans through his
fingers
said Bobbie
Peter
condescended to promise
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
said Peter.

Between tea and supper there is an interval even in the most greedily
regulated families. At this time Mother was usually writing, and Mrs.
Viney had gone home.

Two nights after the dawning of Peter's idea he beckoned the girls
mysteriously at the twilight hour
he said
The Roman Chariot was a very old perambulator that had spent years of
retirement in the loft over the coach-house. The children had oiled its
works till it glided noiseless as a pneumatic bicycle, and answered to
the helm as it had probably done in its best days
said Peter, and led the way down the
hill towards the station.

Just above the station many rocks have pushed their heads out through
the turf as though they, like the children, were interested in the
railway.

In a little hollow between three rocks lay a heap of dried brambles and
heather.

Peter halted, turned over the brushwood with a well-scarred boot, and
said
The chariot was packed full of coal. And when it was packed it had to
be unpacked again because it was so heavy that it couldn't be got up the
hill by the three children, not even when Peter harnessed himself to the
handle with his braces, and firmly grasping his waistband in one hand
pulled while the girls pushed behind.

Three journeys had to be made before the coal from Peter's mine was
added to the heap of Mother's coal in the cellar.

Afterwards Peter went out alone, and came back very black and
mysterious
he said
It was a week later that Mrs. Viney remarked to Mother how well this
last lot of coal was holding out.

The children hugged themselves and each other in complicated wriggles of
silent laughter as they listened on the stairs. They had all forgotten
by now that there had ever been any doubt in Peter's mind as to whether
coal-mining was wrong.

But there came a dreadful night when the Station Master put on a pair
of old sand shoes that he had worn at the seaside in his summer holiday,
and crept out very quietly to the yard where the Sodom and Gomorrah heap
of coal was, with the whitewashed line round it. He crept out there, and
he waited like a cat by a mousehole. On the top of the heap something
small and dark was scrabbling and rattling furtively among the coal.

The Station Master concealed himself in the shadow of a brake-van that
had a little tin chimney and was labelled:--

     G. N. and S. R.
          34576
    Return at once to
  White Heather Sidings

and in this concealment he lurked till the small thing on the top of
the heap ceased to scrabble and rattle, came to the edge of the heap,
cautiously let itself down, and lifted something after it. Then the arm
of the Station Master was raised, the hand of the Station Master fell
on a collar, and there was Peter firmly held by the jacket, with an old
carpenter's bag full of coal in his trembling clutch
said the Station
Master
said Peter, as firmly as he could
said the Station Master
said Peter
said the man, who held him
cried in the darkness an agonised voice that was not Peter's
said another voice from the darkness
said the Station Master
said Bobbie and Phyllis, coming out of the shadow of another
truck labelled Staveley Colliery, and bearing on it the legend in white
chalk
said Peter, angrily
said the Station Master
said Bobbie
said Peter
said Bobbie
Peter's cup was full. He had mined for coal, he had struck coal, he had
been caught, and now he learned that his sisters had 'humoured' him
he said
The Station Master loosed Peter's collar, struck a match and looked at
them by its flickering light
said he
He spoke much more gently now, and
Peter said
said
Peter, indignantly
The Station Master's voice was so much kinder now
that Peter replied
interrupted Bobbie, in a whisper
said the Station Master, rubbing his chin thoughtfully
said Peter, with enthusiasm
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said the Station Master.

And on this they parted
said Peter, as the three went up the hill
But the girls were too glad to have Peter between them, safe and free,
and on the way to Three Chimneys and not to the Police Station, to mind
much what he said
said Bobbie, gently
said
Phyllis
She took his arm, and he let her
he went on
said Bobbie
said Peter, plucking up a spirit
But the girls were quite sure. And they were also quite sure that he was
quite sure, however little he cared to own it
After the adventure of Peter's Coal-mine, it seemed well to the children
to keep away from the station -- but they did not, they could not, keep
away from the railway. They had lived all their lives in a street where
cabs and omnibuses rumbled by at all hours, and the carts of butchers
and bakers and candlestick makers (I never saw a candlestick-maker's
cart; did you?) might occur at any moment. Here in the deep silence of
the sleeping country the only things that went by were the trains. They
seemed to be all that was left to link the children to the old life that
had once been theirs. Straight down the hill in front of Three Chimneys
the daily passage of their six feet began to mark a path across the
crisp, short turf. They began to know the hours when certain trains
passed, and they gave names to them. The 9.15 up was called the Green
Dragon. The 10.7 down was the Worm of Wantley. The midnight town
express, whose shrieking rush they sometimes woke from their dreams
to hear, was the Fearsome Fly-by-night. Peter got up once, in chill
starshine, and, peeping at it through his curtains, named it on the
spot.

It was by the Green Dragon that the old gentleman travelled. He was a
very nice-looking old gentleman, and he looked as if he were nice,
too, which is not at all the same thing. He had a fresh-coloured,
clean-shaven face and white hair, and he wore rather odd-shaped collars
and a top-hat that wasn't exactly the same kind as other people's. Of
course the children didn't see all this at first. In fact the first
thing they noticed about the old gentleman was his hand.

It was one morning as they sat on the fence waiting for the Green
Dragon, which was three and a quarter minutes late by Peter's Waterbury
watch that he had had given him on his last birthday
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
Phyllis suggested
So when the Green Dragon tore shrieking out of the mouth of its dark
lair, which was the tunnel, all three children stood on the railing and
waved their pocket-handkerchiefs without stopping to think whether they
were clean handkerchiefs or the reverse. They were, as a matter of fact,
very much the reverse.

And out of a first-class carriage a hand waved back. A quite clean hand.
It held a newspaper. It was the old gentleman's hand.

After this it became the custom for waves to be exchanged between the
children and the 9.15.

And the children, especially the girls, liked to think that perhaps the
old gentleman knew Father, and would meet him
wherever
that shady retreat might be, and tell him how his three children stood
on a rail far away in the green country and waved their love to him
every morning, wet or fine.

For they were now able to go out in all sorts of weather such as they
would never have been allowed to go out in when they lived in their
villa house. This was Aunt Emma's doing, and the children felt more and
more that they had not been quite fair to this unattractive aunt, when
they found how useful were the long gaiters and waterproof coats that
they had laughed at her for buying for them.

Mother, all this time, was very busy with her writing. She used to send
off a good many long blue envelopes with stories in them -- and large
envelopes of different sizes and colours used to come to her. Sometimes
she would sigh when she opened them and say
and then the
children would be very sorry.

But sometimes she would wave the envelope in the air and say
At first the children thought 'the Proof' meant the letter the sensible
Editor had written, but they presently got to know that the proof was
long slips of paper with the story printed on them.

Whenever an Editor was sensible there were buns for tea.

One day Peter was going down to the village to get buns to celebrate
the sensibleness of the Editor of the Children's Globe, when he met the
Station Master.

Peter felt very uncomfortable, for he had now had time to think over the
affair of the coal-mine. He did not like to say "Good morning" to the
Station Master, as you usually do to anyone you meet on a lonely road,
because he had a hot feeling, which spread even to his ears, that the
Station Master might not care to speak to a person who had stolen coals.
'Stolen' is a nasty word, but Peter felt it was the right one. So he
looked down, and said Nothing.

It was the Station Master who said "Good morning" as he passed by. And
Peter answered
Then he thought
And he did not like the feeling which thinking this gave him. And then
before he knew what he was going to do he ran after the Station Master,
who stopped when he heard Peter's hasty boots crunching the road,
and coming up with him very breathless and with his ears now quite
magenta-coloured, he said
said the Station Master
Peter went on
said the Station Master
said Peter
said the Station Master
said Peter, confidentially
said the Station Master
said Peter
said Peter
said the Station Master
said Peter
And he went on across the canal bridge to the village to
get the buns, feeling more comfortable in his mind than he had felt
since the hand of the Station Master had fastened on his collar that
night among the coals.

Next day when they had sent the threefold wave of greeting to Father by
the Green Dragon, and the old gentleman had waved back as usual, Peter
proudly led the way to the station
said Bobbie
Phyllis explained
said Peter, in an offhand way,
and he pretended not to hear what Phyllis had said
repeated Phyllis
said Peter
Phyllis did up her bootlace and went on in silence, but her shoulders
shook, and presently a fat tear fell off her nose and splashed on the
metal of the railway line. Bobbie saw it
she said, stopping short and putting
her arm round the heaving shoulders
sobbed Phyllis
Peter had indeed perpetrated this outrage a year or two before
said Bobbie, honestly
said Phyllis, sniffling
said Peter
said Phyllis, indignantly
said Peter, impatiently
They reached the station and spent a joyous two hours with the Porter.
He was a worthy man and seemed never tired of answering the questions
that begin with
which many people in higher ranks of life often
seem weary of.

He told them many things that they had not known before -- as, for
instance, that the things that hook carriages together are called
couplings, and that the pipes like great serpents that hang over the
couplings are meant to stop the train with
said he
said Phyllis
said the Porter. After that the train was never
again 'It' to the children
said Roberta
said he
replied the Porter
In such delightful conversation the time went by all too quickly.

The Station Master came out once or twice from that sacred inner temple
behind the place where the hole is that they sell you tickets through,
and was most jolly with them all
Phyllis whispered to her
sister.

He gave them each an orange, and promised to take them up into the
signal-box one of these days, when he wasn't so busy.

Several trains went through the station, and Peter noticed for the first
time that engines have numbers on them, like cabs
said the Porter
Peter felt that he could take down numbers, too, even if he was not
the son of a wholesale stationer. As he did not happen to have a green
leather note-book with silver corners, the Porter gave him a yellow
envelope and on it he noted:--

     379
     663

and felt that this was the beginning of what would be a most interesting
collection.

That night at tea he asked Mother if she had a green leather note-book
with silver corners. She had not; but when she heard what he wanted it
for she gave him a little black one
said she
asked Peter, after a gloomy
pause, in which glances of despair were exchanged
said Mother.

Then Phyllis said
Mother was an honest and honourable Mother, so she had to say
said Phyllis
Phyllis asked. Bobbie made signs to her to stop, but Phyllis never did
see signs, no matter how plain they might be.

Mother did not answer for a minute. She got up to put more water in the
teapot
she said at last
Then she was quiet again, and Bobbie kicked Phyllis hard under the
table, because Bobbie understood a little bit the thoughts that were
making Mother so quiet -- the thoughts of the time when Mother was a
little girl and was all the world to HER mother. It seems so easy and
natural to run to Mother when one is in trouble. Bobbie understood a
little how people do not leave off running to their mothers when they
are in trouble even when they are grown up, and she thought she knew a
little what it must be to be sad, and have no mother to run to any more.

So she kicked Phyllis, who said
And then Mother laughed a little and sighed and said
said Peter
said Mother, and I dare say you think that she ought not
to have said it. But she remembered about when she was a little girl
herself, and she did say it -- and neither her own children nor you nor
any other children in the world could ever understand exactly what it
cost her to do it. Only some few of you, like Bobbie, may understand a
very little bit.

It was the very next day that Mother had to stay in bed because her head
ached so. Her hands were burning hot, and she would not eat anything,
and her throat was very sore
said Mrs. Viney
Mother wouldn't at first, but in the evening she felt so much worse that
Peter was sent to the house in the village that had three laburnum trees
by the gate, and on the gate a brass plate with W. W. Forrest, M.D., on
it.

W. W. Forrest, M.D., came at once. He talked to Peter on the way back.
He seemed a most charming and sensible man, interested in railways, and
rabbits, and really important things.

When he had seen Mother, he said it was influenza
he said in the hall to Bobbie
said she
She asked him to write it all down, and he did.

When Bobbie showed Mother the list he had written, Mother laughed. It
WAS a laugh, Bobbie decided, though it was rather odd and feeble
said Mother, laying in bed with eyes as bright as beads
Roberta obeyed. When she had done everything she could to make Mother
less uncomfortable, she went down to the others. Her cheeks were very
red, her lips set tight, and her eyes almost as bright as Mother's.

She told them what the Doctor had said, and what Mother had said
said she, when she had told all
said Peter
said his sister. And Mrs. Viney was sent to the village to
get as much brandy and soda-water and beef tea as she could buy for a
shilling
said Phyllis
said Bobbie, frowning
They did think. And presently they talked. And later, when Bobbie had
gone up to sit with Mother in case she wanted anything, the other two
were very busy with scissors and a white sheet, and a paint brush, and
the pot of Brunswick black that Mrs. Viney used for grates and fenders.
They did not manage to do what they wished, exactly, with the first
sheet, so they took another out of the linen cupboard. It did not occur
to them that they were spoiling good sheets which cost good money. They
only knew that they were making a good -- but what they were making comes
later.

Bobbie's bed had been moved into Mother's room, and several times in
the night she got up to mend the fire, and to give her mother milk and
soda-water. Mother talked to herself a good deal, but it did not seem
to mean anything. And once she woke up suddenly and called out
and Bobbie knew she was calling for Granny, and that she had
forgotten that it was no use calling, because Granny was dead.

In the early morning Bobbie heard her name and jumped out of bed and ran
to Mother's bedside
said Mother
said Bobbie
Mother said
And Bobbie said
and tried to smile.

When you are used to ten hours of solid sleep, to get up three or four
times in your sleep-time makes you feel as though you had been up all
night. Bobbie felt quite stupid and her eyes were sore and stiff, but
she tidied the room, and arranged everything neatly before the Doctor
came.

This was at half-past eight
he said at the front
door
said Bobbie
said he
said Bobbie, firmly
he asked
said the Doctor
He was really quite a nice doctor.

When the 9.15 came out of the tunnel that morning the old gentleman in
the first-class carriage put down his newspaper, and got ready to wave
his hand to the three children on the fence. But this morning there were
not three. There was only one. And that was Peter.

Peter was not on the railings either, as usual. He was standing in front
of them in an attitude like that of a show-man showing off the animals
in a menagerie, or of the kind clergyman when he points with a wand at
the
when there is a magic-lantern and he is
explaining it.

Peter was pointing, too. And what he was pointing at was a large white
sheet nailed against the fence. On the sheet there were thick black
letters more than a foot long.

Some of them had run a little, because of Phyllis having put the
Brunswick black on too eagerly, but the words were quite easy to read.

And this what the old gentleman and several other people in the train
read in the large black letters on the white sheet:--

     LOOK OUT AT THE STATION.

A good many people did look out at the station and were disappointed,
for they saw nothing unusual. The old gentleman looked out, too, and at
first he too saw nothing more unusual than the gravelled platform and
the sunshine and the wallflowers and forget-me-nots in the station
borders. It was only just as the train was beginning to puff and pull
itself together to start again that he saw Phyllis. She was quite out of
breath with running
she said
She thrust a warm, dampish letter into his hand as the train moved.

He leaned back in his corner and opened the letter. This is what he
read:--

"Dear Mr. We do not know your name.

Mother is ill and the doctor says to give her the things at the end of
the letter, but she says she can't aford it, and to get mutton for
us and she will have the broth. We do not know anybody here but you,
because Father is away and we do not know the address. Father will pay
you, or if he has lost all his money, or anything, Peter will pay you
when he is a man. We promise it on our honer. I.O.U. for all the things
Mother wants.

     "sined Peter.

"Will you give the parsel to the Station Master, because of us not
knowing what train you come down by? Say it is for Peter that was sorry
about the coals and he will know all right.

     "Roberta.
     "Phyllis
Then came the list of things the Doctor had ordered.

The old gentleman read it through once, and his eyebrows went up. He
read it twice and smiled a little. When he had read it thrice, he put it
in his pocket and went on reading The Times.

At about six that evening there was a knock at the back door. The three
children rushed to open it, and there stood the friendly Porter, who had
told them so many interesting things about railways. He dumped down a
big hamper on the kitchen flags
he said
said Peter, and then, as the Porter lingered, he
added
said the Porter, indignantly
said he, and produced a bunch of sweetbrier from his
hat
as Phyllis remarked afterwards
said Peter
said the Porter, untruly but politely, and went.

Then the children undid the hamper. First there was straw, and then
there were fine shavings, and then came all the things they had asked
for, and plenty of them, and then a good many things they had not asked
for; among others peaches and port wine and two chickens, a cardboard
box of big red roses with long stalks, and a tall thin green bottle
of lavender water, and three smaller fatter bottles of eau-de-Cologne.
There was a letter, too
it said
The letter was signed G. P. something that the children couldn't read
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
said Peter, with his hands in his pockets
said Bobbie
said Phyllis, sniffing it loudly
said Roberta
What was left of the second sheet and the Brunswick black came in very
nicely to make a banner bearing the legend

     SHE IS NEARLY WELL THANK YOU

and this was displayed to the Green Dragon about a fortnight after the
arrival of the wonderful hamper. The old gentleman saw it, and waved
a cheerful response from the train. And when this had been done the
children saw that now was the time when they must tell Mother what they
had done when she was ill. And it did not seem nearly so easy as they
had thought it would be. But it had to be done. And it was done. Mother
was extremely angry. She was seldom angry, and now she was angrier than
they had ever known her. This was horrible. But it was much worse when
she suddenly began to cry. Crying is catching, I believe, like measles
and whooping-cough. At any rate, everyone at once found itself taking
part in a crying-party.

Mother stopped first. She dried her eyes and then she said
sobbed Bobbie, and Peter and
Phyllis sniffed
said Mother
They all hugged her and rubbed their damp cheeks against hers and
promised that they would
Afterwards, when the children were alone, Bobbie said
said Peter
said Phyllis
They took the letter down to the Station Master
said
he
said Peter
Then the Station Master retired to that sacred inner temple behind the
little window where the tickets are sold, and the children went down
to the Porters' room and talked to the Porter. They learned several
interesting things from him -- among others that his name was Perks,
that he was married and had three children, that the lamps in front of
engines are called head-lights and the ones at the back tail-lights
whispered Phyllis
It was on this day that the children first noticed that all engines are
not alike
said the Porter, whose name was Perks
said Phyllis
said the Porter
said Phyllis
said Perks
The children agreed as they went home to dinner that the Porter was most
delightful company.

Next day was Roberta's birthday. In the afternoon she was politely but
firmly requested to get out of the way and keep there till tea-time
said Phyllis.

And Roberta went out into the garden all alone. She tried to be
grateful, but she felt she would much rather have helped in whatever it
was than have to spend her birthday afternoon by herself, no matter how
glorious the surprise might be.

Now that she was alone, she had time to think, and one of the things she
thought of most was what mother had said in one of those feverish nights
when her hands were so hot and her eyes so bright.

The words were
She walked round and round the garden among the rose-bushes that hadn't
any roses yet, only buds, and the lilac bushes and syringas and American
currants, and the more she thought of the doctor's bill, the less she
liked the thought of it.

And presently she made up her mind. She went out through the side door
of the garden and climbed up the steep field to where the road runs
along by the canal. She walked along until she came to the bridge that
crosses the canal and leads to the village, and here she waited. It was
very pleasant in the sunshine to lean one's elbows on the warm stone
of the bridge and look down at the blue water of the canal. Bobbie had
never seen any other canal, except the Regent's Canal, and the water of
that is not at all a pretty colour. And she had never seen any river at
all except the Thames, which also would be all the better if its face
was washed.

Perhaps the children would have loved the canal as much as the railway,
but for two things. One was that they had found the railway FIRST -- on
that first, wonderful morning when the house and the country and the
moors and rocks and great hills were all new to them. They had not found
the canal till some days later. The other reason was that everyone on
the railway had been kind to them -- the Station Master, the Porter, and
the old gentleman who waved. And the people on the canal were anything
but kind.

The people on the canal were, of course, the bargees, who steered the
slow barges up and down, or walked beside the old horses that trampled
up the mud of the towing-path, and strained at the long tow-ropes.

Peter had once asked one of the bargees the time, and had been told
to
in a tone so fierce that he did not stop to say
anything about his having just as much right on the towing-path as the
man himself. Indeed, he did not even think of saying it till some time
later.

Then another day when the children thought they would like to fish in
the canal, a boy in a barge threw lumps of coal at them, and one of
these hit Phyllis on the back of the neck. She was just stooping down to
tie up her bootlace -- and though the coal hardly hurt at all it made her
not care very much about going on fishing.

On the bridge, however, Roberta felt quite safe, because she could look
down on the canal, and if any boy showed signs of meaning to throw coal,
she could duck behind the parapet.

Presently there was a sound of wheels, which was just what she expected.

The wheels were the wheels of the Doctor's dogcart, and in the cart, of
course, was the Doctor.

He pulled up, and called out
said Bobbie
said the Doctor
Roberta climbed in and the brown horse was made to turn round -- which it
did not like at all, for it was looking forward to its tea -- I mean its
oats
said Bobbie, as the dogcart flew along the road by the
canal
said the
Doctor, as they passed the house
said Bobbie
said the Doctor
Bobbie fidgeted with the hook of the driving apron
said the Doctor
said Bobbie
said the Doctor, cheerfully
The Doctor was silent. He was rather poor himself, and he had been
pleased at getting a new family to attend. So I think his feelings at
that minute were rather mixed
said Bobbie, in a very small voice.

The Doctor roused himself
asked Bobbie
said the Doctor
The road rose to a bridge over the canal. To the left was a steep rocky
cliff with trees and shrubs growing in the cracks of the rock. And the
canal here left off running along the top of the hill and started to run
on a bridge of its own -- a great bridge with tall arches that went right
across the valley.

Bobbie drew a long breath
she said
said the Doctor
When Bobbie had parted from the Doctor at the top of the field that ran
down from the road to Three Chimneys, she could not feel that she had
done wrong. She knew that Mother would perhaps think differently.
But Bobbie felt that for once she was the one who was right, and she
scrambled down the rocky slope with a really happy feeling.

Phyllis and Peter met her at the back door. They were unnaturally clean
and neat, and Phyllis had a red bow in her hair. There was only just
time for Bobbie to make herself tidy and tie up her hair with a blue bow
before a little bell rang
said Phyllis
So Bobbie waited
said the little bell, and Bobbie went into the
dining-room, feeling rather shy. Directly she opened the door she found
herself, as it seemed, in a new world of light and flowers and singing.
Mother and Peter and Phyllis were standing in a row at the end of the
table. The shutters were shut and there were twelve candles on the
table, one for each of Roberta's years. The table was covered with a
sort of pattern of flowers, and at Roberta's place was a thick wreath of
forget-me-nots and several most interesting little packages. And Mother
and Phyllis and Peter were singing -- to the first part of the tune of St.
Patrick's Day. Roberta knew that Mother had written the words on purpose
for her birthday. It was a little way of Mother's on birthdays. It
had begun on Bobbie's fourth birthday when Phyllis was a baby. Bobbie
remembered learning the verses to say to Father
She
wondered if Mother had remembered, too. The four-year-old verse had
been:--

     Daddy dear, I'm only four
     And I'd rather not be more.
     Four's the nicest age to be,
     Two and two and one and three.
     What I love is two and two,
     Mother, Peter, Phil, and you.
     What you love is one and three,
     Mother, Peter, Phil, and me.
     Give your little girl a kiss
     Because she learned and told you this.

The song the others were singing now went like this:--

     Our darling Roberta,
     No sorrow shall hurt her
     If we can prevent it
        Her whole life long.
     Her birthday's our fete day,
     We'll make it our great day,
     And give her our presents
        And sing her our song.
     May pleasures attend her
     And may the Fates send her
     The happiest journey
        Along her life's way.
     With skies bright above her
     And dear ones to love her!
     Dear Bob!  Many happy
        Returns of the day!

When they had finished singing they cried
and gave them very loudly. Bobbie felt exactly as though she
were going to cry -- you know that odd feeling in the bridge of your nose
and the pricking in your eyelids? But before she had time to begin they
were all kissing and hugging her
said Mother
They were very nice presents. There was a green and red needle-book that
Phyllis had made herself in secret moments. There was a darling little
silver brooch of Mother's shaped like a buttercup, which Bobbie had
known and loved for years, but which she had never, never thought would
come to be her very own. There was also a pair of blue glass vases from
Mrs. Viney. Roberta had seen and admired them in the village shop. And
there were three birthday cards with pretty pictures and wishes.

Mother fitted the forget-me-not crown on Bobbie's brown head
she said.

There was a cake on the table covered with white sugar, with 'Dear
Bobbie' on it in pink sweets, and there were buns and jam; but
the nicest thing was that the big table was almost covered with
flowers -- wallflowers were laid all round the tea-tray -- there was a ring
of forget-me-nots round each plate. The cake had a wreath of white lilac
round it, and in the middle was something that looked like a pattern all
done with single blooms of lilac or wallflower or laburnum
cried Peter
said
Phyllis
said Peter, suddenly dumping down his adored
steam-engine on the table in front of her. Its tender had been lined
with fresh white paper, and was full of sweets
cried Bobbie, quite overcome by this munificence
said Peter, very promptly
Bobbie couldn't help her face changing a little -- not so much because she
was disappointed at not getting the engine, as because she had thought
it so very noble of Peter, and now she felt she had been silly to think
it. Also she felt she must have seemed greedy to expect the engine as
well as the sweets. So her face changed. Peter saw it. He hesitated a
minute; then his face changed, too, and he said
cried Bobbie
She said no
more aloud, but to herself she said
she added, and tea began.

It was a delightful birthday. After tea Mother played games with
them -- any game they liked -- and of course their first choice was
blindman's-buff, in the course of which Bobbie's forget-me-not wreath
twisted itself crookedly over one of her ears and stayed there. Then,
when it was near bed-time and time to calm down, Mother had a lovely new
story to read to them
Bobbie asked as they
said good night.

And Mother said no, she wouldn't -- she would only just write to Father
and then go to bed.

But when Bobbie crept down later to bring up her presents -- for she felt
she really could not be separated from them all night -- Mother was not
writing, but leaning her head on her arms and her arms on the table. I
think it was rather good of Bobbie to slip quietly away, saying over and
over
But it made a sad end to the birthday.

          *          *          *          *          *          *

The very next morning Bobbie began to watch her opportunity to get
Peter's engine mended secretly. And the opportunity came the very next
afternoon.

Mother went by train to the nearest town to do shopping. When she went
there, she always went to the Post-office. Perhaps to post her letters
to Father, for she never gave them to the children or Mrs. Viney to
post, and she never went to the village herself. Peter and Phyllis went
with her. Bobbie wanted an excuse not to go, but try as she would she
couldn't think of a good one. And just when she felt that all was lost,
her frock caught on a big nail by the kitchen door and there was a great
criss-cross tear all along the front of the skirt. I assure you this was
really an accident. So the others pitied her and went without her,
for there was no time for her to change, because they were rather late
already and had to hurry to the station to catch the train.

When they had gone, Bobbie put on her everyday frock, and went down to
the railway. She did not go into the station, but she went along the
line to the end of the platform where the engine is when the down train
is alongside the platform -- the place where there are a water tank and
a long, limp, leather hose, like an elephant's trunk. She hid behind a
bush on the other side of the railway. She had the toy engine done up in
brown paper, and she waited patiently with it under her arm.

Then when the next train came in and stopped, Bobbie went across the
metals of the up-line and stood beside the engine. She had never been so
close to an engine before. It looked much larger and harder than she
had expected, and it made her feel very small indeed, and, somehow, very
soft -- as if she could very, very easily be hurt rather badly
said Bobbie to herself.

The engine-driver and fireman did not see her. They were leaning out
on the other side, telling the Porter a tale about a dog and a leg of
mutton
said Roberta -- but the engine was blowing off steam and
no one heard her
she spoke a little louder, but the Engine
happened to speak at the same moment, and of course Roberta's soft
little voice hadn't a chance.

It seemed to her that the only way would be to climb on to the engine
and pull at their coats. The step was high, but she got her knee on it,
and clambered into the cab; she stumbled and fell on hands and knees on
the base of the great heap of coals that led up to the square opening in
the tender. The engine was not above the weaknesses of its fellows; it
was making a great deal more noise than there was the slightest need
for. And just as Roberta fell on the coals, the engine-driver, who
had turned without seeing her, started the engine, and when Bobbie had
picked herself up, the train was moving -- not fast, but much too fast for
her to get off.

All sorts of dreadful thoughts came to her all together in one horrible
flash. There were such things as express trains that went on, she
supposed, for hundreds of miles without stopping. Suppose this should be
one of them? How would she get home again? She had no money to pay for
the return journey
she thought
And
the train was going faster and faster.

There was something in her throat that made it impossible for her to
speak. She tried twice. The men had their backs to her. They were doing
something to things that looked like taps.

Suddenly she put out her hand and caught hold of the nearest sleeve. The
man turned with a start, and he and Roberta stood for a minute looking
at each other in silence. Then the silence was broken by them both.

The man said
and Roberta burst into tears.

The other man said he was blooming well blest -- or something like it -- but
though naturally surprised they were not exactly unkind
said the fireman,
and the engine-driver said
but they made her sit down on an iron
seat in the cab and told her to stop crying and tell them what she meant
by it.

She did stop, as soon as she could. One thing that helped her was the
thought that Peter would give almost his ears to be in her place -- on a
real engine -- really going. The children had often wondered whether any
engine-driver could be found noble enough to take them for a ride on an
engine -- and now there she was. She dried her eyes and sniffed earnestly
said the fireman
sniffed Bobbie
said the engine-driver, encouragingly.

Bobbie tried again
she said
She sniffed again
said the fireman
agreed the engine-driver
Bobbie found that she had not quite stopped crying. The engine-driver
patted her on the back and said
said Bobbie, much cheered to find herself addressed as
She picked up the brown-paper parcel from among the coals and undid the
string with hot, red fingers that trembled.

Her feet and legs felt the scorch of the engine fire, but her shoulders
felt the wild chill rush of the air. The engine lurched and shook and
rattled, and as they shot under a bridge the engine seemed to shout in
her ears.

The fireman shovelled on coals.

Bobbie unrolled the brown paper and disclosed the toy engine
she said wistfully
The engine-driver said he was blowed if he wasn't blest
remarked the fireman.

But the engine-driver took the little engine and looked at it -- and the
fireman ceased for an instant to shovel coal, and looked, too
said the engine-driver
said Bobbie
she added, for she had seen a not
unkindly wink pass between the two
said Bill
said Bobbie, firmly, though
her heart beat fiercely against her arm as she clasped her hands
said Bill, relenting suddenly
and completely
Bobbie explained eagerly
She pointed to a little brass wheel that he had turned as he spoke
said Bobbie, mentally registering the fact to tell the others
Bill went on, flattered by her
enthusiasm
He showed her two little dials, like clock faces, and told her how one
showed how much steam was going, and the other showed if the brake was
working properly.

By the time she had seen him shut off steam with a big shining steel
handle, Bobbie knew more about the inside working of an engine than she
had ever thought there was to know, and Jim had promised that his second
cousin's wife's brother should solder the toy engine, or Jim would know
the reason why. Besides all the knowledge she had gained Bobbie felt
that she and Bill and Jim were now friends for life, and that they had
wholly and forever forgiven her for stumbling uninvited among the sacred
coals of their tender.

At Stacklepoole Junction she parted from them with warm expressions of
mutual regard. They handed her over to the guard of a returning train -- a
friend of theirs -- and she had the joy of knowing what guards do in their
secret fastnesses, and understood how, when you pull the communication
cord in railway carriages, a wheel goes round under the guard's nose and
a loud bell rings in his ears. She asked the guard why his van smelt
so fishy, and learned that he had to carry a lot of fish every day, and
that the wetness in the hollows of the corrugated floor had all drained
out of boxes full of plaice and cod and mackerel and soles and smelts.

Bobbie got home in time for tea, and she felt as though her mind would
burst with all that had been put into it since she parted from the
others. How she blessed the nail that had torn her frock
asked the others
said Roberta. But she would not tell a word
of her adventures till the day appointed, when she mysteriously led them
to the station at the hour of the 3.19's transit, and proudly introduced
them to her friends, Bill and Jim. Jim's second cousin's wife's brother
had not been unworthy of the sacred trust reposed in him. The toy engine
was, literally, as good as new
said Bobbie, just before the engine screamed
ITS good-bye
And as the three children went home up the hill, Peter hugging the
engine, now quite its own self again, Bobbie told, with joyous leaps of
the heart, the story of how she had been an Engine-burglar
It was one day when Mother had gone to Maidbridge. She had gone alone,
but the children were to go to the station to meet her. And, loving the
station as they did, it was only natural that they should be there a
good hour before there was any chance of Mother's train arriving, even
if the train were punctual, which was most unlikely. No doubt they would
have been just as early, even if it had been a fine day, and all the
delights of woods and fields and rocks and rivers had been open to them.
But it happened to be a very wet day and, for July, very cold. There was
a wild wind that drove flocks of dark purple clouds across the sky
as Phyllis said. And the rain stung sharply,
so that the way to the station was finished at a run. Then the rain fell
faster and harder, and beat slantwise against the windows of the booking
office and of the chill place that had General Waiting Room on its door
Phyllis said
said Peter.

They decided to wait on the up side, for the down platform looked very
wet indeed, and the rain was driving right into the little bleak shelter
where down-passengers have to wait for their trains.

The hour would be full of incident and of interest, for there would be
two up trains and one down to look at before the one that should bring
Mother back
said Bobbie
They went into the desert spot labelled General Waiting Room, and the
time passed pleasantly enough in a game of advertisements. You know the
game, of course? It is something like dumb Crambo. The players take
it in turns to go out, and then come back and look as like some
advertisement as they can, and the others have to guess what
advertisement it is meant to be. Bobbie came in and sat down under
Mother's umbrella and made a sharp face, and everyone knew she was the
fox who sits under the umbrella in the advertisement. Phyllis tried to
make a Magic Carpet of Mother's waterproof, but it would not stand out
stiff and raft-like as a Magic Carpet should, and nobody could guess
it. Everyone thought Peter was carrying things a little too far when he
blacked his face all over with coal-dust and struck a spidery attitude
and said he was the blot that advertises somebody's Blue Black Writing
Fluid.

It was Phyllis's turn again, and she was trying to look like the Sphinx
that advertises What's-his-name's Personally Conducted Tours up the Nile
when the sharp ting of the signal announced the up train. The children
rushed out to see it pass. On its engine were the particular driver
and fireman who were now numbered among the children's dearest friends.
Courtesies passed between them. Jim asked after the toy engine, and
Bobbie pressed on his acceptance a moist, greasy package of toffee that
she had made herself.

Charmed by this attention, the engine-driver consented to consider her
request that some day he would take Peter for a ride on the engine
cried the engine-driver, suddenly
And sure enough, off the train went. The children watched the
tail-lights of the train till it disappeared round the curve of the
line, and then turned to go back to the dusty freedom of the General
Waiting Room and the joys of the advertisement game.

They expected to see just one or two people, the end of the procession
of passengers who had given up their tickets and gone away. Instead, the
platform round the door of the station had a dark blot round it, and the
dark blot was a crowd of people
cried Peter, with a thrill of joyous excitement
They ran down the platform. When they got to the crowd, they could, of
course, see nothing but the damp backs and elbows of the people on the
crowd's outside. Everybody was talking at once. It was evident that
something had happened
said a
farmerish-looking person. Peter saw his red, clean-shaven face as he
spoke
said a young
man with a black bag
Then the voice of the Station Master was heard, firm and official
But the crowd did not move. And then came a voice that thrilled the
children through and through. For it spoke in a foreign language. And,
what is more, it was a language that they had never heard. They had
heard French spoken and German. Aunt Emma knew German, and used to sing
a song about bedeuten and zeiten and bin and sin. Nor was it Latin.
Peter had been in Latin for four terms.

It was some comfort, anyhow, to find that none of the crowd understood
the foreign language any better than the children did
asked the farmer, heavily
said the Station Master, who had once been
to Boulogne for the day
cried Peter
asked more than one voice. The crowd fell back a
little to see who had spoken, and Peter pressed forward, so that when
the crowd closed up again he was in the front rank
said Peter
Then he saw what it was that the crowd had for its centre. It
was a man -- the man, Peter did not doubt, who had spoken in that strange
tongue. A man with long hair and wild eyes, with shabby clothes of a cut
Peter had not seen before -- a man whose hands and lips trembled, and who
spoke again as his eyes fell on Peter
said Peter
said the farmer-man
began Peter, boldly, and the next moment the
crowd recoiled again, for the man with the wild eyes had left leaning
against the wall, and had sprung forward and caught Peter's hands,
and begun to pour forth a flood of words which, though he could not
understand a word of them, Peter knew the sound of
said he, and turned, his hands still clasped in the hands of
the strange shabby figure, to throw a glance of triumph at the crowd
Peter was obliged to own it
said the Station Master again
A few of the more timid or less inquisitive travellers moved slowly and
reluctantly away. And Phyllis and Bobbie got near to Peter. All three
had been TAUGHT French at school. How deeply they now wished that they
had LEARNED it! Peter shook his head at the stranger, but he also shook
his hands as warmly and looked at him as kindly as he could. A person
in the crowd, after some hesitation, said suddenly
and
then, blushing deeply, backed out of the press and went away
whispered Bobbie to the Station Master
The Station Master took the arm of the stranger, suddenly but not
unkindly. But the man wrenched his arm away, and cowered back coughing
and trembling and trying to push the Station Master away
said Bobbie
said the farmer
Bobbie went on
Sometimes, in moments of great need, we can do wonderful things -- things
that in ordinary life we could hardly even dream of doing. Bobbie had
never been anywhere near the top of her French class, but she must have
learned something without knowing it, for now, looking at those wild,
hunted eyes, she actually remembered and, what is more, spoke, some
French words. She said
Nobody knew.

"Bong is 'good,'" said Phyllis
I do not know whether the man understood her words, but he understood
the touch of the hand she thrust into his, and the kindness of the other
hand that stroked his shabby sleeve.

She pulled him gently towards the inmost sanctuary of the Station
Master. The other children followed, and the Station Master shut the
door in the face of the crowd, which stood a little while in the booking
office talking and looking at the fast closed yellow door, and then by
ones and twos went its way, grumbling.

Inside the Station Master's room Bobbie still held the stranger's hand
and stroked his sleeve
said the Station Master
all the children pleaded at once. And suddenly Bobbie
got between the others and the stranger, for she had seen that he was
crying.

By a most unusual piece of good fortune she had a handkerchief in
her pocket. By a still more uncommon accident the handkerchief was
moderately clean. Standing in front of the stranger, she got out the
handkerchief and passed it to him so that the others did not see
Phyllis was saying
said
Peter
said the Station Master
Then Peter had an idea. He pulled an envelope out of his pocket, and
showed that it was half full of foreign stamps
he said
Bobbie looked and saw that the stranger had dried his eyes with her
handkerchief. So she said
They showed him an Italian stamp, and pointed from him to it and back
again, and made signs of question with their eyebrows. He shook his
head. Then they showed him a Norwegian stamp -- the common blue kind it
was -- and again he signed No. Then they showed him a Spanish one, and
at that he took the envelope from Peter's hand and searched among the
stamps with a hand that trembled. The hand that he reached out at last,
with a gesture as of one answering a question, contained a RUSSIAN
stamp
cried Peter
The train from Maidbridge was signalled
said Bobbie
said Bobbie, looking at the stranger, as she might have looked
at a strange dog of doubtful temper
She smiled at him, and he smiled back, a queer crooked smile. And then
he coughed again. And the heavy rattling swish of the incoming train
swept past, and the Station Master and Peter and Phyllis went out to
meet it. Bobbie was still holding the stranger's hand when they came
back with Mother.

The Russian rose and bowed very ceremoniously.

Then Mother spoke in French, and he replied, haltingly at first, but
presently in longer and longer sentences.

The children, watching his face and Mother's, knew that he was telling
her things that made her angry and pitying, and sorry and indignant all
at once
The Station Master could not restrain
his curiosity any longer
said Mother
said the
Station Master, doubtfully
Mother said brightly, and she smiled
She spoke again in French to the Russian, and everyone could see the
surprise and pleasure and gratitude in his eyes. He got up and politely
bowed to the Station Master, and offered his arm most ceremoniously to
Mother. She took it, but anybody could have seen that she was helping
him along, and not he her
Mother said
But it was Bobbie who went for the Doctor
she said breathlessly when she came upon him
in his shirt sleeves, weeding his pansy-bed
asked the Doctor, reaching for his coat
said Bobbie, unexpectedly
The Doctor smiled
said Bobbie
Dr. Forrest wished then that he hadn't smiled.

When Bobbie and the Doctor got to Three Chimneys, the Russian was
sitting in the arm-chair that had been Father's, stretching his feet
to the blaze of a bright wood fire, and sipping the tea Mother had made
him
was what the Doctor said
said
Mother. She did, and presently the Doctor helped the stranger to bed.

There was a big black trunk in Mother's room that none of the children
had ever seen unlocked. Now, when she had lighted the fire, she unlocked
it and took some clothes out -- men's clothes -- and set them to air by the
newly lighted fire. Bobbie, coming in with more wood for the fire, saw
the mark on the night-shirt, and looked over to the open trunk. All
the things she could see were men's clothes. And the name marked on the
shirt was Father's name. Then Father hadn't taken his clothes with him.
And that night-shirt was one of Father's new ones. Bobbie remembered its
being made, just before Peter's birthday. Why hadn't Father taken his
clothes? Bobbie slipped from the room. As she went she heard the key
turned in the lock of the trunk. Her heart was beating horribly. WHY
hadn't Father taken his clothes? When Mother came out of the room,
Bobbie flung tightly clasping arms round her waist, and whispered
said Bobbie, angry with herself, but still clinging
to that resolution of hers, not to see anything that Mother didn't mean
her to see.

Mother gave her a hurried hug
she said
Later on, when the Russian stranger had been made comfortable for the
night, Mother came into the girls' room. She was to sleep there in
Phyllis's bed, and Phyllis was to have a mattress on the floor, a
most amusing adventure for Phyllis. Directly Mother came in, two white
figures started up, and two eager voices called
A white shape hopped into the room. It was Peter, dragging his quilt
behind him like the tail of a white peacock
he said
said Mother
Bobbie knew by her voice that Mother had been crying, but the others
didn't know
said Phil, and Bobbie got her arms
round Mother's waist and snuggled close to her
said Peter
said Mother
Mother's voice trembled a little and stopped suddenly
said Peter
said Mother
said Peter
cried Bobbie
said practical Peter
Even Phyllis now perceived that mother's voice was very unsteady
she said
Mother didn't answer for a minute. Then she just said
and then
she seemed to be thinking. The children were quiet.

Presently she said
Bobbie repeated slowly
said Mother
The Russian gentleman was better the next day, and the day after that
better still, and on the third day he was well enough to come into the
garden. A basket chair was put for him and he sat there, dressed in
clothes of Father's which were too big for him. But when Mother had
hemmed up the ends of the sleeves and the trousers, the clothes did
well enough. His was a kind face now that it was no longer tired and
frightened, and he smiled at the children whenever he saw them. They
wished very much that he could speak English. Mother wrote several
letters to people she thought might know whereabouts in England a
Russian gentleman's wife and family might possibly be; not to the people
she used to know before she came to live at Three Chimneys -- she never
wrote to any of them -- but strange people -- Members of Parliament and
Editors of papers, and Secretaries of Societies.

And she did not do much of her story-writing, only corrected proofs as
she sat in the sun near the Russian, and talked to him every now and
then.

The children wanted very much to show how kindly they felt to this man
who had been sent to prison and to Siberia just for writing a beautiful
book about poor people. They could smile at him, of course; they could
and they did. But if you smile too constantly, the smile is apt to
get fixed like the smile of the hyaena. And then it no longer looks
friendly, but simply silly. So they tried other ways, and brought him
flowers till the place where he sat was surrounded by little fading
bunches of clover and roses and Canterbury bells.

And then Phyllis had an idea. She beckoned mysteriously to the others
and drew them into the back yard, and there, in a concealed spot,
between the pump and the water-butt, she said
Perks, you will recollect, was the Porter
Mother had been down as she had promised to tell the Station Master the
story of the Russian Prisoner. But even the charms of the railway had
been unable to tear the children away from the neighbourhood of the
interesting stranger. So they had not been to the station for three
days.

They went now.

And, to their surprise and distress, were very coldly received by Perks
he said when they peeped in at the door of
the Porters' room. And he went on reading his newspaper.

There was an uncomfortable silence
said Bobbie, with a sigh
said Perks loftily
said Peter, too anxious and alarmed to
change the form of words
said
Perks
The secret-chamber of each heart was rapidly examined during the pause
that followed. Three heads were shaken
said Bobbie at last
said Perks
He held up the paper
between him and them and went on reading
said Phyllis, in despair
No answer. The paper was refolded and Perks began on another column
said Peter, suddenly
said Perks, indignantly
Phyllis
flushed purple as she thought of the strawberries
said Perks
The three spoke all at once.

Perks said it was all very well, and still held up the paper. Then
Phyllis suddenly snatched it away, and threw her arms round his neck
she said
said the others.

And Perks at last consented to accept their apologies.

Then they got him to come out and sit in the sun on the green Railway
Bank, where the grass was quite hot to touch, and there, sometimes
speaking one at a time, and sometimes all together, they told the Porter
the story of the Russian Prisoner
said Perks; but he did not say it -- whatever it was
said Peter
said the Porter
said the Porter
said Bobbie
said Perks, cautiously
Peter asked
A signal sounded
said Perks
said Phyllis
Perks narrowed his eyes and then raised his eyebrows
said
he.

This was an awkward moment for Phyllis. To say "yes" would seem rude and
greedy, and unkind to Perks. But she knew if she said
she would
not be pleased with herself afterwards. So
she said
said the Porter
Phyllis added hastily
said Perks, and sprang across the line six feet
in front of the advancing train.

The girls hated to see him do this, but Peter liked it. It was so
exciting.

The Russian gentleman was so delighted with the strawberries that the
three racked their brains to find some other surprise for him. But all
the racking did not bring out any idea more novel than wild cherries.
And this idea occurred to them next morning. They had seen the blossom
on the trees in the spring, and they knew where to look for wild
cherries now that cherry time was here. The trees grew all up and along
the rocky face of the cliff out of which the mouth of the tunnel opened.
There were all sorts of trees there, birches and beeches and baby oaks
and hazels, and among them the cherry blossom had shone like snow and
silver.

The mouth of the tunnel was some way from Three Chimneys, so Mother let
them take their lunch with them in a basket. And the basket would do
to bring the cherries back in if they found any. She also lent them her
silver watch so that they should not be late for tea. Peter's Waterbury
had taken it into its head not to go since the day when Peter dropped it
into the water-butt. And they started. When they got to the top of the
cutting, they leaned over the fence and looked down to where the railway
lines lay at the bottom of what, as Phyllis said, was exactly like a
mountain gorge
The sides of the cutting were of grey stone, very roughly hewn. Indeed,
the top part of the cutting had been a little natural glen that had been
cut deeper to bring it down to the level of the tunnel's mouth. Among
the rocks, grass and flowers grew, and seeds dropped by birds in the
crannies of the stone had taken root and grown into bushes and trees
that overhung the cutting. Near the tunnel was a flight of steps leading
down to the line -- just wooden bars roughly fixed into the earth -- a very
steep and narrow way, more like a ladder than a stair
said Peter
So they went along the fence towards the little swing gate that is at
the top of these steps. And they were almost at the gate when Bobbie
said
That" was a very odd noise indeed -- a soft noise, but quite plainly to
be heard through the sound of the wind in tree branches, and the hum
and whir of the telegraph wires. It was a sort of rustling, whispering
sound. As they listened it stopped, and then it began again.

And this time it did not stop, but it grew louder and more rustling and
rumbling
cried Peter, suddenly
The tree he pointed at was one of those that have rough grey leaves and
white flowers. The berries, when they come, are bright scarlet, but if
you pick them, they disappoint you by turning black before you get them
home. And, as Peter pointed, the tree was moving -- not just the way trees
ought to move when the wind blows through them, but all in one piece,
as though it were a live creature and were walking down the side of the
cutting
cried Bobbie
said Phyllis, breathlessly
It really did seem a little like magic. For all the trees for about
twenty yards of the opposite bank seemed to be slowly walking down
towards the railway line, the tree with the grey leaves bringing up the
rear like some old shepherd driving a flock of green sheep
said Phyllis
But Bobbie and Peter clung fast to the rail and watched breathlessly.
And Phyllis made no movement towards going home by herself.

The trees moved on and on. Some stones and loose earth fell down and
rattled on the railway metals far below
Peter tried to say, but he found there was
hardly any voice to say it with. And, indeed, just as he spoke, the
great rock, on the top of which the walking trees were, leaned slowly
forward. The trees, ceasing to walk, stood still and shivered. Leaning
with the rock, they seemed to hesitate a moment, and then rock and trees
and grass and bushes, with a rushing sound, slipped right away from the
face of the cutting and fell on the line with a blundering crash that
could have been heard half a mile off. A cloud of dust rose up
said Peter, in awestruck tones
said Bobbie
said Peter, slowly. He was still leaning on the fence
he
said again, still more slowly.

Then he stood upright
said Bobbie, and began.

But Peter cried
and looked at Mother's watch. He was very
prompt and businesslike, and his face looked whiter than they had ever
seen it
he said
suggested Phyllis, breathlessly
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
Peter repeated
They got down the steep stairs. Bobbie was pale and shivering. Peter's
face looked thinner than usual. Phyllis was red-faced and damp with
anxiety
she said
she stopped short, and then ended in quite
a different tone
Bobbie turned at the bottom of the stairs
she cried
They did, and with the petticoats rolled up under their arms, ran along
the railway, skirting the newly fallen mound of stones and rock and
earth, and bent, crushed, twisted trees. They ran at their best pace.
Peter led, but the girls were not far behind. They reached the corner
that hid the mound from the straight line of railway that ran half a
mile without curve or corner
said Peter, taking hold of the largest flannel petticoat
Phyllis faltered
said Peter, with brief sternness
said Bobbie
She took the red flannel petticoat from him and tore it off an inch from
the band. Then she tore the other in the same way
said Peter, tearing in his turn. He divided each petticoat into
three pieces
He looked at the watch again
The knives given to boys are, for some odd reason, seldom of the kind
of steel that keeps sharp. The young saplings had to be broken off. Two
came up by the roots. The leaves were stripped from them
said Peter. And the holes were cut. The knife was sharp enough to cut
flannel with. Two of the flags were set up in heaps of loose stones
between the sleepers of the down line. Then Phyllis and Roberta took
each a flag, and stood ready to wave it as soon as the train came in
sight
said Peter
Phyllis was beginning, but Bobbie
interrupted
Perhaps Peter had not rightly calculated the number of minutes it would
take the 11.29 to get from the station to the place where they were, or
perhaps the train was late. Anyway, it seemed a very long time that they
waited.

Phyllis grew impatient
said she.

Peter relaxed the heroic attitude he had chosen to show off his two
flags. And Bobbie began to feel sick with suspense.

It seemed to her that they had been standing there for hours and hours,
holding those silly little red flannel flags that no one would ever
notice. The train wouldn't care. It would go rushing by them and tear
round the corner and go crashing into that awful mound. And everyone
would be killed. Her hands grew very cold and trembled so that she could
hardly hold the flag. And then came the distant rumble and hum of the
metals, and a puff of white steam showed far away along the stretch of
line
said Peter
The train came rattling along very, very fast
cried Bobbie.

The two little flags on the line swayed as the nearing train shook and
loosened the heaps of loose stones that held them up. One of them slowly
leaned over and fell on the line. Bobbie jumped forward and caught it
up, and waved it; her hands did not tremble now.

It seemed that the train came on as fast as ever. It was very near now
said Peter, fiercely
Bobbie said again
cried Peter, suddenly, and he dragged Phyllis back by the
arm.

But Bobbie cried
and waved her two flags right over
the line. The front of the engine looked black and enormous. Its voice
was loud and harsh
cried Bobbie. No one heard her. At least Peter
and Phyllis didn't, for the oncoming rush of the train covered the sound
of her voice with a mountain of sound. But afterwards she used to wonder
whether the engine itself had not heard her. It seemed almost as though
it had -- for it slackened swiftly, slackened and stopped, not twenty
yards from the place where Bobbie's two flags waved over the line. She
saw the great black engine stop dead, but somehow she could not stop
waving the flags. And when the driver and the fireman had got off the
engine and Peter and Phyllis had gone to meet them and pour out their
excited tale of the awful mound just round the corner, Bobbie still
waved the flags but more and more feebly and jerkily.

When the others turned towards her she was lying across the line with
her hands flung forward and still gripping the sticks of the little red
flannel flags.

The engine-driver picked her up, carried her to the train, and laid her
on the cushions of a first-class carriage
he said
It was horrible to see Bobbie lying so white and quiet, with her lips
blue, and parted
whispered
Phyllis
said Peter, sharply.

They sat by Bobbie on the blue cushions, and the train ran back. Before
it reached their station Bobbie had sighed and opened her eyes,
and rolled herself over and begun to cry. This cheered the others
wonderfully. They had seen her cry before, but they had never seen her
faint, nor anyone else, for the matter of that. They had not known what
to do when she was fainting, but now she was only crying they could
thump her on the back and tell her not to, just as they always did. And
presently, when she stopped crying, they were able to laugh at her for
being such a coward as to faint.

When the station was reached, the three were the heroes of an agitated
meeting on the platform.

The praises they got for their
their
their
were enough to have turned anybody's head. Phyllis
enjoyed herself thoroughly. She had never been a real heroine before,
and the feeling was delicious. Peter's ears got very red. Yet he, too,
enjoyed himself. Only Bobbie wished they all wouldn't. She wanted to get
away
said the Station
Master.

Bobbie wished she might never hear of it again. She pulled at Peter's
jacket
she said.

So they went. And as they went Station Master and Porter and guards and
driver and fireman and passengers sent up a cheer
cried Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis.

Bobbie said nothing. She was thinking of the horrible mound, and the
trustful train rushing towards it
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Bobbie.

The others thought her rather heartless
I hope you don't mind my telling you a good deal about Roberta. The fact
is I am growing very fond of her. The more I observe her the more I love
her. And I notice all sorts of things about her that I like.

For instance, she was quite oddly anxious to make other people happy.
And she could keep a secret, a tolerably rare accomplishment. Also she
had the power of silent sympathy. That sounds rather dull, I know, but
it's not so dull as it sounds. It just means that a person is able
to know that you are unhappy, and to love you extra on that account,
without bothering you by telling you all the time how sorry she is
for you. That was what Bobbie was like. She knew that Mother was
unhappy -- and that Mother had not told her the reason. So she just loved
Mother more and never said a single word that could let Mother know how
earnestly her little girl wondered what Mother was unhappy about. This
needs practice. It is not so easy as you might think.

Whatever happened -- and all sorts of nice, pleasant ordinary things
happened -- such as picnics, games, and buns for tea, Bobbie always had
these thoughts at the back of her mind
and so on, repeating and
repeating like a tune that you don't know the stopping part of.

The Russian gentleman still took up a good deal of everybody's thoughts.
All the editors and secretaries of Societies and Members of Parliament
had answered Mother's letters as politely as they knew how; but none of
them could tell where the wife and children of Mr. Szezcpansky would be
likely to be. (Did I tell you that the Russian's very Russian name was
that?)

Bobbie had another quality which you will hear differently described
by different people. Some of them call it interfering in other people's
business -- and some call it
and some
call it
It just means trying to help people.

She racked her brains to think of some way of helping the Russian
gentleman to find his wife and children. He had learned a few words
of English now. He could say
and
and
and
and
when the children brought him
flowers, and
when they asked him how he had slept.

The way he smiled when he
was, Bobbie felt
She used to think of his face because she
fancied it would help her to some way of helping him. But it did not.
Yet his being there cheered her because she saw that it made Mother
happier
said Bobbie
For many and many a night after the day when she and Peter and Phyllis
had saved the train from wreck by waving their little red flannel flags,
Bobbie used to wake screaming and shivering, seeing again that horrible
mound, and the poor, dear trustful engine rushing on towards it -- just
thinking that it was doing its swift duty, and that everything was clear
and safe. And then a warm thrill of pleasure used to run through her
at the remembrance of how she and Peter and Phyllis and the red flannel
petticoats had really saved everybody.

One morning a letter came. It was addressed to Peter and Bobbie and
Phyllis. They opened it with enthusiastic curiosity, for they did not
often get letters.

The letter said:--

"Dear Sir, and Ladies,-- It is proposed to make a small presentation to
you, in commemoration of your prompt and courageous action in warning
the train on the --- inst., and thus averting what must, humanly
speaking, have been a terrible accident. The presentation will take
place at the --- Station at three o'clock on the 30th inst., if this
time and place will be convenient to you.

          "Yours faithfully,

                    "Jabez Inglewood
There never had been a prouder moment in the lives of the three
children. They rushed to Mother with the letter, and she also felt proud
and said so, and this made the children happier than ever
said Mother
she added
said Bobbie
Washing is rather fun. I wonder whether you've ever done it? This
particular washing took place in the back kitchen, which had a stone
floor and a very big stone sink under its window
said Phyllis
said Peter, his hands in his
pockets
said Phyllis
said Peter, but he lent
his
said Phyllis, hopping joyously
about as Bobbie carefully carried the heavy kettle from the kitchen
fire
said Bobbie, greatly shocked
The lilac and the Gloire de Dijon roses outside the window swayed in the
soft breeze
said Bobbie, feeling very
grown up
said Phyllis, shaking and squeezing the muslin in quite
a professional manner
said Peter, as his sisters,
having duly washed the pegs and wiped the line, hung up the dresses to
dry
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
suggested
Peter
said Bobbie, doubtfully, drying her hands on the rough
towel that hung on a roller at the back of the scullery door
said Peter, downrightly
said Bobbie, doubtfully
said her brother
warned Phyllis
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
It took some time to arrange what should be said. Mother had gone back
to her writing, and several sheets of pink paper with scalloped gilt
edges and green four-leaved shamrocks in the corner were spoiled before
the three had decided what to say. Then each made a copy and signed it
with its own name.

The threefold letter ran
Then came the name, and after it
said Bobbie, taking the clean dry
dresses off the line
When at last -- it seemed a very long time after -- it was THE day,
the three children went down to the station at the proper time. And
everything that happened was so odd that it seemed like a dream. The
Station Master came out to meet them -- in his best clothes, as Peter
noticed at once -- and led them into the waiting room where once they had
played the advertisement game. It looked quite different now. A carpet
had been put down -- and there were pots of roses on the mantelpiece and
on the window ledges -- green branches stuck up, like holly and laurel
are at Christmas, over the framed advertisement of Cook's Tours and the
Beauties of Devon and the Paris Lyons Railway. There were quite a
number of people there besides the Porter -- two or three ladies in
smart dresses, and quite a crowd of gentlemen in high hats and frock
coats -- besides everybody who belonged to the station. They recognized
several people who had been in the train on the red-flannel-petticoat
day. Best of all their own old gentleman was there, and his coat and hat
and collar seemed more than ever different from anyone else's. He shook
hands with them and then everybody sat down on chairs, and a gentleman
in spectacles -- they found out afterwards that he was the District
Superintendent -- began quite a long speech -- very clever indeed. I am not
going to write the speech down. First, because you would think it dull;
and secondly, because it made all the children blush so, and get so hot
about the ears that I am quite anxious to get away from this part of the
subject; and thirdly, because the gentleman took so many words to say
what he had to say that I really haven't time to write them down. He
said all sorts of nice things about the children's bravery and presence
of mind, and when he had done he sat down, and everyone who was there
clapped and said
And then the old gentleman got up and said things, too. It was very like
a prize-giving. And then he called the children one by one, by their
names, and gave each of them a beautiful gold watch and chain. And
inside the watches were engraved after the name of the watch's new
owner
The watches were the most beautiful you can possibly imagine, and each
one had a blue leather case to live in when it was at home
whispered the Station Master in Peter's ear and pushed him forward.
"Begin 'Ladies and Gentlemen,'" he added.

Each of the children had already said
quite properly
said Peter, but he did not resist the push
he said in a rather husky voice. Then there
was a pause, and he heard his heart beating in his throat
he went on with a rush
The people clapped Peter more than they had done the District
Superintendent, and then everybody shook hands with them, and as soon as
politeness would let them, they got away, and tore up the hill to Three
Chimneys with their watches in their hands.

It was a wonderful day -- the kind of day that very seldom happens to
anybody and to most of us not at all
said
Bobbie
asked Phyllis
said Bobbie.

So when she had thought a little more she wrote a letter
it said
She got the Station Master to give the letter to the old gentleman, and
next day she asked Peter and Phyllis to come down to the station with
her at the time when the train that brought the old gentleman from town
would be passing through.

She explained her idea to them -- and they approved thoroughly.

They had all washed their hands and faces, and brushed their hair, and
were looking as tidy as they knew how. But Phyllis, always unlucky, had
upset a jug of lemonade down the front of her dress. There was no time
to change -- and the wind happening to blow from the coal yard, her frock
was soon powdered with grey, which stuck to the sticky lemonade stains
and made her look, as Peter said
It was decided that she should keep behind the others as much as
possible
said Bobbie
There was no sign of weakness, however, in the eyes, or in any other
part of the old gentleman, as he stepped from the train and looked up
and down the platform.

The three children, now that it came to the point, suddenly felt that
rush of deep shyness which makes your ears red and hot, your hands warm
and wet, and the tip of your nose pink and shiny
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Roberta
said Peter, gloomily. And they went forward to
meet the old gentleman
he said, shaking hands with them all in turn
Bobbie said, perspiring and polite.

He took her arm and drew her into the waiting room where she and the
others had played the advertisement game the day they found the Russian.
Phyllis and Peter followed
said the old gentleman, giving
Bobbie's arm a kind little shake before he let it go
said Bobbie
said the old gentleman
said Bobbie
said the old gentleman
said she
he said
she said
said he
said Bobbie -- and out came the story of the Russian who
had written the beautiful book about poor people, and had been sent to
prison and to Siberia for just that
said Bobbie
And the others said so, too, though not with so much enthusiasm
said the old gentleman, pulling down the white waistcoat that
had the big gilt buttons on it
said Bobbie earnestly
she asked.

The old gentleman got out a gold pencil-case and a beautiful,
sweet-smelling, green Russian leather note-book and opened it at a new
page
he said
She wrote down
and said
The old gentleman took out a pair of gold-rimmed spectacles and fitted
them on his nose. When he had read the name, he looked quite different
he said
said Phyllis, in astonishment
said Bobbie, very shy, but firmly resolved
to be polite
said the old gentleman, taking off his hat with a
flourish
said Bobbie, hastily
asked the old gentleman
said Bobbie
The old gentleman laughed
he said
He turned to the others, but there was only one other, and that was
Peter. Phyllis had disappeared
said the old gentleman again. And, quite
naturally, Peter was stricken dumb
said the old gentleman
He did, and out came their names and ages -- their Father's name and
business -- how long they had lived at Three Chimneys and a great deal
more.

The questions were beginning to turn on a herring and a half for three
halfpence, and a pound of lead and a pound of feathers, when the door of
the waiting room was kicked open by a boot; as the boot entered everyone
could see that its lace was coming undone -- and in came Phyllis, very
slowly and carefully.

In one hand she carried a large tin can, and in the other a thick slice
of bread and butter
she announced proudly, and held the can and the bread
and butter out to the old gentleman, who took them and said
said Phyllis
said the old gentleman
said Bobbie
said Phyllis, flushing red
she added
said the old gentleman, and he drank some of the tea and
tasted the bread and butter.

And then it was time for the next train, and he got into it with many
good-byes and kind last words
said Peter, when they were left on the platform, and the
tail-lights of the train disappeared round the corner
And so there were.

It wasn't ten days after the interview in the waiting room that the
three children were sitting on the top of the biggest rock in the field
below their house watching the 5.15 steam away from the station along
the bottom of the valley. They saw, too, the few people who had got out
at the station straggling up the road towards the village -- and they saw
one person leave the road and open the gate that led across the fields
to Three Chimneys and to nowhere else
said Peter, scrambling down
said Phyllis.

So they did. And when they got near enough to see who the person was,
they saw it was their old gentleman himself, his brass buttons winking
in the afternoon sunshine, and his white waistcoat looking whiter than
ever against the green of the field
shouted the children, waving their hands
shouted the old gentleman, waving his hat.

Then the three started to run -- and when they got to him they hardly had
breath left to say
said he
But as he looked at Bobbie's face he felt that he COULD resist that
temptation
he said to her
Bobbie ran. But when she had breathlessly panted out the news to the
Russian and Mother sitting in the quiet garden -- when Mother's face had
lighted up so beautifully, and she had said half a dozen quick French
words to the Exile -- Bobbie wished that she had NOT carried the news. For
the Russian sprang up with a cry that made Bobbie's heart leap and then
tremble -- a cry of love and longing such as she had never heard. Then he
took Mother's hand and kissed it gently and reverently -- and then he sank
down in his chair and covered his face with his hands and sobbed. Bobbie
crept away. She did not want to see the others just then.

But she was as gay as anybody when the endless French talking was over,
when Peter had torn down to the village for buns and cakes, and the
girls had got tea ready and taken it out into the garden.

The old gentleman was most merry and delightful. He seemed to be able
to talk in French and English almost at the same moment, and Mother did
nearly as well. It was a delightful time. Mother seemed as if she could
not make enough fuss about the old gentleman, and she said yes at once
when he asked if he might present some "goodies" to his little friends.

The word was new to the children -- but they guessed that it meant sweets,
for the three large pink and green boxes, tied with green ribbon, which
he took out of his bag, held unheard-of layers of beautiful chocolates.

The Russian's few belongings were packed, and they all saw him off at
the station.

Then Mother turned to the old gentleman and said
The children thought this very hard. When they HAD made a friend -- and
such a friend -- they would dearly have liked him to come and see them
again.

What the old gentleman thought they couldn't tell. He only said
said Mother
said the old gentleman, with another of his bows.

And as they turned to go up the hill, Bobbie saw her Mother's face
she said
said Peter
Mother took an arm of each
said Phyllis, skipping joyfully
said Mother
Phyllis went on,
skipping still more gaily
said Mother
and Bobbie and Peter felt her hands
tighten on their arms
said Peter.

Bobbie said
And she started the race, though she hated doing it. YOU know why Bobbie
did that. Mother only thought that Bobbie was tired of walking slowly.
Even Mothers, who love you better than anyone else ever will, don't
always understand
said Perks the
Porter
said Bobbie, glad and flushed by this approval
said Perks; and he seemed quite
surprised, as though a birthday were a thing only granted to a favoured
few
said Bobbie
The children were
taking tea with Mr. Perks in the Porters' room among the lamps and
the railway almanacs. They had brought their own cups and some jam
turnovers. Mr. Perks made tea in a beer can, as usual, and everyone felt
very happy and confidential
said Perks, tipping some more dark brown tea out of the
can into Peter's cup
said Phyllis,
thoughtfully
Perks grinned as he answered
asked Phyllis
said Perks,
briefly
asked Phyllis, eagerly
said Perks
It was this talk that set the children thinking, and, presently,
talking. Perks was, on the whole, the dearest friend they had made. Not
so grand as the Station Master, but more approachable -- less powerful
than the old gentleman, but more confidential
said Bobbie
said Peter
said
Bobbie, indignantly
said Peter, disagreeably, and put his hands in his
pockets
said Phyllis, in haste
said Bobbie
said Peter, grandly
So then they all went up to the Canal bridge. The idea was to fish from
the bridge, but the line was not quite long enough
said Bobbie
It was. The sun was setting in red splendour over the grey and purple
hills, and the canal lay smooth and shiny in the shadow -- no ripple broke
its surface. It was like a grey satin ribbon between the dusky green
silk of the meadows that were on each side of its banks
said Peter
Phyllis and Bobbie remembered how the boys on the canal-boats had thrown
coal at them, and they said so
said Peter
Peter's sisters were kind enough not to remind him how he had NOT fought
the boys when coal had last been thrown. Instead they said
and cautiously climbed down the steep bank to the towing-path.
The line was carefully baited, and for half an hour they fished
patiently and in vain. Not a single nibble came to nourish hope in their
hearts.

All eyes were intent on the sluggish waters that earnestly pretended
they had never harboured a single minnow when a loud rough shout made
them start
said the shout, in most disagreeable tones
An old white horse coming along the towing-path was within half a dozen
yards of them. They sprang to their feet and hastily climbed up the
bank
said Bobbie.

But, alas, the barge, after the manner of barges, stopped under the
bridge
said Peter
The barge did not anchor, because an anchor is not part of a
canal-boat's furniture, but she was moored with ropes fore and aft -- and
the ropes were made fast to the palings and to crowbars driven into the
ground
growled the Bargee, crossly
said Bobbie
said the man
said Peter. He remembered what he had said about
fighting boys, and, besides, he felt safe halfway up the bank
said the man
And
he came across his deck and began to climb down the side of his barge
said Bobbie and Phyllis, in agonised
unison
said Peter
The girls climbed to the top of the bank and stood ready to bolt for
home as soon as they saw their brother out of danger. The way home lay
all down hill. They knew that they all ran well. The Bargee did not look
as if HE did. He was red-faced, heavy, and beefy.

But as soon as his foot was on the towing-path the children saw that
they had misjudged him.

He made one spring up the bank and caught Peter by the leg, dragged him
down -- set him on his feet with a shake -- took him by the ear -- and said
sternly
Peter was always proud afterwards when he remembered that, with the
Bargee's furious fingers tightening on his ear, the Bargee's crimson
countenance close to his own, the Bargee's hot breath on his neck, he
had the courage to speak the truth
said Peter
said the man, giving Peter's ear
a twist -- not a hard one -- but still a twist.

Peter could not say that it was. Bobbie and Phyllis had been holding
on to the railings above and skipping with anxiety. Now suddenly Bobbie
slipped through the railings and rushed down the bank towards Peter, so
impetuously that Phyllis, following more temperately, felt certain that
her sister's descent would end in the waters of the canal. And so it
would have done if the Bargee hadn't let go of Peter's ear -- and caught
her in his jerseyed arm
he said, setting her on her feet
said Bobbie, breathless
said the Bargee
said Bobbie, earnestly
She held out her hands and Phyllis turned out her little empty pocket to
show that really they hadn't any fish concealed about them
said the Bargee, more gently
The children hurried up the bank
shouted the man. And a red-haired woman in a
green plaid shawl came out from the cabin door with a baby in her arms
and threw a coat to him. He put it on, climbed the bank, and slouched
along across the bridge towards the village
he called to her from the bridge.

When he was out of sight the children slowly returned. Peter insisted on
this
he said
Peter's ear was still sore and so were his feelings.

The girls followed him as gallant soldiers might follow the leader of a
forlorn hope
was all they said
said Peter
The sound of the man's footsteps died away along the quiet road. The
peace of the evening was not broken by the notes of the sedge-warblers
or by the voice of the woman in the barge, singing her baby to sleep. It
was a sad song she sang. Something about Bill Bailey and how she wanted
him to come home.

The children stood leaning their arms on the parapet of the bridge; they
were glad to be quiet for a few minutes because all three hearts were
beating much more quickly
said
Peter, thickly
Phyllis said soothingly
said Peter.

Nothing more was said till the woman got off the barge, climbed the
bank, and came across the bridge.

She hesitated, looking at the three backs of the children, then she
said
Peter stayed as he was, but the girls looked round
said the woman
asked Phyllis
said the woman
she added
said Bobbie
said the woman
said Bobbie
The woman's
face brightened as she spoke
said Peter
said the woman
The woman went away
said Phyllis
said Peter briefly
said
Phyllis
So they got down on the towing-path again and Peter fished. He did not
catch anything.

It was almost quite dark, the girls were getting tired, and as Bobbie
said, it was past bedtime, when suddenly Phyllis cried
And she pointed to the canal boat. Smoke was coming from the chimney of
the cabin, had indeed been curling softly into the soft evening air all
the time -- but now other wreaths of smoke were rising, and these were
from the cabin door
said Peter, calmly
cried Phyllis
screamed Bobbie.

In an instant all three made for the barge.

Her mooring ropes were slack, and the little breeze, hardly strong
enough to be felt, had yet been strong enough to drift her stern against
the bank. Bobbie was first -- then came Peter, and it was Peter who
slipped and fell. He went into the canal up to his neck, and his feet
could not feel the bottom, but his arm was on the edge of the barge.
Phyllis caught at his hair. It hurt, but it helped him to get out. Next
minute he had leaped on to the barge, Phyllis following
he shouted to Bobbie
He caught up with Bobbie at the cabin door, and flung her aside very
roughly indeed; if they had been playing, such roughness would have made
Bobbie weep with tears of rage and pain. Now, though he flung her on
to the edge of the hold, so that her knee and her elbow were grazed and
bruised, she only cried
and struggled up again. But not quickly enough.

Peter had already gone down two of the cabin steps into the cloud of
thick smoke. He stopped, remembered all he had ever heard of fires,
pulled his soaked handkerchief out of his breast pocket and tied it over
his mouth. As he pulled it out he said
And this, though he thought it was a lie, was rather good of Peter. It
was meant to keep Bobbie from rushing after him into danger. Of course
it didn't.

The cabin glowed red. A paraffin lamp was burning calmly in an orange
mist
said Peter, lifting the handkerchief from his mouth for a moment
He choked
cried Bobbie, close behind him. Peter pushed her back
more roughly than before, and went on.

Now what would have happened if the baby hadn't cried I don't know -- but
just at that moment it DID cry. Peter felt his way through the dark
smoke, found something small and soft and warm and alive, picked it up
and backed out, nearly tumbling over Bobbie who was close behind. A dog
snapped at his leg -- tried to bark, choked
said Peter, tearing off the handkerchief and
staggering on to the deck.

Bobbie caught at the place where the bark came from, and her hands met
on the fat back of a smooth-haired dog. It turned and fastened its teeth
on her hand, but very gently, as much as to say
Bobbie dropped the dog
said she
Peter was only too glad to hand over the strange little bundle that
squirmed and whimpered in his arms
said Bobbie, quickly
said Peter, firmly
said Bobbie
The baby was carefully handed. Phyllis sat down on the bank and tried to
hush the baby. Peter wrung the water from his sleeves and knickerbocker
legs as well as he could, and it was Bobbie who ran like the wind across
the bridge and up the long white quiet twilight road towards the
There is a nice old-fashioned room at the 'Rose and Crown; where Bargees
and their wives sit of an evening drinking their supper beer, and
toasting their supper cheese at a glowing basketful of coals that
sticks out into the room under a great hooded chimney and is warmer and
prettier and more comforting than any other fireplace _I_ ever saw.

There was a pleasant party of barge people round the fire. You might
not have thought it pleasant, but they did; for they were all friends
or acquaintances, and they liked the same sort of things, and talked
the same sort of talk. This is the real secret of pleasant society. The
Bargee Bill, whom the children had found so disagreeable, was considered
excellent company by his mates. He was telling a tale of his own
wrongs -- always a thrilling subject. It was his barge he was speaking
about
A murmur of sympathy ran round the
room. Breaking noisily in on it came Bobbie. She burst open the swing
door -- crying breathlessly
There was a stupefied silence. Pots of beer were held in mid-air,
paralysed on their way to thirsty mouths
said Bobbie, seeing the bargewoman and making for her
The woman started to her feet, and put a big red hand to her waist, on
the left side, where your heart seems to be when you are frightened or
miserable
she cried in a terrible voice
said Bobbie
She had no breath for more, except
Then she sank on the ale-house bench and tried to get that breath of
relief after running which people call the
But she felt
as though she would never breathe again.

Bill the Bargee rose slowly and heavily. But his wife was a hundred
yards up the road before he had quite understood what was the matter.

Phyllis, shivering by the canal side, had hardly heard the quick
approaching feet before the woman had flung herself on the railing,
rolled down the bank, and snatched the baby from her
said Phyllis, reproachfully
Bill came up later talking in a language with which the children were
wholly unfamiliar. He leaped on to the barge and dipped up pails
of water. Peter helped him and they put out the fire. Phyllis, the
bargewoman, and the baby -- and presently Bobbie, too -- cuddled together in
a heap on the bank
said
the woman again and again.

But it wasn't she. It was Bill the Bargeman, who had knocked his pipe
out and the red ash had fallen on the hearth-rug and smouldered there
and at last broken into flame. Though a stern man he was just. He did
not blame his wife for what was his own fault, as many bargemen, and
other men, too, would have done.

         *          *          *          *          *          *

Mother was half wild with anxiety when at last the three children turned
up at Three Chimneys, all very wet by now, for Peter seemed to have come
off on the others. But when she had disentangled the truth of what had
happened from their mixed and incoherent narrative, she owned that they
had done quite right, and could not possibly have done otherwise. Nor
did she put any obstacles in the way of their accepting the cordial
invitation with which the bargeman had parted from them
he had said
They did not know what locks were; but they were at the bridge at seven,
with bread and cheese and half a soda cake, and quite a quarter of a leg
of mutton in a basket.

It was a glorious day. The old white horse strained at the ropes, the
barge glided smoothly and steadily through the still water. The sky was
blue overhead. Mr. Bill was as nice as anyone could possibly be. No one
would have thought that he could be the same man who had held Peter by
the ear. As for Mrs. Bill, she had always been nice, as Bobbie said, and
so had the baby, and even Spot, who might have bitten them quite badly
if he had liked
said Peter, when they reached home very
happy, very tired, and very dirty
said Mother
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Peter
Phyllis interrupted
said Mother
said Bobbie
said Mother; and she sighed
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
said Peter, loyally
said Phyllis
said Mother
It was breakfast-time. Mother's face was very bright as she poured the
milk and ladled out the porridge
she said
Peter, Phyllis, and Bobbie exchanged glances with each other, six
glances in all. Then Bobbie said
said Mother
said Bobbie
said Mother
said Phyllis
said Peter
said
Mother
said Mother
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Mother
This was all very well as far as it went. But even fourteen halfpenny
buns with A. P. on them in pink sugar do not of themselves make a very
grand celebration
said Bobbie, later, when a really
earnest council was being held on the subject in the hay-loft where
the broken chaff-cutting machine was, and the row of holes to drop hay
through into the hay-racks over the mangers of the stables below
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
So they were all quiet and so very still that a brown rat thought that
there was no one in the loft and came out very boldly. When Bobbie
sneezed, the rat was quite shocked and hurried away, for he saw that a
hay-loft where such things could happen was no place for a respectable
middle-aged rat that liked a quiet life
cried Peter, suddenly
He jumped up and kicked
at the loose hay
said the others, eagerly
said Bobbie,
doubtfully
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Peter
So they went. The old lady at the Post-office said she didn't see why
Perks should have a birthday any more than anyone else
said Bobbie
said the old lady
So they went.

And some people were kind, and some were crusty. And some would give and
some would not. It is rather difficult work asking for things, even for
other people, as you have no doubt found if you have ever tried it.

When the children got home and counted up what had been given and what
had been promised, they felt that for the first day it was not so bad.
Peter wrote down the lists of the things in the little pocket-book where
he kept the numbers of his engines. These were the lists:--

     GIVEN.
     A tobacco pipe from the sweet shop.
     Half a pound of tea from the grocer's.
     A woollen scarf slightly faded from the draper's, which was the
         other side of the grocer's.
     A stuffed squirrel from the Doctor.

     PROMISED.
     A piece of meat from the butcher.
     Six fresh eggs from the woman who lived in the old turnpike cottage.
     A piece of honeycomb and six bootlaces from the cobbler, and an
         iron shovel from the blacksmith's.

Very early next morning Bobbie got up and woke Phyllis. This had been
agreed on between them. They had not told Peter because they thought he
would think it silly. But they told him afterwards, when it had turned
out all right.

They cut a big bunch of roses, and put it in a basket with the
needle-book that Phyllis had made for Bobbie on her birthday, and a very
pretty blue necktie of Phyllis's. Then they wrote on a paper
and they put
the paper in the basket, and they took it to the Post-office, and went
in and put it on the counter and ran away before the old woman at the
Post-office had time to get into her shop.

When they got home Peter had grown confidential over helping Mother to
get the breakfast and had told her their plans
said Mother
said Phyllis
said Mother
said Bobbie, who had suddenly begun to scribble
The morning of the fifteenth was spent very happily in getting the buns
and watching Mother make A. P. on them with pink sugar. You know how
it's done, of course? You beat up whites of eggs and mix powdered sugar
with them, and put in a few drops of cochineal. And then you make a cone
of clean, white paper with a little hole at the pointed end, and put the
pink egg-sugar in at the big end. It runs slowly out at the pointed end,
and you write the letters with it just as though it were a great fat pen
full of pink sugar-ink.

The buns looked beautiful with A. P. on every one, and, when they were
put in a cool oven to set the sugar, the children went up to the village
to collect the honey and the shovel and the other promised things.

The old lady at the Post-office was standing on her doorstep. The
children said
politely, as they passed
she said.

So they stopped
said she
said Phyllis
She skipped joyously
as she spoke
said the Post-office woman. She went in and
brought out the basket. It was full of fat, red gooseberries
said she
said Phyllis, throwing her arms around the old
lady's fat waist
said the old lady, patting Phyllis's
shoulder
said all the children together.

When Mrs. Ransome had got out the perambulator and taken off the careful
papers that covered it, and dusted it all over, she said
said Mrs. Ransome, sighing, and then laughing
All the things that had been collected for Perks were packed into
the perambulator, and at half-past three Peter and Bobbie and Phyllis
wheeled it down to the little yellow house where Perks lived.

The house was very tidy. On the window ledge was a jug of wild-flowers,
big daisies, and red sorrel, and feathery, flowery grasses.

There was a sound of splashing from the wash-house, and a partly washed
boy put his head round the door
he said
a voice sounded down the narrow, freshly scrubbed
stairs.

The children waited. Next moment the stairs creaked and Mrs. Perks came
down, buttoning her bodice. Her hair was brushed very smooth and tight,
and her face shone with soap and water
she said to Bobbie
said Peter
As the presents were being unpacked, Mrs. Perks gasped. When they
were all unpacked, she surprised and horrified the children by sitting
suddenly down on a wooden chair and bursting into tears
said everybody
And Peter added,
perhaps a little impatiently
Mrs. Perks only sobbed. The Perks children, now as shiny-faced as anyone
could wish, stood at the wash-house door, and scowled at the intruders.
There was a silence, an awkward silence
said Peter, again, while his sisters patted Mrs.
Perks on the back.

She stopped crying as suddenly as she had begun
she said
and then she went on and said all
sorts of things that I won't write down, because I am sure that Peter
and Bobbie and Phyllis would not like me to. Their ears got hotter and
hotter, and their faces redder and redder, at the kind things Mrs. Perks
said. They felt they had done nothing to deserve all this praise.

At last Peter said
said Mrs. Perks, with a beaming face
Bobbie asked abruptly. And then Mrs.
Perks hastily laid the table for tea, and the buns and the honey and
the gooseberries were displayed on plates, and the roses were put in two
glass jam jars, and the tea-table looked, as Mrs. Perks said
she said
Perks had indeed unlatched the latch of the little front gate
whispered Bobbie
It was a very nice plan, but it did not quite come off. To begin with,
there was only just time for Peter and Bobbie and Phyllis to rush into
the wash-house, pushing the young and open-mouthed Perks children in
front of them. There was not time to shut the door, so that, without at
all meaning it, they had to listen to what went on in the kitchen. The
wash-house was a tight fit for the Perks children and the Three Chimneys
children, as well as all the wash-house's proper furniture, including
the mangle and the copper
they heard Mr. Perks's voice say
said Mrs. Perks
said Mr. Perks, and there was a sound of a kiss
The children did not hear what Mrs. Perks replied, because just then
Bobbie gave a start, put her hand in her pocket, and all her body grew
stiff with horror
she whispered to the others
said Peter.

And then they heard the voice of Mr. Perks, loud and rather angry
he said
said Mrs. Perks
said Perks, firmly
said poor Mrs Perks
said the angry Perks
he added,
and he took two strides to the wash-house door, and flung it wide
open -- as wide, that is, as it would go, with the tightly packed children
behind it
said Perks
said Phyllis
She burst into tears
said Peter
said Perks
cried Bobbie, trying hard to be braver than Phyllis, and to
find more words than Peter had done for explaining in
said Perks
Bobbie answered
said Perks
said Peter
asked Perks
sniffed Phyllis.

Perks sat down heavily in the elbow-chair and looked at them with what
Bobbie afterwards described as withering glances of gloomy despair
He deliberately turned the chair round so that
his back was turned to the children. The legs of the chair grated on the
brick floor, and that was the only sound that broke the silence.

Then suddenly Bobbie spoke
she said
said Perks, not turning round
said Bobbie, desperately
sniffed Phyllis, wildly
said Peter, in a fierce aside
Bobbie went on desperately
said Perks
said Peter
whined Phyllis
said Perks, grudgingly
said Bobbie, fumbling miserably, yet not without hope, in
her tightly stuffed pocket
But Bobbie could not read the labels just at once. She had to swallow
once or twice before she could begin.

Mrs. Perks had been crying steadily ever since her husband had opened
the wash-house door. Now she caught her breath, choked, and said
said Bobbie, crying on to the slips as she
tried to sort them
Bobbie paused
said Perks
said Bobbie
Bobbie added
said Mrs Perks, firmly
said Perks, gruffly
said Bobbie
said Perks
said Bobbie, in haste
She could say no more, and she turned to go
said Perks, still with his back to them
said Peter
said Perks
he added,
suddenly wheeling the chair round and showing a very odd-looking
screwed-up face
said Mrs. Perks
said Perks, firmly
said Bobbie
said Phyllis,
brightly
said Mr. Perks.

Later on Peter proposed Mr. Perks's health. And Mr. Perks proposed a
toast, also honoured in tea, and the toast was
which was much more poetical than anyone had
expected from him
said Mr. Perks to his wife as they went
to bed
said his wife
All sorts of people were made happy by that birthday party. Mr. Perks
and Mrs. Perks and the little Perkses by all the nice things and by the
kind thoughts of their neighbours; the Three Chimneys children by the
success, undoubted though unexpectedly delayed, of their plan; and Mrs.
Ransome every time she saw the fat Perks baby in the perambulator.
Mrs. Perks made quite a round of visits to thank people for their kind
birthday presents, and after each visit felt that she had a better
friend than she had thought
said Perks, reflectively
said Mrs. Perks
When the clergyman called on Mrs. Perks, she told him all about it
said she
said the clergyman
So you see it was all right in the end. But if one does that sort of
thing, one has to be careful to do it in the right way. For, as Mr.
Perks said, when he had time to think it over, it's not so much what you
do, as what you mean
When they first went to live at Three Chimneys, the children had talked
a great deal about their Father, and had asked a great many questions
about him, and what he was doing and where he was and when he would come
home. Mother always answered their questions as well as she could. But
as the time went on they grew to speak less of him. Bobbie had felt
almost from the first that for some strange miserable reason these
questions hurt Mother and made her sad. And little by little the others
came to have this feeling, too, though they could not have put it into
words.

One day, when Mother was working so hard that she could not leave off
even for ten minutes, Bobbie carried up her tea to the big bare room
that they called Mother's workshop. It had hardly any furniture. Just
a table and a chair and a rug. But always big pots of flowers on the
window-sills and on the mantelpiece. The children saw to that. And from
the three long uncurtained windows the beautiful stretch of meadow and
moorland, the far violet of the hills, and the unchanging changefulness
of cloud and sky
said Bobbie
Mother laid down her pen among the pages that were scattered all over
the table, pages covered with her writing, which was almost as plain
as print, and much prettier. She ran her hands into her hair, as if she
were going to pull it out by handfuls
said Bobbie
said Mother
said Bobbie, indignantly
Bobbie stood first on one leg and then on the other
she said
said Mother
Bobbie did not find it easy to say why
she said and stopped. She went over to the window and looked
out
said her Mother, and Bobbie came
said Mother, putting her arm round Bobbie and laying her ruffled
head against Bobbie's shoulder
Bobbie fidgeted
said Bobbie
said Bobbie
said Mother, still leaning her head against her
said Bobbie, in a very little voice
said Mother
said Bobbie
Bobbie HAD sometimes wondered whether Mother noticed these things
she said
said Mother, giving Bobbie one last
squeeze
That evening in the hour before bed-time instead of reading to the
children Mother told them stories of the games she and Father used
to have when they were children and lived near each other in the
country -- tales of the adventures of Father with Mother's brothers when
they were all boys together. Very funny stories they were, and the
children laughed as they listened
said Phyllis, as
Mother lighted the bedroom candles
said Mother
said Phyllis, in a shocked tone
said Peter
said Mother
said everyone. Bobbie hugged her mother more closely even
than usual, and whispered in her ear
When Bobbie came to think it all over, she tried not to wonder what
the great trouble was. But she could not always help it. Father was not
dead -- like poor Uncle Edward -- Mother had said so. And he was not ill, or
Mother would have been with him. Being poor wasn't the trouble. Bobbie
knew it was something nearer the heart than money could be
she told herself
And alas, that very afternoon she and Peter had what Peter called a
first-class shindy.

They had not been a week at Three Chimneys before they had asked Mother
to let them have a piece of garden each for their very own, and she had
agreed, and the south border under the peach trees had been divided into
three pieces and they were allowed to plant whatever they liked there.

Phyllis had planted mignonette and nasturtium and Virginia Stock in
hers. The seeds came up, and though they looked just like weeds, Phyllis
believed that they would bear flowers some day. The Virginia Stock
justified her faith quite soon, and her garden was gay with a band of
bright little flowers, pink and white and red and mauve
she used to say
comfortably
Peter sowed vegetable seeds in his -- carrots and onions and turnips.
The seed was given to him by the farmer who lived in the nice
black-and-white, wood-and-plaster house just beyond the bridge. He
kept turkeys and guinea fowls, and was a most amiable man. But Peter's
vegetables never had much of a chance, because he liked to use the earth
of his garden for digging canals, and making forts and earthworks for
his toy soldiers. And the seeds of vegetables rarely come to much in
a soil that is constantly disturbed for the purposes of war and
irrigation.

Bobbie planted rose-bushes in her garden, but all the little new leaves
of the rose-bushes shrivelled and withered, perhaps because she moved
them from the other part of the garden in May, which is not at all the
right time of year for moving roses. But she would not own that they
were dead, and hoped on against hope, until the day when Perks came up
to see the garden, and told her quite plainly that all her roses were as
dead as doornails
he said
So next day she set to work, and that happened to be the day when Mother
had praised her and the others about not quarrelling. She moved the
rose-bushes and carried them to the other end of the garden, where the
rubbish heap was that they meant to make a bonfire of when Guy Fawkes'
Day came.

Meanwhile Peter had decided to flatten out all his forts and earthworks,
with a view to making a model of the railway-tunnel, cutting,
embankment, canal, aqueduct, bridges, and all.

So when Bobbie came back from her last thorny journey with the dead
rose-bushes, he had got the rake and was using it busily
said Bobbie
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Peter. And that was how the quarrel began
said Peter, after some
heated argument
said Bobbie, flushed and defiant, holding on to
its handle
Phyllis said she didn't want to be mixed up in their rows. And
instantly, of course, she was
said Peter. This was always recognised as indicating the high-water mark
of Peter's rage.

Bobbie made the reply she always made to it
and just as she said
it she looked up, and saw the three long windows of Mother's workshop
flashing in the red rays of the sun. The sight brought back those words
of praise
cried Bobbie, just as if she had been hit, or had caught her
finger in a door, or had felt the hideous sharp beginnings of toothache
said Phyllis.

Bobbie wanted to say
but
though she tried hard, she couldn't. Peter was looking too disagreeable
and insulting
was the best she could manage. And she
suddenly let go her hold on the handle. Peter had been holding on to
it too firmly and pullingly, and now that the pull the other way was
suddenly stopped, he staggered and fell over backward, the teeth of the
rake between his feet
said Bobbie, before she could stop herself.

Peter lay still for half a moment -- long enough to frighten Bobbie a
little. Then he frightened her a little more, for he sat up -- screamed
once -- turned rather pale, and then lay back and began to shriek, faintly
but steadily. It sounded exactly like a pig being killed a quarter of a
mile off.

Mother put her head out of the window, and it wasn't half a minute after
that she was in the garden kneeling by the side of Peter, who never for
an instant ceased to squeal
Mother asked
said Phyllis
said Mother
Peter used up what breath he had left in a last squeal and stopped
said Mother
said Bobbie,
still trembling with fury
said Peter, huffily, and sat
up. Then he turned quite white. Mother put her arm round him
she said
Then Mother undid Peter's boots. As she took the right one off,
something dripped from his foot on to the ground. It was red blood. And
when the stocking came off there were three red wounds in Peter's foot
and ankle, where the teeth of the rake had bitten him, and his foot was
covered with red smears
said Mother, and Phyllis ran. She upset
most of the water out of the basin in her haste, and had to fetch more
in a jug.

Peter did not open his eyes again till Mother had tied her handkerchief
round his foot, and she and Bobbie had carried him in and laid him on
the brown wooden settle in the dining-room. By this time Phyllis was
halfway to the Doctor's.

Mother sat by Peter and bathed his foot and talked to him, and Bobbie
went out and got tea ready, and put on the kettle
she told herself
She stood by the back door reflecting on these gloomy possibilities, her
eyes fixed on the water-butt
she said, and she said it out loud
asked a voice, and Perks stood
before her with a wooden trug basket full of green-leaved things and
soft, loose earth
she said
said Perks
said Perks
Bobbie tried to let herself be cheered by this heartening reminiscence
said Perks
But he was. The Doctor came and looked at the foot and bandaged it
beautifully, and said that Peter must not put it to the ground for at
least a week
whispered Bobbie, breathlessly, at the door
said Dr. Forrest
It was when Mother had gone to the gate with the Doctor to take his last
instructions and Phyllis was filling the kettle for tea, that Peter and
Bobbie found themselves alone
said Bobbie
said Peter, very much relieved all the
same
said Bobbie, after a pause
said Peter, gruffly
said Bobbie
said Peter
said Peter
said Bobbie, in tears
said Peter, firmly
The Gentle Reader may perhaps have suffered from this difficulty
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Peter
said Mother's voice at the door
said Peter
When Mother had gone out
again, Bobbie broke out
said Peter unexpectedly
said Bobbie
said Peter, magnanimously
He was tired for many days after that, and the settle seemed hard and
uncomfortable in spite of all the pillows and bolsters and soft folded
rugs. It was terrible not to be able to go out. They moved the settle
to the window, and from there Peter could see the smoke of the trains
winding along the valley. But he could not see the trains.

At first Bobbie found it quite hard to be as nice to him as she wanted
to be, for fear he should think her priggish. But that soon wore off,
and both she and Phyllis were, as he observed, jolly good sorts. Mother
sat with him when his sisters were out. And the words
made Peter determined not to make any fuss about the pain in
his foot, though it was rather bad, especially at night.

Praise helps people very much, sometimes.

There were visitors, too. Mrs. Perks came up to ask how he was, and so
did the Station Master, and several of the village people. But the time
went slowly, slowly
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Bobbie
So the girls went their two ways.

Bobbie found Perks busy cleaning lamps
said he
said Bobbie
said Perks, regretfully, rubbing his ear with a black
and oily lump of cotton waste
said Perks
He turned to the pile of papers in the corner and took up a heap six
inches thick
he said
He pulled an old newspaper from the pile and spread it on the table, and
made a neat parcel of it
said he
said Bobbie, took the parcel, and started. The papers
were heavy, and when she had to wait at the level-crossing while a train
went by, she rested the parcel on the top of the gate. And idly she
looked at the printing on the paper that the parcel was wrapped in.

Suddenly she clutched the parcel tighter and bent her head over it. It
seemed like some horrible dream. She read on -- the bottom of the column
was torn off -- she could read no farther.

She never remembered how she got home. But she went on tiptoe to her
room and locked the door. Then she undid the parcel and read that
printed column again, sitting on the edge of her bed, her hands and feet
icy cold and her face burning. When she had read all there was, she drew
a long, uneven breath
she said.

What she had read was headed
The name of the man who had been tried was the name of her Father.
The verdict was
And the sentence was
she whispered, crushing the paper hard
There was a hammering on the door
said Bobbie
said the voice of Phyllis
And Bobbie had to
Bobbie knew the secret now. A sheet of old newspaper wrapped round a
parcel -- just a little chance like that -- had given the secret to her. And
she had to go down to tea and pretend that there was nothing the matter.
The pretence was bravely made, but it wasn't very successful.

For when she came in, everyone looked up from tea and saw her
pink-lidded eyes and her pale face with red tear-blotches on it
cried Mother, jumping up from the tea-tray
said Bobbie. And indeed it did
Mother asked
said Bobbie, and she telegraphed to her Mother
from her swollen eyes this brief, imploring message
Tea was not a cheerful meal. Peter was so distressed by the obvious fact
that something horrid had happened to Bobbie that he limited his speech
to repeating
at startlingly short
intervals. Phyllis stroked her sister's hand under the table to express
sympathy, and knocked her cup over as she did it. Fetching a cloth and
wiping up the spilt milk helped Bobbie a little. But she thought that
tea would never end. Yet at last it did end, as all things do at last,
and when Mother took out the tray, Bobbie followed her
said Phyllis to Peter
said Peter
Bobbie, in the kitchen, had caught hold of Mother's hand as she set down
the tea-things
Mother asked.

But Bobbie only said
When she had got Mother alone in her room she locked the door and then
stood quite still, and quite without words.

All through tea she had been thinking of what to say; she had decided
that
or
or
would be the proper thing. But now that she and
her Mother and that awful sheet of newspaper were alone in the room
together, she found that she could say nothing.

Suddenly she went to Mother and put her arms round her and began to cry
again. And still she could find no words, only
over and over again.

Mother held her very close and waited.

Suddenly Bobbie broke away from her and went to her bed. From under her
mattress she pulled out the paper she had hidden there, and held it out,
pointing to her Father's name with a finger that shook
Mother cried, when one little quick look had shown her
what it was
Bobbie almost shouted. She had stopped crying
said Mother
Again Bobbie clung to her Mother, and again only one word came to her,
but now that word was
and
again and again
she asked presently
Mother asked
said Mother
said Bobbie
So then, sitting cuddled up close to her Mother, Bobbie heard
She heard how those men, who had asked to see Father on that
remembered last night when the Engine was being mended, had come
to arrest him, charging him with selling State secrets to the
Russians -- with being, in fact, a spy and a traitor. She heard about the
trial, and about the evidence -- letters, found in Father's desk at the
office, letters that convinced the jury that Father was guilty
cried Bobbie
said Mother
said Bobbie,
thoughtfully
Mother said hotly
said Mother, very bitterly
she spoke very softly
said Bobbie, abruptly
said Bobbie
said Mother
The other two were very gentle and kind to Bobbie. And they did not
ask her what was the matter. This was Peter's idea, and he had drilled
Phyllis, who would have asked a hundred questions if she had been left
to herself.

A week later Bobbie managed to get away alone. And once more she wrote a
letter. And once more it was to the old gentleman
she said, "you see what is in this paper. It is
not true. Father never did it. Mother says someone put the papers in
Father's desk, and she says the man under him that got Father's place
afterwards was jealous of Father, and Father suspected him a long time.
But nobody listens to a word she says, but you are so good and clever,
and you found out about the Russian gentleman's wife directly. Can't you
find out who did the treason because he wasn't Father upon my honour;
he is an Englishman and uncapable to do such things, and then they would
let Father out of prison. It is dreadful, and Mother is getting so thin.
She told us once to pray for all prisoners and captives. I see now.
Oh, do help me -- there is only just Mother and me know, and we can't do
anything. Peter and Phil don't know. I'll pray for you twice every day
as long as I live if you'll only try -- just try to find out. Think if it
was YOUR Daddy, what you would feel. Oh, do, do, DO help me. With love

"I remain Your affectionately little friend

"Roberta.

P.S. Mother would send her kind regards if she knew I am writing -- but
it is no use telling her I am, in case you can't do anything. But I know
you will. Bobbie with best love."

She cut the account of her Father's trial out of the newspaper with
Mother's big cutting-out scissors, and put it in the envelope with her
letter.

Then she took it down to the station, going out the back way and round
by the road, so that the others should not see her and offer to come
with her, and she gave the letter to the Station Master to give to the
old gentleman next morning
shouted Peter, from the top of the yard wall
where he and Phyllis were
said Bobbie
She set her foot on the lock of the yard door. Peter reached down a
hand
she asked as she reached the wall-top -- for Phyllis and
Peter were very muddy. A lump of wet clay lay between them on the wall,
they had each a slip of slate in a very dirty hand, and behind Peter,
out of the reach of accidents, were several strange rounded objects
rather like very fat sausages, hollow, but closed up at one end
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter with an air of virtue
said Bobbie, vaguely
said Phyllis, reaching across
Peter to grasp a nest
said her brother. But it was too late; her
strong little fingers had crushed the nest
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Peter
retorted Phyllis
shouted Peter
screamed Phyllis
rejoined Peter
said Bobbie
said the child of that name
Peter was still insisting
interrupted Bobbie
Peter asked
The paperchase was found to be a more amusing subject of conversation
than the reading powers of swallows. Bobbie had hoped it might be. And
next morning Mother let them take their lunch and go out for the day to
see the paperchase
said Peter
Of course it had taken some time to get the line clear from the rocks
and earth and trees that had fallen on it when the great landslip
happened. That was the occasion, you will remember, when the three
children saved the train from being wrecked by waving six little
red-flannel-petticoat flags. It is always interesting to watch people
working, especially when they work with such interesting things as
spades and picks and shovels and planks and barrows, when they have
cindery red fires in iron pots with round holes in them, and red lamps
hanging near the works at night. Of course the children were never
out at night; but once, at dusk, when Peter had got out of his bedroom
skylight on to the roof, he had seen the red lamp shining far away at
the edge of the cutting. The children had often been down to watch the
work, and this day the interest of picks and spades, and barrows being
wheeled along planks, completely put the paperchase out of their heads,
so that they quite jumped when a voice just behind them panted
It was the hare -- a big-boned, loose-limbed boy, with dark
hair lying flat on a very damp forehead. The bag of torn paper under
his arm was fastened across one shoulder by a strap. The children stood
back. The hare ran along the line, and the workmen leaned on their picks
to watch him. He ran on steadily and disappeared into the mouth of the
tunnel
said the foreman
said the oldest workman
said the foreman
murmured
the foreman, doubtfully
said one of the workmen
said
another
said a third
said the oldest workman
And now, following the track of the hare by the little white blots of
scattered paper, came the hounds. There were thirty of them, and they
all came down the steep, ladder-like steps by ones and twos and threes
and sixes and sevens. Bobbie and Phyllis and Peter counted them as they
passed. The foremost ones hesitated a moment at the foot of the ladder,
then their eyes caught the gleam of scattered whiteness along the line
and they turned towards the tunnel, and, by ones and twos and threes and
sixes and sevens, disappeared in the dark mouth of it. The last one, in
a red jersey, seemed to be extinguished by the darkness like a candle
that is blown out
said the foreman
Peter asked
said Peter
The counsel seemed good, and they went.

They climbed the steep steps from which they had picked the wild cherry
blossom for the grave of the little wild rabbit, and reaching the top of
the cutting, set their faces towards the hill through which the tunnel
was cut. It was stiff work
said Bobbie, breathlessly
said Peter
gasped Phyllis
panted Peter
Phyllis consented to stick to it -- and on they went, running when the
turf was smooth and the slope easy, climbing over stones, helping
themselves up rocks by the branches of trees, creeping through narrow
openings between tree trunks and rocks, and so on and on, up and up,
till at last they stood on the very top of the hill where they had so
often wished to be
cried Peter, and threw himself flat on the grass. For the very
top of the hill was a smooth, turfed table-land, dotted with mossy rocks
and little mountain-ash trees.

The girls also threw themselves down flat
Peter panted
When they were rested enough to sit up and look round them, Bobbie
cried
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter. And there was. For when they had got down
to a level with the top of the tunnel's mouth -- they were a couple of
hundred yards out of their reckoning and had to creep along the face of
the hill -- there was no sign of the hare or the hounds
said Phyllis, as they leaned on the
brick parapet above the tunnel
said Bobbie
said Phyllis, partially appeased.

It was really a most exciting place to be in. The top of the tunnel
seemed ever so much farther from the line than they had expected, and
it was like being on a bridge, but a bridge overgrown with bushes and
creepers and grass and wild-flowers
said Phyllis every two
minutes, and she hardly knew whether she was pleased or disappointed
when Peter, leaning over the parapet, suddenly cried
They all leaned over the sun-warmed brick wall in time to see the hare,
going very slowly, come out from the shadow of the tunnel
said Peter
Very soon came the hounds -- by ones and twos and threes and sixes and
sevens -- and they also were going slowly and seemed very tired. Two or
three who lagged far behind came out long after the others
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
said Peter
But though they waited and waited and waited, the boy in the red jersey
did not appear
said Phyllis
But Bobbie and Peter agreed that he had not come out with the others
said Peter
So the others climbed down and Bobbie waited till they signalled to her
from the line below. And then she, too, scrambled down the roundabout
slippery path among roots and moss till she stepped out between two
dogwood trees and joined the others on the line. And still there was no
sign of the hound with the red jersey
wailed Phyllis
said Peter, not quite unkindly
he added, turning to
Bobbie
asked Bobbie, her mouth already full, for she was just as hungry
as Phyllis
replied Peter, impressively
cried Bobbie, bolting what was left
of her sandwich
pleaded Phyllis
said Peter
and he went.

Of course you know what going into a tunnel is like? The engine gives
a scream and then suddenly the noise of the running, rattling train
changes and grows different and much louder. Grown-up people pull up the
windows and hold them by the strap. The railway carriage suddenly grows
like night -- with lamps, of course, unless you are in a slow local train,
in which case lamps are not always provided. Then by and by the darkness
outside the carriage window is touched by puffs of cloudy whiteness,
then you see a blue light on the walls of the tunnel, then the sound of
the moving train changes once more, and you are out in the good open air
again, and grown-ups let the straps go. The windows, all dim with the
yellow breath of the tunnel, rattle down into their places, and you see
once more the dip and catch of the telegraph wires beside the line, and
the straight-cut hawthorn hedges with the tiny baby trees growing up out
of them every thirty yards.

All this, of course, is what a tunnel means when you are in a train. But
everything is quite different when you walk into a tunnel on your own
feet, and tread on shifting, sliding stones and gravel on a path that
curves downwards from the shining metals to the wall. Then you see
slimy, oozy trickles of water running down the inside of the tunnel,
and you notice that the bricks are not red or brown, as they are at the
tunnel's mouth, but dull, sticky, sickly green. Your voice, when you
speak, is quite changed from what it was out in the sunshine, and it is
a long time before the tunnel is quite dark.

It was not yet quite dark in the tunnel when Phyllis caught at Bobbie's
skirt, ripping out half a yard of gathers, but no one noticed this at
the time
she said
said Peter
That" was a low, humming sound on the railway line, a trembling of the
wires beside it, a buzzing, humming sound that grew louder and louder as
they listened
said Bobbie
cried Phyllis, struggling to get away from the hand by
which Bobbie held her
said Bobbie
shouted Peter, who was a few yards ahead
The roar of the advancing train was now louder than the noise you hear
when your head is under water in the bath and both taps are running, and
you are kicking with your heels against the bath's tin sides. But Peter
had shouted for all he was worth, and Bobbie heard him. She dragged
Phyllis along to the manhole. Phyllis, of course, stumbled over the
wires and grazed both her legs. But they dragged her in, and all three
stood in the dark, damp, arched recess while the train roared louder and
louder. It seemed as if it would deafen them. And, in the distance, they
could see its eyes of fire growing bigger and brighter every instant
shouted Phyllis. But nobody heard her. You see the train
was shouting, too, and its voice was bigger than hers.

And now, with a rush and a roar and a rattle and a long dazzling flash
of lighted carriage windows, a smell of smoke, and blast of hot air, the
train hurtled by, clanging and jangling and echoing in the vaulted roof
of the tunnel. Phyllis and Bobbie clung to each other. Even Peter
caught hold of Bobbie's arm
as he
explained afterwards.

And now, slowly and gradually, the tail-lights grew smaller and smaller,
and so did the noise, till with one last WHIZ the train got itself out
of the tunnel, and silence settled again on its damp walls and dripping
roof
said the children, all together in a whisper.

Peter was lighting the candle end with a hand that trembled
he said; but he had to clear his throat before he could speak
in his natural voice
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
asked Bobbie, severely, and of
course that settled the question.

So the three went on into the deeper darkness of the tunnel. Peter led,
holding his candle end high to light the way. The grease ran down his
fingers, and some of it right up his sleeve. He found a long streak from
wrist to elbow when he went to bed that night.

It was not more than a hundred and fifty yards from the spot where
they had stood while the train went by that Peter stood still, shouted
and then went on much quicker than before. When the others
caught him up, he stopped. And he stopped within a yard of what they had
come into the tunnel to look for. Phyllis saw a gleam of red, and
shut her eyes tight. There, by the curved, pebbly down line, was the
red-jerseyed hound. His back was against the wall, his arms hung limply
by his sides, and his eyes were shut
asked Phyllis, screwing her
eyelids more tightly together
said Peter
asked Bobbie
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Phyllis, in a tone of exasperated triumph
And now Peter rubbed the hands of the red-jerseyed one. Bobbie burned
the feathers of the shuttlecock one by one under his nose, Phyllis
splashed warmish milk on his forehead, and all three kept on saying as
fast and as earnestly as they could
The children said the
words over and over again to the unconscious hound in a red jersey, who
sat with closed eyes and pale face against the side of the tunnel
said Bobbie
So they wetted his ears, and some of the milk ran down his neck under
the red jersey. It was very dark in the tunnel. The candle end Peter had
carried, and which now burned on a flat stone, gave hardly any light at
all
said Phyllis
repeated Bobbie
said Peter
And he shook the sufferer
by the arm.

And then the boy in the red jersey sighed, and opened his eyes, and shut
them again and said in a very small voice
said Phyllis
and she began to
cry
said the boy
said Peter, firmly, thrusting the nose of the milk bottle
into the boy's mouth. The boy struggled, and some of the milk was upset
before he could get his mouth free to say
said Peter
said Bobbie, gently
So he drank. And the three stood by without speaking to him
Peter whispered
He was
he announced
He tried to
move, but the movement ended in a groan
he said
asked Phyllis, sniffing
said the boy, indignantly
said Peter, with pride
remarked the boy
said Peter, with modesty
said the boy.

He did try. But he could only stand on one foot; the other dragged in a
very nasty way
said the boy
He lay down and closed his eyes. The others looked
at each other by the dim light of the little candle
said Peter
said Bobbie, quickly
said Peter
They did it. It was perhaps as well for the sufferer that he had fainted
again
said Bobbie
said Peter,
doubtfully
said Bobbie
said Peter
said Bobbie, impatiently
So they hurried up.

Bobbie watched their dark figures and the little light of the little
candle with an odd feeling of having come to the end of everything. She
knew now, she thought, what nuns who were bricked up alive in convent
walls felt like. Suddenly she gave herself a little shake
she said. She was always very angry when
anyone else called her a little girl, even if the adjective that went
first was not "silly" but "nice" or "good" or
And it was only
when she was very angry with herself that she allowed Roberta to use
that expression to Bobbie.

She fixed the little candle end on a broken brick near the red-jerseyed
boy's feet. Then she opened Peter's knife. It was always hard to
manage -- a halfpenny was generally needed to get it open at all. This
time Bobbie somehow got it open with her thumbnail. She broke the nail,
and it hurt horribly. Then she cut the boy's bootlace, and got the boot
off. She tried to pull off his stocking, but his leg was dreadfully
swollen, and it did not seem to be the proper shape. So she cut the
stocking down, very slowly and carefully. It was a brown, knitted
stocking, and she wondered who had knitted it, and whether it was the
boy's mother, and whether she was feeling anxious about him, and how she
would feel when he was brought home with his leg broken. When Bobbie had
got the stocking off and saw the poor leg, she felt as though the tunnel
was growing darker, and the ground felt unsteady, and nothing seemed
quite real
said Roberta to Bobbie, and felt better
she told herself
She remembered the day when she and Phyllis had torn up their red
flannel petticoats to make danger signals to stop the train and prevent
an accident. Her flannel petticoat to-day was white, but it would be
quite as soft as a red one. She took it off
she said
And she said
it aloud, because it seemed that any voice, even her own, would be a
comfort in that darkness
asked the boy, suddenly and very
feebly
said Bobbie
She had folded the petticoat, and lifting his leg laid it on the cushion
of folded flannel
said Bobbie, as he groaned. She
hastily wetted her handkerchief with milk and spread it over the poor
leg
cried the boy, shrinking
said Bobbie
said Bobbie
said Jim
He reached
out a red-jerseyed arm and Bobbie squeezed his hand
she explained
He felt in his pocket
She took it and wetted it with milk and put it on his forehead
he said
said Bobbie
said Jim
said Bobbie
said he
Bobbie blew. Out went the candle. You have no idea how black-velvety the
darkness was
said a voice through the blackness
said the boy, and it was really rather good of him,
because he was like most boys of his age and hated all material tokens
of affection, such as kissing and holding of hands. He called all such
things
and detested them.

The darkness was more bearable to Bobbie now that her hand was held in
the large rough hand of the red-jerseyed sufferer; and he, holding her
little smooth hot paw, was surprised to find that he did not mind it so
much as he expected. She tried to talk, to amuse him, and "take his mind
off" his sufferings, but it is very difficult to go on talking in the
dark, and presently they found themselves in a silence, only broken now
and then by a
or an
And it was very cold.

          *          *          *          *          *          *

Peter and Phyllis tramped down the long way of the tunnel towards
daylight, the candle-grease dripping over Peter's fingers. There were no
accidents unless you count Phyllis's catching her frock on a wire, and
tearing a long, jagged slit in it, and tripping over her bootlace when
it came undone, or going down on her hands and knees, all four of which
were grazed
said Phyllis -- and indeed it did seem
very very long
said Peter
Which is quite true, if you come to think of it, and a useful thing
to remember in seasons of trouble -- such as measles, arithmetic,
impositions, and those times when you are in disgrace, and feel as
though no one would ever love you again, and you could never -- never
again -- love anybody
said Peter, suddenly
The pin-hole got larger -- blue lights lay along the sides of the tunnel.
The children could see the gravel way that lay in front of them; the air
grew warmer and sweeter. Another twenty steps and they were out in the
good glad sunshine with the green trees on both sides.

Phyllis drew a long breath
said she
said Peter, as usual
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis, pointing down the line
said Peter
said Phyllis
and she started to run along the line.
So Peter ran, too.

It was very hot in the sunshine, and both children were hot and
breathless by the time they stopped, and bending their heads back to
look up at the open windows of the signal-box, shouted
as loud
as their breathless state allowed. But no one answered. The signal-box
stood quiet as an empty nursery, and the handrail of its steps was hot
to the hands of the children as they climbed softly up. They peeped
in at the open door. The signalman was sitting on a chair tilted back
against the wall. His head leaned sideways, and his mouth was open. He
was fast asleep
cried Peter
And he cried it in a terrible voice,
for he knew that if a signalman sleeps on duty, he risks losing his
situation, let alone all the other dreadful risks to trains which expect
him to tell them when it is safe for them to go their ways.

The signalman never moved. Then Peter sprang to him and shook him. And
slowly, yawning and stretching, the man awoke. But the moment he WAS
awake he leapt to his feet, put his hands to his head
as Phyllis said afterwards, and shouted
said Peter, and indeed it was by the white-faced,
round-faced clock on the wall of the signal-box.

The man looked at the clock, sprang to the levers, and wrenched them
this way and that. An electric bell tingled -- the wires and cranks
creaked, and the man threw himself into a chair. He was very pale,
and the sweat stood on his forehead
as Phyllis remarked later. He was trembling, too; the children
could see his big hairy hands shake from side to side
to use the subsequent words of Peter. He drew
long breaths. Then suddenly he cried
and his shoulders began to heave and his
face grew red again, and he hid it in those large hairy hands of his
said Phyllis
and she
patted him on one big, broad shoulder, while Peter conscientiously
thumped the other.

But the signalman seemed quite broken down, and the children had to
pat him and thump him for quite a long time before he found his
handkerchief -- a red one with mauve and white horseshoes on it -- and
mopped his face and spoke. During this patting and thumping interval a
train thundered by
were the words of the big signalman
when he had stopped crying
Then suddenly he
seemed to get cross
he said
said Phyllis
he stopped and then went on
said Peter
said the man
said Peter, indignantly, but Phyllis ignored the
whole of the signalman's speech, except the first six words
she said
said the
man
said Phyllis, kindly
Then Peter told how the boy came to be in the tunnel
said the man
said Phyllis
said the man, more and more grumpy, as Phyllis
noticed
said Peter.

But the man said
He put his hand in his pocket and
brought out some money -- a lot of pennies and one or two shillings and
sixpences and half-a-crown. He picked out two shillings and held them
out
he said
There was a short, unpleasant pause. Then
said Phyllis.

Peter took a step forward and knocked the man's hand up, so that the
shillings leapt out of it and rolled on the floor
he said
and marched out of the signal-box with flaming cheeks.

Phyllis hesitated. Then she took the hand, still held out stupidly, that
the shillings had been in
she said
cried Peter, eagerly
said Phyllis, feeling how noble it was of her to try to make
up a quarrel in which she was not to blame.

The signalman stooped and kissed her
he said
So Phil left the hot signal-box and followed Peter across the fields to
the farm.

When the farm men, led by Peter and Phyllis and carrying a hurdle
covered with horse-cloths, reached the manhole in the tunnel, Bobbie
was fast asleep and so was Jim. Worn out with the pain, the Doctor said
afterwards
the bailiff from the farm asked, when Jim had been
lifted on to the hurdle
answered Bobbie
said Jim
said the
bailiff
said Bobbie
said Bobbie
said the bailiff
whispered Jim
said Bobbie
said the bailiff
said Peter
Thus it happened that Mother, writing away for dear life at a story
about a Duchess, a designing villain, a secret passage, and a missing
will, dropped her pen as her work-room door burst open, and turned to
see Bobbie hatless and red with running
she cried
said Mother, with a worried frown
said Bobbie, between laughing and
choking
said Bobbie
Mother smiled, but she sighed, too. It is nice that your children should
believe you willing to open house and heart to any and every one who
needs help. But it is rather embarrassing sometimes, too, when they act
on their belief
said Mother
When Jim was carried in, dreadfully white and with set lips whose red
had faded to a horrid bluey violet colour, Mother said
And Jim, looking at her kind eyes, felt a little, warm, comforting flush
of new courage
he said
said Mother
And she kissed him just as if he had been Peter
said Bobbie -- and she saw by her Mother's face how right she had
been to bring home the wounded hound in the red jersey
Mother did not get back to her writing all that day, for the
red-jerseyed hound whom the children had brought to Three Chimneys had
to be put to bed. And then the Doctor came, and hurt him most horribly.
Mother was with him all through it, and that made it a little better
than it would have been, but
as Mrs. Viney said.

The children sat in the parlour downstairs and heard the sound of the
Doctor's boots going backwards and forwards over the bedroom floor. And
once or twice there was a groan
said Bobbie
said Peter
said the two girls at once
said Peter
cried Bobbie, with a white face
said Phyllis, whose face was pink
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Peter
A chair was moved above
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter. I can't think what made him so
horrid. Perhaps it was because he had been so very nice and kind all the
earlier part of the day, and now he had to have a change. This is called
reaction. One notices it now and then in oneself. Sometimes when one has
been extra good for a longer time than usual, one is suddenly attacked
by a violent fit of not being good at all
said Peter
said Phyllis.

But Bobbie said suddenly
said Peter
The ropes that had tied up the boxes that had come from home were all
in a wooden packing-case in the cellar. When Peter brought in a trailing
tangle of them, and two boards for splints, Phyllis was excitedly
giggling
he said, and lay down on the settle, groaning most
grievously
said Bobbie, beginning to wind the rope round him and the
settle
moaned Peter
Bobbie worked on in silence, winding more and more rope round him
said Peter
He
groaned again
asked Bobbie, in a rather strange tone
replied Peter
he asked cheerfully
said Bobbie, sternly, folding her arms and
looking down at him where he lay all wound round and round with cord
said Peter, writhing
said Bobbie
said Peter
Bobbie and Phil, retiring in silent dignity, were met at the door by the
Doctor. He came in rubbing his hands and looking pleased with himself
he said
His eye had fallen on Peter who lay mousy-still in his bonds on the
settle
he said; but his eyebrows had gone up a
little. Somehow he had not thought that Bobbie would be playing while in
the room above someone was having a broken bone set
said Bobbie
The Doctor frowned
he said, and he said it rather sternly
said Phyllis
said Bobbie
said Peter, crossly
said Dr. Forrest, sitting down
He managed to writhe over and hide his face against the wooden back of
the settle
said Bobbie, indignantly
answering Peter's unspoken reproach
said Peter
said the Doctor, though really he did not quite know
what to say
said
Peter, in very surly tones, as Bobbie and Phyllis began to untie the
knots
Bobbie whispered, leaning close to him as she
fumbled with the big knot under the settle
Peter rejoined. Then
he shook off the loose cords, and stood up
said Dr. Forrest
Peter went without a word or a look to his sisters.

The two walked in silence up to the gate that led from the Three
Chimneys field to the road. Then Peter said
Peter was silent
said Dr. Forrest.

Peter told. And then Dr. Forrest told him stories of brave rescues; he
was a most interesting man to talk to, as Peter had often remarked.

Then in the surgery Peter had a better chance than he had ever had of
examining the Doctor's balance, and his microscope, and his scales and
measuring glasses. When all the things were ready that Peter was to take
back, the Doctor said suddenly
thought Peter, who had been wondering how it was
that he had escaped one
added the Doctor
said Peter, fiddling with the fossil ammonite that the Doctor
used for a paper-weight
Peter liked the
Perhaps the Doctor had known he would
muttered Peter, indignantly
he added
said Peter, interested
said Peter
the Doctor went on
he went on
he ended
abruptly
said Peter
said Peter
They shook hands heartily. When Peter came home, his sisters looked at
him doubtfully
said Peter, dumping down the basket on the table
said Phyllis, with flaming cheeks
said Bobbie
said Phyllis, springing at him.

"He said 'Pax,'" said Bobbie, pulling her away
she
whispered as Peter picked up the basket and stalked out with it
said Phyllis, doubtfully
said Bobbie
And when Peter came back, still with his chin in the air, Bobbie said
said Peter, very stiff and superior.

This was hard to bear. But
said Bobbie
said Peter, in an injured tone
said Bobbie
said Phyllis, when peace was really restored, which was not
till they were washing up the cups after tea
said Peter, firmly
said Phyllis, breaking a cup
Peter was at the door of Mother's writing room,
where Mother sat at her table with two candles in front of her. Their
flames looked orange and violet against the clear grey blue of the sky
where already a few stars were twinkling
said Mother, absently
She wrote a few
more words and then laid down her pen and began to fold up what she had
written
said Mother, laughing
Peter went on
said Mother
Peter confessed
said Mother
Peter
suggested
said Mother
said Peter, musingly
Mother asked, rather coldly, Peter
thought
said Peter, briefly.

Mother was enveloping and addressing the second letter
Peter went on slowly
Peter's Mother put her arm round him suddenly, and hugged him in silence
for a minute. Then she said
Peter asked quietly
she said
For what was left of the evening Peter was so angelic that Bobbie feared
he was going to be ill. She was quite relieved in the morning to find
him plaiting Phyllis's hair on to the back of her chair in quite his old
manner.

It was soon after breakfast that a knock came at the door. The children
were hard at work cleaning the brass candlesticks in honour of Jim's
visit
said Mother
But it wasn't the Doctor. They knew that by the voice and by the sound
of the boots that went upstairs. They did not recognise the sound of the
boots, but everyone was certain that they had heard the voice before.

There was a longish interval. The boots and the voice did not come down
again
they kept on asking themselves and each other
said Peter at last
said Mrs. Viney from the back kitchen
said Phyllis
said Peter, briskly
He did
he replied indignantly to Bobbie's scandalised
remarks
called Mother's voice.

They opened the kitchen door, and Mother leaned over the stair railing
she said
The bedroom door shut again
said Peter
The three were indeed dirty, for the stuff you clean brass candlesticks
with is very far from cleaning to the cleaner.

They were still busy with soap and flannel when they heard the boots
and the voice come down the stairs and go into the dining-room. And when
they were clean, though still damp -- because it takes such a long time
to dry your hands properly, and they were very impatient to see the
grandfather -- they filed into the dining-room.

Mother was sitting in the window-seat, and in the leather-covered
armchair that Father always used to sit in at the other house sat --

     THEIR OWN OLD GENTLEMAN
said Peter, even before he said
He was, as he explained afterwards, too surprised even to remember that
there was such a thing as politeness -- much less to practise it
said Phyllis
said Bobbie. And then they remembered themselves and
their manners and said
very nicely
said Mother, naming the old
gentleman's name
said Peter
said Mother, smiling
said Phyllis
said Peter
said the old gentleman
said Peter, before anyone could stop him
said Mother, hastily.

The old gentleman looked very kindly at Mother
he said
said Mother
he said
said Phyllis, blankly
said Mother, hurriedly
said the old
gentleman
asked Peter
said the old gentleman, with a slight, swift glance at
Bobbie
said Mother, very quickly
said the old gentleman
said Mother
said Phyllis
said Mother, in a low voice to the old gentleman
The old gentleman rose
said Peter
said the old gentleman
whispered Bobbie
said the old gentleman, taking both Mother's hands
At the gate he stopped and said
said Bobbie, choking a little
said Bobbie
he said
he said
If it was a false hope, it was none the less a very radiant one that lay
warm at Bobbie's heart, and through the days that followed lighted her
little face as a Japanese lantern is lighted by the candle within
Life at the Three Chimneys was never quite the same again after the old
gentleman came to see his grandson. Although they now knew his name,
the children never spoke of him by it -- at any rate, when they were by
themselves. To them he was always the old gentleman, and I think he had
better be the old gentleman to us, too. It wouldn't make him seem any
more real to you, would it, if I were to tell you that his name was
Snooks or Jenkins (which it wasn't)?-- and, after all, I must be allowed
to keep one secret. It's the only one; I have told you everything else,
except what I am going to tell you in this chapter, which is the last.
At least, of course, I haven't told you EVERYTHING. If I were to do
that, the book would never come to an end, and that would be a pity,
wouldn't it?

Well, as I was saying, life at Three Chimneys was never quite the same
again. The cook and the housemaid were very nice (I don't mind telling
you their names -- they were Clara and Ethelwyn), but they told Mother
they did not seem to want Mrs. Viney, and that she was an old muddler.
So Mrs. Viney came only two days a week to do washing and ironing. Then
Clara and Ethelwyn said they could do the work all right if they weren't
interfered with, and that meant that the children no longer got the tea
and cleared it away and washed up the tea-things and dusted the rooms.

This would have left quite a blank in their lives, although they
had often pretended to themselves and to each other that they hated
housework. But now that Mother had no writing and no housework to do,
she had time for lessons. And lessons the children had to do. However
nice the person who is teaching you may be, lessons are lessons all the
world over, and at their best are worse fun than peeling potatoes or
lighting a fire.

On the other hand, if Mother now had time for lessons, she also had time
for play, and to make up little rhymes for the children as she used
to do. She had not had much time for rhymes since she came to Three
Chimneys.

There was one very odd thing about these lessons. Whatever the children
were doing, they always wanted to be doing something else. When Peter
was doing his Latin, he thought it would be nice to be learning History
like Bobbie. Bobbie would have preferred Arithmetic, which was what
Phyllis happened to be doing, and Phyllis of course thought Latin much
the most interesting kind of lesson. And so on.

So, one day, when they sat down to lessons, each of them found a little
rhyme at its place. I put the rhymes in to show you that their Mother
really did understand a little how children feel about things, and also
the kind of words they use, which is the case with very few grown-up
people. I suppose most grown-ups have very bad memories, and have
forgotten how they felt when they were little. Of course, the verses are
supposed to be spoken by the children.

               PETER

     I once thought Caesar easy pap --
       How very soft I must have been!
     When they start Caesar with a chap
       He little know what that will mean.
     Oh, verbs are silly stupid things.
     I'd rather learn the dates of kings!

               BOBBIE

     The worst of all my lesson things
       Is learning who succeeded who
     In all the rows of queens and kings,
       With dates to everything they do:
     With dates enough to make you sick;--
     I wish it was Arithmetic!

               PHYLLIS

     Such pounds and pounds of apples fill
       My slate -- what is the price you'd spend?
     You scratch the figures out until
       You cry upon the dividend.
     I'd break the slate and scream for joy
     If I did Latin like a boy!

This kind of thing, of course, made lessons much jollier. It is
something to know that the person who is teaching you sees that it is
not all plain sailing for you, and does not think that it is just your
stupidness that makes you not know your lessons till you've learned
them!

Then as Jim's leg got better it was very pleasant to go up and sit with
him and hear tales about his school life and the other boys. There
was one boy, named Parr, of whom Jim seemed to have formed the lowest
possible opinion, and another boy named Wigsby Minor, for whose views
Jim had a great respect. Also there were three brothers named Paley, and
the youngest was called Paley Terts, and was much given to fighting.

Peter drank in all this with deep joy, and Mother seemed to have
listened with some interest, for one day she gave Jim a sheet of paper
on which she had written a rhyme about Parr, bringing in Paley and
Wigsby by name in a most wonderful way, as well as all the reasons Jim
had for not liking Parr, and Wigsby's wise opinion on the matter. Jim
was immensely pleased. He had never had a rhyme written expressly for
him before. He read it till he knew it by heart and then he sent it to
Wigsby, who liked it almost as much as Jim did. Perhaps you may like it,
too.

               THE NEW BOY

     His name is Parr:  he says that he
     Is given bread and milk for tea.
     He says his father killed a bear.
     He says his mother cuts his hair.

     He wears goloshes when it's wet.
     I've heard his people call him "Pet"!
     He has no proper sense of shame;
     He told the chaps his Christian name.

     He cannot wicket-keep at all,
     He's frightened of a cricket ball.
     He reads indoors for hours and hours.
     He knows the names of beastly flowers.

     He says his French just like Mossoo --
     A beastly stuck-up thing to do --
     He won't keep _cave_, shirks his turn
     And says he came to school to learn!

     He won't play football, says it hurts;
     He wouldn't fight with Paley Terts;
     He couldn't whistle if he tried,
     And when we laughed at him he cried!

     Now Wigsby Minor says that Parr
     Is only like all new boys are.
     I know when _I_ first came to school
     I wasn't such a jolly fool!

Jim could never understand how Mother could have been clever enough
to do it. To the others it seemed nice, but natural. You see they had
always been used to having a mother who could write verses just like
the way people talk, even to the shocking expression at the end of the
rhyme, which was Jim's very own.

Jim taught Peter to play chess and draughts and dominoes, and altogether
it was a nice quiet time.

Only Jim's leg got better and better, and a general feeling began to
spring up among Bobbie, Peter, and Phyllis that something ought to be
done to amuse him; not just games, but something really handsome. But it
was extraordinarily difficult to think of anything
said Peter, when all of them had thought and thought
till their heads felt quite heavy and swollen
said Phyllis, rather as though, usually, everything that happened in the
world was her doing
said Bobbie, dreamily
And something wonderful did happen exactly four days after she had said
this. I wish I could say it was three days after, because in fairy tales
it is always three days after that things happen. But this is not a
fairy story, and besides, it really was four and not three, and I am
nothing if not strictly truthful.

They seemed to be hardly Railway children at all in those days, and as
the days went on each had an uneasy feeling about this which Phyllis
expressed one day
she said, plaintively
said Bobbie
said Peter
explained Phyllis
said Bobbie, on this fourth day, which was a
Tuesday
said Phyllis. And they did.

Somehow the change of everything that was made by having servants in
the house and Mother not doing any writing, made the time seem extremely
long since that strange morning at the beginning of things, when they
had got up so early and burnt the bottom out of the kettle and had apple
pie for breakfast and first seen the Railway.

It was September now, and the turf on the slope to the Railway was dry
and crisp. Little long grass spikes stood up like bits of gold wire,
frail blue harebells trembled on their tough, slender stalks, Gipsy
roses opened wide and flat their lilac-coloured discs, and the golden
stars of St. John's Wort shone at the edges of the pool that lay halfway
to the Railway. Bobbie gathered a generous handful of the flowers and
thought how pretty they would look lying on the green-and-pink blanket
of silk-waste that now covered Jim's poor broken leg
said Peter
said Phyllis
said Peter
said Phyllis
went on Bobbie
cried Peter
They ran. And once more they waved their handkerchiefs, without at all
minding whether the handkerchiefs were clean or not, to the 9.15
cried Bobbie. And the others, too, shouted
The old gentleman waved from his first-class carriage window. Quite
violently he waved. And there was nothing odd in that, for he always
had waved. But what was really remarkable was that from every window
handkerchiefs fluttered, newspapers signalled, hands waved wildly. The
train swept by with a rustle and roar, the little pebbles jumped and
danced under it as it passed, and the children were left looking at each
other
said Peter
said Bobbie
said Phyllis
asked Peter, but he did not expect
any answer
said Bobbie
Now, curiously enough, this was just what had happened. The old
gentleman, who was very well known and respected at his particular
station, had got there early that morning, and he had waited at the door
where the young man stands holding the interesting machine that clips
the tickets, and he had said something to every single passenger who
passed through that door. And after nodding to what the old gentleman
had said -- and the nods expressed every shade of surprise, interest,
doubt, cheerful pleasure, and grumpy agreement -- each passenger had gone
on to the platform and read one certain part of his newspaper. And when
the passengers got into the train, they had told the other passengers
who were already there what the old gentleman had said, and then the
other passengers had also looked at their newspapers and seemed very
astonished and, mostly, pleased. Then, when the train passed the fence
where the three children were, newspapers and hands and handkerchiefs
were waved madly, till all that side of the train was fluttery with
white like the pictures of the King's Coronation in the biograph at
Maskelyne and Cook's. To the children it almost seemed as though the
train itself was alive, and was at last responding to the love that they
had given it so freely and so long
said Peter
echoed Phyllis.

But Bobbie said
said the others
said Bobbie
asked Peter, not unnaturally
Bobbie answered
said Peter
This was but too true. The suspender had given way in the agitation of
the waves to the 9.15. Bobbie's handkerchief served as first aid to the
injured, and they all went home.

Lessons were more than usually difficult to Bobbie that day. Indeed, she
disgraced herself so deeply over a quite simple sum about the division
of 48 pounds of meat and 36 pounds of bread among 144 hungry children
that Mother looked at her anxiously
she asked
was Bobbie's unexpected answer
said Mother
Bobbie dropped her slate. It cracked just across the little green mark
that is so useful for drawing patterns round, and it was never the same
slate again. Without waiting to pick it up she bolted. Mother caught her
in the hall feeling blindly among the waterproofs and umbrellas for her
garden hat
said Mother
Bobbie answered, a little breathlessly
Mother said, stroking her hair back from
her forehead
said Bobbie.

But she could not stay in the garden. The hollyhocks and the asters and
the late roses all seemed to be waiting for something to happen. It was
one of those still, shiny autumn days, when everything does seem to be
waiting.

Bobbie could not wait
she said
So she went down. On the way she passed the old lady from the
Post-office, who gave her a kiss and a hug, but, rather to Bobbie's
surprise, no words except
and, after a pause
The draper's boy, who had sometimes been a little less than civil and
a little more than contemptuous, now touched his cap, and uttered the
remarkable words
The blacksmith, coming along with an open newspaper in his hand, was
even more strange in his manner. He grinned broadly, though, as a rule,
he was a man not given to smiles, and waved the newspaper long before
he came up to her. And as he passed her, he said, in answer to her "Good
morning
said Bobbie to herself, and her heart quickened its beats
The Station Master wrung her hand warmly. In fact he worked it up and
down like a pump-handle. But he gave her no reason for this unusually
enthusiastic greeting. He only said
and went away very quickly into that inner Temple of his into which even
Bobbie dared not follow him.

Perks was not to be seen, and Bobbie shared the solitude of the platform
with the Station Cat. This tortoiseshell lady, usually of a retiring
disposition, came to-day to rub herself against the brown stockings of
Bobbie with arched back, waving tail, and reverberating purrs
said Bobbie, stooping to stroke her
Perks did not appear until the 11.54 was signalled, and then he, like
everybody else that morning, had a newspaper in his hand
he said
He
looked at Bobbie a moment, then said
and with that he kissed her,
first on one cheek and then on the other
he asked anxiously
said Bobbie
said Perks
asked Bobbie, but already the 11.54 was
steaming into the station and the Station Master was looking at all the
places where Perks was not and ought to have been.

Bobbie was left standing alone, the Station Cat watching her from under
the bench with friendly golden eyes.

Of course you know already exactly what was going to happen. Bobbie was
not so clever. She had the vague, confused, expectant feeling that comes
to one's heart in dreams. What her heart expected I can't tell -- perhaps
the very thing that you and I know was going to happen -- but her mind
expected nothing; it was almost blank, and felt nothing but tiredness
and stupidness and an empty feeling, like your body has when you have
been a long walk and it is very far indeed past your proper dinner-time.

Only three people got out of the 11.54. The first was a countryman with
two baskety boxes full of live chickens who stuck their russet heads
out anxiously through the wicker bars; the second was Miss Peckitt, the
grocer's wife's cousin, with a tin box and three brown-paper parcels;
and the third
That scream went like a knife into the heart
of everyone in the train, and people put their heads out of the windows
to see a tall pale man with lips set in a thin close line, and a little
girl clinging to him with arms and legs, while his arms went tightly
round her
said Bobbie, as they
went up the road
Father asked
The clasp of a hand she had not forgotten assured her that it was
said Bobbie
he said
They stopped a minute then.

And now I see them crossing the field. Bobbie goes into the house,
trying to keep her eyes from speaking before her lips have found the
right words to "tell Mother quite quietly" that the sorrow and the
struggle and the parting are over and done, and that Father has come
home.

I see Father walking in the garden, waiting -- waiting. He is looking at
the flowers, and each flower is a miracle to eyes that all these months
of Spring and Summer have seen only flagstones and gravel and a little
grudging grass. But his eyes keep turning towards the house. And
presently he leaves the garden and goes to stand outside the nearest
door. It is the back door, and across the yard the swallows are
circling. They are getting ready to fly away from cold winds and keen
frost to the land where it is always summer. They are the same swallows
that the children built the little clay nests for.

Now the house door opens. Bobbie's voice calls
He goes in and the door is shut. I think we will not open the door or
follow him. I think that just now we are not wanted there. I think it
will be best for us to go quickly and quietly away. At the end of the
field, among the thin gold spikes of grass and the harebells and Gipsy
roses and St. John's Wort, we may just take one last look, over our
shoulders, at the white house where neither we nor anyone else is wanted
now
</text>
