<text>
When Mary Lennox was sent to Misselthwaite Manor to live with her uncle
everybody said she was the most disagreeable-looking child ever seen.
It was true, too.  She had a little thin face and a little thin body,
thin light hair and a sour expression.  Her hair was yellow, and her
face was yellow because she had been born in India and had always been
ill in one way or another.  Her father had held a position under the
English Government and had always been busy and ill himself, and her
mother had been a great beauty who cared only to go to parties and
amuse herself with gay people.  She had not wanted a little girl at
all, and when Mary was born she handed her over to the care of an Ayah,
who was made to understand that if she wished to please the Mem Sahib
she must keep the child out of sight as much as possible.  So when she
was a sickly, fretful, ugly little baby she was kept out of the way,
and when she became a sickly, fretful, toddling thing she was kept out
of the way also.  She never remembered seeing familiarly anything but
the dark faces of her Ayah and the other native servants, and as they
always obeyed her and gave her her own way in everything, because the
Mem Sahib would be angry if she was disturbed by her crying, by the
time she was six years old she was as tyrannical and selfish a little
pig as ever lived.  The young English governess who came to teach her
to read and write disliked her so much that she gave up her place in
three months, and when other governesses came to try to fill it they
always went away in a shorter time than the first one.  So if Mary had
not chosen to really want to know how to read books she would never
have learned her letters at all.

One frightfully hot morning, when she was about nine years old, she
awakened feeling very cross, and she became crosser still when she saw
that the servant who stood by her bedside was not her Ayah
she said to the strange woman
The woman looked frightened, but she only stammered that the Ayah could
not come and when Mary threw herself into a passion and beat and kicked
her, she looked only more frightened and repeated that it was not
possible for the Ayah to come to Missie Sahib.

There was something mysterious in the air that morning.  Nothing was
done in its regular order and several of the native servants seemed
missing, while those whom Mary saw slunk or hurried about with ashy and
scared faces.  But no one would tell her anything and her Ayah did not
come.  She was actually left alone as the morning went on, and at last
she wandered out into the garden and began to play by herself under a
tree near the veranda.  She pretended that she was making a flower-bed,
and she stuck big scarlet hibiscus blossoms into little heaps of earth,
all the time growing more and more angry and muttering to herself the
things she would say and the names she would call Saidie when she
returned
she said, because to call a native a pig
is the worst insult of all.

She was grinding her teeth and saying this over and over again when she
heard her mother come out on the veranda with some one.  She was with a
fair young man and they stood talking together in low strange voices.
Mary knew the fair young man who looked like a boy.  She had heard that
he was a very young officer who had just come from England.  The child
stared at him, but she stared most at her mother.  She always did this
when she had a chance to see her, because the Mem Sahib -- Mary used to
call her that oftener than anything else -- was such a tall, slim, pretty
person and wore such lovely clothes.  Her hair was like curly silk and
she had a delicate little nose which seemed to be disdaining things,
and she had large laughing eyes.  All her clothes were thin and
floating, and Mary said they were
They looked fuller of
lace than ever this morning, but her eyes were not laughing at all.
They were large and scared and lifted imploringly to the fair boy
officer's face
Mary heard her say
the young man answered in a trembling voice
The Mem Sahib wrung her hands
she cried
At that very moment such a loud sound of wailing broke out from the
servants' quarters that she clutched the young man's arm, and Mary
stood shivering from head to foot.  The wailing grew wilder and wilder
Mrs. Lennox gasped
answered the boy officer
the Mem Sahib cried
and she turned and ran into the house.

After that, appalling things happened, and the mysteriousness of the
morning was explained to Mary.  The cholera had broken out in its most
fatal form and people were dying like flies.  The Ayah had been taken
ill in the night, and it was because she had just died that the
servants had wailed in the huts.  Before the next day three other
servants were dead and others had run away in terror.  There was panic
on every side, and dying people in all the bungalows.

During the confusion and bewilderment of the second day Mary hid
herself in the nursery and was forgotten by everyone.  Nobody thought
of her, nobody wanted her, and strange things happened of which she
knew nothing.  Mary alternately cried and slept through the hours.  She
only knew that people were ill and that she heard mysterious and
frightening sounds.  Once she crept into the dining-room and found it
empty, though a partly finished meal was on the table and chairs and
plates looked as if they had been hastily pushed back when the diners
rose suddenly for some reason.  The child ate some fruit and biscuits,
and being thirsty she drank a glass of wine which stood nearly filled.
It was sweet, and she did not know how strong it was.  Very soon it
made her intensely drowsy, and she went back to her nursery and shut
herself in again, frightened by cries she heard in the huts and by the
hurrying sound of feet.  The wine made her so sleepy that she could
scarcely keep her eyes open and she lay down on her bed and knew
nothing more for a long time.

Many things happened during the hours in which she slept so heavily,
but she was not disturbed by the wails and the sound of things being
carried in and out of the bungalow.

When she awakened she lay and stared at the wall.  The house was
perfectly still.  She had never known it to be so silent before.  She
heard neither voices nor footsteps, and wondered if everybody had got
well of the cholera and all the trouble was over.  She wondered also
who would take care of her now her Ayah was dead.  There would be a new
Ayah, and perhaps she would know some new stories.  Mary had been
rather tired of the old ones.  She did not cry because her nurse had
died.  She was not an affectionate child and had never cared much for
any one.  The noise and hurrying about and wailing over the cholera had
frightened her, and she had been angry because no one seemed to
remember that she was alive.  Everyone was too panic-stricken to think
of a little girl no one was fond of.  When people had the cholera it
seemed that they remembered nothing but themselves.  But if everyone
had got well again, surely some one would remember and come to look for
her.

But no one came, and as she lay waiting the house seemed to grow more
and more silent.  She heard something rustling on the matting and when
she looked down she saw a little snake gliding along and watching her
with eyes like jewels.  She was not frightened, because he was a
harmless little thing who would not hurt her and he seemed in a hurry
to get out of the room.  He slipped under the door as she watched him
she said
Almost the next minute she heard footsteps in the compound, and then on
the veranda.  They were men's footsteps, and the men entered the
bungalow and talked in low voices.  No one went to meet or speak to
them and they seemed to open doors and look into rooms
she heard one voice say
Mary was standing in the middle of the nursery when they opened the
door a few minutes later.  She looked an ugly, cross little thing and
was frowning because she was beginning to be hungry and feel
disgracefully neglected.  The first man who came in was a large officer
she had once seen talking to her father.  He looked tired and troubled,
but when he saw her he was so startled that he almost jumped back
he cried out
the little girl said, drawing herself up stiffly.
She thought the man was very rude to call her father's bungalow
exclaimed the man, turning to his
companions
Mary said, stamping her foot
The young man whose name was Barney looked at her very sadly.  Mary
even thought she saw him wink his eyes as if to wink tears away
he said
It was in that strange and sudden way that Mary found out that she had
neither father nor mother left; that they had died and been carried
away in the night, and that the few native servants who had not died
also had left the house as quickly as they could get out of it, none of
them even remembering that there was a Missie Sahib.  That was why the
place was so quiet.  It was true that there was no one in the bungalow
but herself and the little rustling snake
Mary had liked to look at her mother from a distance and she had
thought her very pretty, but as she knew very little of her she could
scarcely have been expected to love her or to miss her very much when
she was gone.  She did not miss her at all, in fact, and as she was a
self-absorbed child she gave her entire thought to herself, as she had
always done.  If she had been older she would no doubt have been very
anxious at being left alone in the world, but she was very young, and
as she had always been taken care of, she supposed she always would be.
What she thought was that she would like to know if she was going to
nice people, who would be polite to her and give her her own way as her
Ayah and the other native servants had done.

She knew that she was not going to stay at the English clergyman's
house where she was taken at first.  She did not want to stay.  The
English clergyman was poor and he had five children nearly all the same
age and they wore shabby clothes and were always quarreling and
snatching toys from each other.  Mary hated their untidy bungalow and
was so disagreeable to them that after the first day or two nobody
would play with her.  By the second day they had given her a nickname
which made her furious.

It was Basil who thought of it first.  Basil was a little boy with
impudent blue eyes and a turned-up nose, and Mary hated him.  She was
playing by herself under a tree, just as she had been playing the day
the cholera broke out.  She was making heaps of earth and paths for a
garden and Basil came and stood near to watch her.  Presently he got
rather interested and suddenly made a suggestion
he said
and he leaned over her to point
cried Mary
For a moment Basil looked angry, and then he began to tease.  He was
always teasing his sisters.  He danced round and round her and made
faces and sang and laughed
He sang it until the other children heard and laughed, too; and the
crosser Mary got, the more they sang "Mistress Mary, quite contrary";
and after that as long as she stayed with them they called her
"Mistress Mary Quite Contrary" when they spoke of her to each other,
and often when they spoke to her
Basil said to her
answered Mary
said Basil, with seven-year-old
scorn
snapped Mary
Basil answered
said
Mary; and she turned her back and stuck her fingers in her ears,
because she would not listen any more.

But she thought over it a great deal afterward; and when Mrs. Crawford
told her that night that she was going to sail away to England in a few
days and go to her uncle, Mr. Archibald Craven, who lived at
Misselthwaite Manor, she looked so stony and stubbornly uninterested
that they did not know what to think about her.  They tried to be kind
to her, but she only turned her face away when Mrs. Crawford attempted
to kiss her, and held herself stiffly when Mr. Crawford patted her
shoulder
Mrs. Crawford said pityingly, afterward
sighed Mrs. Crawford
Mary made the long voyage to England under the care of an officer's
wife, who was taking her children to leave them in a boarding-school.
She was very much absorbed in her own little boy and girl, and was
rather glad to hand the child over to the woman Mr. Archibald Craven
sent to meet her, in London.  The woman was his housekeeper at
Misselthwaite Manor, and her name was Mrs. Medlock.  She was a stout
woman, with very red cheeks and sharp black eyes.  She wore a very
purple dress, a black silk mantle with jet fringe on it and a black
bonnet with purple velvet flowers which stuck up and trembled when she
moved her head.  Mary did not like her at all, but as she very seldom
liked people there was nothing remarkable in that; besides which it was
very evident Mrs. Medlock did not think much of her
she said
the
officer's wife said good-naturedly
answered Mrs. Medlock
They thought Mary was not listening because she was standing a
little apart from them at the window of the private hotel they had gone
to.  She was watching the passing buses and cabs and people, but she
heard quite well and was made very curious about her uncle and the
place he lived in.  What sort of a place was it, and what would he be
like? What was a hunchback?  She had never seen one.  Perhaps there
were none in India.

Since she had been living in other people's houses and had had no Ayah,
she had begun to feel lonely and to think queer thoughts which were new
to her.  She had begun to wonder why she had never seemed to belong to
anyone even when her father and mother had been alive.  Other children
seemed to belong to their fathers and mothers, but she had never seemed
to really be anyone's little girl.  She had had servants, and food and
clothes, but no one had taken any notice of her.  She did not know that
this was because she was a disagreeable child; but then, of course, she
did not know she was disagreeable.  She often thought that other people
were, but she did not know that she was so herself.

She thought Mrs. Medlock the most disagreeable person she had ever
seen, with her common, highly colored face and her common fine bonnet.
When the next day they set out on their journey to Yorkshire, she
walked through the station to the railway carriage with her head up and
trying to keep as far away from her as she could, because she did not
want to seem to belong to her.  It would have made her angry to think
people imagined she was her little girl.

But Mrs. Medlock was not in the least disturbed by her and her
thoughts.  She was the kind of woman who would
At least, that is what she would have said if she had been
asked.  She had not wanted to go to London just when her sister Maria's
daughter was going to be married, but she had a comfortable, well paid
place as housekeeper at Misselthwaite Manor and the only way in which
she could keep it was to do at once what Mr. Archibald Craven told her
to do.  She never dared even to ask a question
Mr. Craven had said
in his short, cold way
So she packed her small trunk and made the journey.

Mary sat in her corner of the railway carriage and looked plain and
fretful.  She had nothing to read or to look at, and she had folded her
thin little black-gloved hands in her lap.  Her black dress made her
look yellower than ever, and her limp light hair straggled from under
her black crepe hat
Mrs. Medlock
thought.  (Marred is a Yorkshire word and means spoiled and pettish.)
She had never seen a child who sat so still without doing anything; and
at last she got tired of watching her and began to talk in a brisk,
hard voice
she said
said Mary
said Mary frowning.  She frowned because she remembered that her
father and mother had never talked to her about anything in particular.
Certainly they had never told her things
muttered Mrs. Medlock, staring at her queer, unresponsive
little face.  She did not say any more for a few moments and then she
began again
Mary said nothing at all, and Mrs. Medlock looked rather discomfited by
her apparent indifference, but, after taking a breath, she went on
She paused and
took another breath
she ended suddenly.

Mary had begun to listen in spite of herself.  It all sounded so unlike
India, and anything new rather attracted her.  But she did not intend
to look as if she were interested.  That was one of her unhappy,
disagreeable ways.  So she sat still
said Mrs. Medlock
she answered
That made Mrs. Medlock laugh a short sort of laugh
she said
It doesn't matter" said Mary
said Mrs. Medlock
She stopped herself as if she had just remembered something in time
she said
Mary's eyes turned toward her in spite of her intention not to seem to
care.  She had never thought of the hunchback's being married and she
was a trifle surprised.  Mrs. Medlock saw this, and as she was a
talkative woman she continued with more interest.  This was one way of
passing some of the time, at any rate
positively
Mary gave a little involuntary jump
she exclaimed, quite without meaning to.  She had
just remembered a French fairy story she had once read called
It had been about a poor hunchback and a beautiful princess
and it had made her suddenly sorry for Mr. Archibald Craven
Mrs. Medlock answered
It sounded like something in a book and it did not make Mary feel
cheerful.  A house with a hundred rooms, nearly all shut up and with
their doors locked -- a house on the edge of a moor -- whatsoever a moor
was -- sounded dreary.  A man with a crooked back who shut himself up
also! She stared out of the window with her lips pinched together, and
it seemed quite natural that the rain should have begun to pour down in
gray slanting lines and splash and stream down the window-panes. If the
pretty wife had been alive she might have made things cheerful by being
something like her own mother and by running in and out and going to
parties as she had done in frocks
But she was not there
any more
said
Mrs. Medlock
said sour little Mary and just
as suddenly as she had begun to be rather sorry for Mr. Archibald
Craven she began to cease to be sorry and to think he was unpleasant
enough to deserve all that had happened to him.

And she turned her face toward the streaming panes of the window of the
railway carriage and gazed out at the gray rain-storm which looked as
if it would go on forever and ever.  She watched it so long and
steadily that the grayness grew heavier and heavier before her eyes and
she fell asleep
She slept a long time, and when she awakened Mrs. Medlock had bought a
lunchbasket at one of the stations and they had some chicken and cold
beef and bread and butter and some hot tea.  The rain seemed to be
streaming down more heavily than ever and everybody in the station wore
wet and glistening waterproofs.  The guard lighted the lamps in the
carriage, and Mrs. Medlock cheered up very much over her tea and
chicken and beef.  She ate a great deal and afterward fell asleep
herself, and Mary sat and stared at her and watched her fine bonnet
slip on one side until she herself fell asleep once more in the corner
of the carriage, lulled by the splashing of the rain against the
windows.  It was quite dark when she awakened again.  The train had
stopped at a station and Mrs. Medlock was shaking her
she said
Mary stood up and tried to keep her eyes open while Mrs. Medlock
collected her parcels.  The little girl did not offer to help her,
because in India native servants always picked up or carried things and
it seemed quite proper that other people should wait on one.

The station was a small one and nobody but themselves seemed to be
getting out of the train.  The station-master spoke to Mrs. Medlock in
a rough, good-natured way, pronouncing his words in a queer broad
fashion which Mary found out afterward was Yorkshire
he said
answered Mrs. Medlock, speaking with a Yorkshire
accent herself and jerking her head over her shoulder toward Mary
A brougham stood on the road before the little outside platform.  Mary
saw that it was a smart carriage and that it was a smart footman who
helped her in.  His long waterproof coat and the waterproof covering of
his hat were shining and dripping with rain as everything was, the
burly station-master included.

When he shut the door, mounted the box with the coachman, and they
drove off, the little girl found herself seated in a comfortably
cushioned corner, but she was not inclined to go to sleep again.  She
sat and looked out of the window, curious to see something of the road
over which she was being driven to the queer place Mrs. Medlock had
spoken of.  She was not at all a timid child and she was not exactly
frightened, but she felt that there was no knowing what might happen in
a house with a hundred rooms nearly all shut up -- a house standing on
the edge of a moor
she said suddenly to Mrs. Medlock
the woman
answered
Mary asked no more questions but waited in the darkness of her corner,
keeping her eyes on the window.  The carriage lamps cast rays of light
a little distance ahead of them and she caught glimpses of the things
they passed.  After they had left the station they had driven through a
tiny village and she had seen whitewashed cottages and the lights of a
public house.  Then they had passed a church and a vicarage and a
little shop-window or so in a cottage with toys and sweets and odd
things set out for sale.  Then they were on the highroad and she saw
hedges and trees.  After that there seemed nothing different for a long
time -- or at least it seemed a long time to her.

At last the horses began to go more slowly, as if they were climbing
up-hill, and presently there seemed to be no more hedges and no more
trees.  She could see nothing, in fact, but a dense darkness on either
side.  She leaned forward and pressed her face against the window just
as the carriage gave a big jolt
said Mrs. Medlock.

The carriage lamps shed a yellow light on a rough-looking road which
seemed to be cut through bushes and low-growing things which ended in
the great expanse of dark apparently spread out before and around them.
A wind was rising and making a singular, wild, low, rushing sound
said Mary, looking round at her
companion
answered Mrs. Medlock
said
Mary
Mrs. Medlock said
On and on they drove through the darkness, and though the rain stopped,
the wind rushed by and whistled and made strange sounds.  The road went
up and down, and several times the carriage passed over a little bridge
beneath which water rushed very fast with a great deal of noise.  Mary
felt as if the drive would never come to an end and that the wide,
bleak moor was a wide expanse of black ocean through which she was
passing on a strip of dry land
she said to herself
and she
pinched her thin lips more tightly together.

The horses were climbing up a hilly piece of road when she first caught
sight of a light.  Mrs. Medlock saw it as soon as she did and drew a
long sigh of relief
she exclaimed
It was
as she said, for when the carriage passed through
the park gates there was still two miles of avenue to drive through and
the trees (which nearly met overhead) made it seem as if they were
driving through a long dark vault.

They drove out of the vault into a clear space and stopped before an
immensely long but low-built house which seemed to ramble round a stone
court.  At first Mary thought that there were no lights at all in the
windows, but as she got out of the carriage she saw that one room in a
corner upstairs showed a dull glow.

The entrance door was a huge one made of massive, curiously shaped
panels of oak studded with big iron nails and bound with great iron
bars.  It opened into an enormous hall, which was so dimly lighted that
the faces in the portraits on the walls and the figures in the suits of
armor made Mary feel that she did not want to look at them.  As she
stood on the stone floor she looked a very small, odd little black
figure, and she felt as small and lost and odd as she looked.

A neat, thin old man stood near the manservant who opened the door for
them
he said in a husky voice
Mrs. Medlock answered
Mr. Pitcher said
And then Mary Lennox was led up a broad staircase and down a long
corridor and up a short flight of steps and through another corridor
and another, until a door opened in a wall and she found herself in a
room with a fire in it and a supper on a table.

Mrs. Medlock said unceremoniously
It was in this way Mistress Mary arrived at Misselthwaite Manor and she
had perhaps never felt quite so contrary in all her life
When she opened her eyes in the morning it was because a young
housemaid had come into her room to light the fire and was kneeling on
the hearth-rug raking out the cinders noisily.  Mary lay and watched
her for a few moments and then began to look about the room.  She had
never seen a room at all like it and thought it curious and gloomy.
The walls were covered with tapestry with a forest scene embroidered on
it.  There were fantastically dressed people under the trees and in the
distance there was a glimpse of the turrets of a castle.  There were
hunters and horses and dogs and ladies.  Mary felt as if she were in
the forest with them.  Out of a deep window she could see a great
climbing stretch of land which seemed to have no trees on it, and to
look rather like an endless, dull, purplish sea
she said, pointing out of the window.

Martha, the young housemaid, who had just risen to her feet, looked and
pointed also
she said
with a good-natured grin
answered Mary
Martha said, going back to her
hearth
inquired Mary
answered Martha, cheerfully polishing away at the
grate
Mary listened to her with a grave, puzzled expression.  The native
servants she had been used to in India were not in the least like this.
They were obsequious and servile and did not presume to talk to their
masters as if they were their equals.  They made salaams and called
them "protector of the poor" and names of that sort.  Indian servants
were commanded to do things, not asked.  It was not the custom to say
"please" and "thank you" and Mary had always slapped her Ayah in the
face when she was angry.  She wondered a little what this girl would do
if one slapped her in the face.  She was a round, rosy,
good-natured-looking creature, but she had a sturdy way which made
Mistress Mary wonder if she might not even slap back -- if the person who
slapped her was only a little girl
she said from her pillows, rather
haughtily.

Martha sat up on her heels, with her blacking-brush in her hand, and
laughed, without seeming the least out of temper
she said
Mary asked, still
in her imperious little Indian way.

Martha began to rub her grate again
she said stoutly
demanded Mary.

Martha sat up on her heels again and stared.  She spoke in broad
Yorkshire in her amazement
she said
said Mary
Martha said
answered Mary, quite indignantly
said Martha, evidently not in the least aware that she was
impudent
said Mistress Mary disdainfully.  She could
scarcely stand this.

But Martha was not at all crushed
she answered almost sympathetically
Mary sat up in bed furious
she said
Martha stared and looked hot
she said
disappointedly
Mary did not even try to control her rage and humiliation
She was in such a rage and felt so helpless before the girl's simple
stare, and somehow she suddenly felt so horribly lonely and far away
from everything she understood and which understood her, that she threw
herself face downward on the pillows and burst into passionate sobbing.
She sobbed so unrestrainedly that good-natured Yorkshire Martha was a
little frightened and quite sorry for her.  She went to the bed and
bent over her
she begged
There was something comforting and really friendly in her queer
Yorkshire speech and sturdy way which had a good effect on Mary.  She
gradually ceased crying and became quiet.  Martha looked relieved
she said
When Mary at last decided to get up, the clothes Martha took from the
wardrobe were not the ones she had worn when she arrived the night
before with Mrs. Medlock
she said
She looked the thick white wool coat and dress over, and added with
cool approval
Martha answered
said Mary.

The dressing process was one which taught them both something.  Martha
had "buttoned up" her little sisters and brothers but she had never
seen a child who stood still and waited for another person to do things
for her as if she had neither hands nor feet of her own
she said when Mary quietly
held out her foot
answered Mary, staring
She said that very often
The native servants were
always saying it.  If one told them to do a thing their ancestors had
not done for a thousand years they gazed at one mildly and said
and one knew that was the end of the matter.

It had not been the custom that Mistress Mary should do anything but
stand and allow herself to be dressed like a doll, but before she was
ready for breakfast she began to suspect that her life at Misselthwaite
Manor would end by teaching her a number of things quite new to
her -- things such as putting on her own shoes and stockings, and picking
up things she let fall.  If Martha had been a well-trained fine young
lady's maid she would have been more subservient and respectful and
would have known that it was her business to brush hair, and button
boots, and pick things up and lay them away.  She was, however, only an
untrained Yorkshire rustic who had been brought up in a moorland
cottage with a swarm of little brothers and sisters who had never
dreamed of doing anything but waiting on themselves and on the younger
ones who were either babies in arms or just learning to totter about
and tumble over things.

If Mary Lennox had been a child who was ready to be amused she would
perhaps have laughed at Martha's readiness to talk, but Mary only
listened to her coldly and wondered at her freedom of manner.  At first
she was not at all interested, but gradually, as the girl rattled on in
her good-tempered, homely way, Mary began to notice what she was saying
she said
asked Mary
Mary had never possessed an animal pet of her own and had always
thought she should like one.  So she began to feel a slight interest in
Dickon, and as she had never before been interested in any one but
herself, it was the dawning of a healthy sentiment.  When she went into
the room which had been made into a nursery for her, she found that it
was rather like the one she had slept in.  It was not a child's room,
but a grown-up person's room, with gloomy old pictures on the walls and
heavy old oak chairs.  A table in the center was set with a good
substantial breakfast.  But she had always had a very small appetite,
and she looked with something more than indifference at the first plate
Martha set before her
she said
Martha exclaimed incredulously
repeated Mary
said Martha
said Mary coldly
echoed Martha
said Mary, with the
indifference of ignorance.

Martha looked indignant
she said outspokenly
suggested Mary
answered Martha stoutly
Mary drank some tea and ate a little toast and some marmalade
said Martha
Mary went to the window.  There were gardens and paths and big trees,
but everything looked dull and wintry
Mary glanced about her.  There was nothing to do.  When Mrs. Medlock
had prepared the nursery she had not thought of amusement.  Perhaps it
would be better to go and see what the gardens were like
she inquired.

Martha stared
she answered
It was really this mention of Dickon which made Mary decide to go out,
though she was not aware of it.  There would be, birds outside though
there would not be ponies or sheep.  They would be different from the
birds in India and it might amuse her to look at them.

Martha found her coat and hat for her and a pair of stout little boots
and she showed her her way downstairs
she said,
pointing to a gate in a wall of shrubbery
She seemed to hesitate
a second before she added
asked Mary in spite of herself.  Here was another locked door
added to the hundred in the strange house
After she was gone Mary turned down the walk which led to the door in
the shrubbery.  She could not help thinking about the garden which no
one had been into for ten years.  She wondered what it would look like
and whether there were any flowers still alive in it.  When she had
passed through the shrubbery gate she found herself in great gardens,
with wide lawns and winding walks with clipped borders.  There were
trees, and flower-beds, and evergreens clipped into strange shapes, and
a large pool with an old gray fountain in its midst.  But the
flower-beds were bare and wintry and the fountain was not playing.
This was not the garden which was shut up.  How could a garden be shut
up? You could always walk into a garden.

She was just thinking this when she saw that, at the end of the path
she was following, there seemed to be a long wall, with ivy growing
over it.  She was not familiar enough with England to know that she was
coming upon the kitchen-gardens where the vegetables and fruit were
growing.  She went toward the wall and found that there was a green
door in the ivy, and that it stood open.  This was not the closed
garden, evidently, and she could go into it.

She went through the door and found that it was a garden with walls all
round it and that it was only one of several walled gardens which
seemed to open into one another.  She saw another open green door,
revealing bushes and pathways between beds containing winter
vegetables.  Fruit-trees were trained flat against the wall, and over
some of the beds there were glass frames.  The place was bare and ugly
enough, Mary thought, as she stood and stared about her.  It might be
nicer in summer when things were green, but there was nothing pretty
about it now.

Presently an old man with a spade over his shoulder walked through the
door leading from the second garden.  He looked startled when he saw
Mary, and then touched his cap.  He had a surly old face, and did not
seem at all pleased to see her -- but then she was displeased with his
garden and wore her "quite contrary" expression, and certainly did not
seem at all pleased to see him
she asked
he answered
said Mary, pointing through the other green door
shortly
asked Mary
Mary made no response.  She went down the path and through the second
green door.  There, she found more walls and winter vegetables and
glass frames, but in the second wall there was another green door and
it was not open.  Perhaps it led into the garden which no one had seen
for ten years.  As she was not at all a timid child and always did what
she wanted to do, Mary went to the green door and turned the handle.
She hoped the door would not open because she wanted to be sure she had
found the mysterious garden -- but it did open quite easily and she
walked through it and found herself in an orchard.  There were walls
all round it also and trees trained against them, and there were bare
fruit-trees growing in the winter-browned grass -- but there was no green
door to be seen anywhere.  Mary looked for it, and yet when she had
entered the upper end of the garden she had noticed that the wall did
not seem to end with the orchard but to extend beyond it as if it
enclosed a place at the other side.  She could see the tops of trees
above the wall, and when she stood still she saw a bird with a bright
red breast sitting on the topmost branch of one of them, and suddenly
he burst into his winter song -- almost as if he had caught sight of her
and was calling to her.

She stopped and listened to him and somehow his cheerful, friendly
little whistle gave her a pleased feeling -- even a disagreeable little
girl may be lonely, and the big closed house and big bare moor and big
bare gardens had made this one feel as if there was no one left in the
world but herself.  If she had been an affectionate child, who had been
used to being loved, she would have broken her heart, but even though
she was "Mistress Mary Quite Contrary" she was desolate, and the
bright-breasted little bird brought a look into her sour little face
which was almost a smile.  She listened to him until he flew away.  He
was not like an Indian bird and she liked him and wondered if she
should ever see him again.  Perhaps he lived in the mysterious garden
and knew all about it.

Perhaps it was because she had nothing whatever to do that she thought
so much of the deserted garden.  She was curious about it and wanted to
see what it was like.  Why had Mr. Archibald Craven buried the key? If
he had liked his wife so much why did he hate her garden?  She wondered
if she should ever see him, but she knew that if she did she should not
like him, and he would not like her, and that she should only stand and
stare at him and say nothing, though she should be wanting dreadfully
to ask him why he had done such a queer thing
she thought
She thought of the robin and of the way he seemed to sing his song at
her, and as she remembered the tree-top he perched on she stopped
rather suddenly on the path
she
said
She walked back into the first kitchen-garden she had entered and found
the old man digging there.  She went and stood beside him and watched
him a few moments in her cold little way.  He took no notice of her and
so at last she spoke to him
she said
he answered crustily
he answered
said Mary
he said in a rough voice, stopping his digging for a
moment
answered Mistress Mary
To her surprise the surly old weather-beaten face actually changed its
expression.  A slow smile spread over it and the gardener looked quite
different.  It made her think that it was curious how much nicer a
person looked when he smiled.  She had not thought of it before.

He turned about to the orchard side of his garden and began to
whistle -- a low soft whistle.  She could not understand how such a surly
man could make such a coaxing sound.  Almost the next moment a
wonderful thing happened.  She heard a soft little rushing flight
through the air -- and it was the bird with the red breast flying to
them, and he actually alighted on the big clod of earth quite near to
the gardener's foot
chuckled the old man, and then he spoke to the bird as if
he were speaking to a child
he said
The bird put his tiny head on one side and looked up at him with his
soft bright eye which was like a black dewdrop.  He seemed quite
familiar and not the least afraid.  He hopped about and pecked the
earth briskly, looking for seeds and insects.  It actually gave Mary a
queer feeling in her heart, because he was so pretty and cheerful and
seemed so like a person.  He had a tiny plump body and a delicate beak,
and slender delicate legs
she asked almost in a whisper
Mary asked
It was the queerest thing in the world to see the old fellow.  He
looked at the plump little scarlet-waistcoated bird as if he were both
proud and fond of him
he chuckled
The robin hopped about busily pecking the soil and now and then stopped
and looked at them a little.  Mary thought his black dewdrop eyes gazed
at her with great curiosity.  It really seemed as if he were finding
out all about her.  The queer feeling in her heart increased
she asked
Mistress Mary went a step nearer to the robin and looked at him very
hard
she said.

She had not known before that this was one of the things which made her
feel sour and cross.  She seemed to find it out when the robin looked
at her and she looked at the robin.

The old gardener pushed his cap back on his bald head and stared at her
a minute
he asked.

Mary nodded
he said.

He began to dig again, driving his spade deep into the rich black
garden soil while the robin hopped about very busily employed
Mary inquired.

He stood up to answer her
he answered, and then he added with a surly
chuckle
and he jerked
his thumb toward the robin
said Mary
It is a Yorkshire habit to say what you think with blunt frankness, and
old Ben Weatherstaff was a Yorkshire moor man
he said
This was plain speaking, and Mary Lennox had never heard the truth
about herself in her life.  Native servants always salaamed and
submitted to you, whatever you did.  She had never thought much about
her looks, but she wondered if she was as unattractive as Ben
Weatherstaff and she also wondered if she looked as sour as he had
looked before the robin came.  She actually began to wonder also if she
was
She felt uncomfortable.

Suddenly a clear rippling little sound broke out near her and she
turned round.  She was standing a few feet from a young apple-tree and
the robin had flown on to one of its branches and had burst out into a
scrap of a song.  Ben Weatherstaff laughed outright
asked Mary
replied Ben
said Mary, and she moved toward the little tree softly and
looked up
she said to the robin just as if she
was speaking to a person
And she did not say it either
in her hard little voice or in her imperious Indian voice, but in a
tone so soft and eager and coaxing that Ben Weatherstaff was as
surprised as she had been when she heard him whistle
he cried out
Mary asked, turning round rather in a hurry
Mary would have liked to ask some more questions.  She was almost as
curious about Dickon as she was about the deserted garden.  But just
that moment the robin, who had ended his song, gave a little shake of
his wings, spread them and flew away.  He had made his visit and had
other things to do
Mary cried out, watching him
said old Ben
said Mary
Ben Weatherstaff took up his spade again and began to dig
he mumbled
said Mary
Ben drove his spade deep and looked as uncompanionable as he had looked
when she first saw him
he said
cried Mary
And he actually stopped digging, threw his spade over his shoulder and
walked off, without even glancing at her or saying good-by
At first each day which passed by for Mary Lennox was exactly like the
others.  Every morning she awoke in her tapestried room and found
Martha kneeling upon the hearth building her fire; every morning she
ate her breakfast in the nursery which had nothing amusing in it; and
after each breakfast she gazed out of the window across to the huge
moor which seemed to spread out on all sides and climb up to the sky,
and after she had stared for a while she realized that if she did not
go out she would have to stay in and do nothing -- and so she went out.
She did not know that this was the best thing she could have done, and
she did not know that, when she began to walk quickly or even run along
the paths and down the avenue, she was stirring her slow blood and
making herself stronger by fighting with the wind which swept down from
the moor.  She ran only to make herself warm, and she hated the wind
which rushed at her face and roared and held her back as if it were
some giant she could not see.  But the big breaths of rough fresh air
blown over the heather filled her lungs with something which was good
for her whole thin body and whipped some red color into her cheeks and
brightened her dull eyes when she did not know anything about it.

But after a few days spent almost entirely out of doors she wakened one
morning knowing what it was to be hungry, and when she sat down to her
breakfast she did not glance disdainfully at her porridge and push it
away, but took up her spoon and began to eat it and went on eating it
until her bowl was empty
said
Martha
said Mary, feeling a little surprised her self
answered Martha
said Mary
exclaimed Martha
Mary did not shout, but she looked at things.  There was
nothing else to do.  She walked round and round the gardens and
wandered about the paths in the park.  Sometimes she looked for Ben
Weatherstaff, but though several times she saw him at work he was too
busy to look at her or was too surly.  Once when she was walking toward
him he picked up his spade and turned away as if he did it on purpose.

One place she went to oftener than to any other.  It was the long walk
outside the gardens with the walls round them.  There were bare
flower-beds on either side of it and against the walls ivy grew
thickly.  There was one part of the wall where the creeping dark green
leaves were more bushy than elsewhere.  It seemed as if for a long time
that part had been neglected.  The rest of it had been clipped and made
to look neat, but at this lower end of the walk it had not been trimmed
at all.

A few days after she had talked to Ben Weatherstaff, Mary stopped to
notice this and wondered why it was so.  She had just paused and was
looking up at a long spray of ivy swinging in the wind when she saw a
gleam of scarlet and heard a brilliant chirp, and there, on the top of
the wall, forward perched Ben Weatherstaff's robin redbreast, tilting
forward to look at her with his small head on one side
she cried out
And it did not seem at all
queer to her that she spoke to him as if she were sure that he would
understand and answer her.

He did answer.  He twittered and chirped and hopped along the wall as
if he were telling her all sorts of things.  It seemed to Mistress Mary
as if she understood him, too, though he was not speaking in words.  It
was as if he said
Mary began to laugh, and as he hopped and took little flights along the
wall she ran after him.  Poor little thin, sallow, ugly Mary -- she
actually looked almost pretty for a moment
she cried out, pattering down the walk; and
she chirped and tried to whistle, which last she did not know how to do
in the least.  But the robin seemed to be quite satisfied and chirped
and whistled back at her.  At last he spread his wings and made a
darting flight to the top of a tree, where he perched and sang loudly.
That reminded Mary of the first time she had seen him.  He had been
swinging on a tree-top then and she had been standing in the orchard.
Now she was on the other side of the orchard and standing in the path
outside a wall -- much lower down -- and there was the same tree inside
she said to herself
She ran up the walk to the green door she had entered the first
morning.  Then she ran down the path through the other door and then
into the orchard, and when she stood and looked up there was the tree
on the other side of the wall, and there was the robin just finishing
his song and, beginning to preen his feathers with his beak
she said
She walked round and looked closely at that side of the orchard wall,
but she only found what she had found before -- that there was no door in
it.  Then she ran through the kitchen-gardens again and out into the
walk outside the long ivy-covered wall, and she walked to the end of it
and looked at it, but there was no door; and then she walked to the
other end, looking again, but there was no door
she said
This gave her so much to think of that she began to be quite interested
and feel that she was not sorry that she had come to Misselthwaite
Manor.  In India she had always felt hot and too languid to care much
about anything.  The fact was that the fresh wind from the moor had
begun to blow the cobwebs out of her young brain and to waken her up a
little.

She stayed out of doors nearly all day, and when she sat down to her
supper at night she felt hungry and drowsy and comfortable.  She did
not feel cross when Martha chattered away.  She felt as if she rather
liked to hear her, and at last she thought she would ask her a
question.  She asked it after she had finished her supper and had sat
down on the hearth-rug before the fire
she said.

She had made Martha stay with her and Martha had not objected at all.
She was very young, and used to a crowded cottage full of brothers and
sisters, and she found it dull in the great servants' hall downstairs
where the footman and upper-housemaids made fun of her Yorkshire speech
and looked upon her as a common little thing, and sat and whispered
among themselves.  Martha liked to talk, and the strange child who had
lived in India, and been waited upon by
was novelty enough to
attract her.

She sat down on the hearth herself without waiting to be asked
she said
Mary persisted.

Martha tucked her feet under her and made herself quite comfortable
she said
Mary did not know what
meant until she listened, and then
she understood.  It must mean that hollow shuddering sort of roar which
rushed round and round the house as if the giant no one could see were
buffeting it and beating at the walls and windows to try to break in.
But one knew he could not get in, and somehow it made one feel very
safe and warm inside a room with a red coal fire
she asked, after she had listened.  She
intended to know if Martha did.

Then Martha gave up her store of knowledge
she said
Mary did not ask any more questions.  She looked at the red fire and
listened to the wind
It seemed to be
louder
than ever.  At that moment a very good thing was happening to her.
Four good things had happened to her, in fact, since she came to
Misselthwaite Manor.  She had felt as if she had understood a robin and
that he had understood her; she had run in the wind until her blood had
grown warm; she had been healthily hungry for the first time in her
life; and she had found out what it was to be sorry for some one.

But as she was listening to the wind she began to listen to something
else.  She did not know what it was, because at first she could
scarcely distinguish it from the wind itself.  It was a curious
sound -- it seemed almost as if a child were crying somewhere.  Sometimes
the wind sounded rather like a child crying, but presently Mistress
Mary felt quite sure this sound was inside the house, not outside it.
It was far away, but it was inside.  She turned round and looked at
Martha
she said.

Martha suddenly looked confused
she answered
said Mary
And at that very moment a door must have been opened somewhere
downstairs; for a great rushing draft blew along the passage and the
door of the room they sat in was blown open with a crash, and as they
both jumped to their feet the light was blown out and the crying sound
was swept down the far corridor so that it was to be heard more plainly
than ever
said Mary
Martha ran and shut the door and turned the key, but before she did it
they both heard the sound of a door in some far passage shutting with a
bang, and then everything was quiet, for even the wind ceased
for a few moments
said Martha stubbornly
But something troubled and awkward in her manner made Mistress Mary
stare very hard at her.  She did not believe she was speaking the truth
The next day the rain poured down in torrents again, and when Mary
looked out of her window the moor was almost hidden by gray mist and
cloud.  There could be no going out today
she asked
Martha
Martha answered
The time had come when Mary had forgotten to resent Martha's familiar
talk.  She had even begun to find it interesting and to be sorry when
she stopped or went away.  The stories she had been told by her Ayah
when she lived in India had been quite unlike those Martha had to tell
about the moorland cottage which held fourteen people who lived in four
little rooms and never had quite enough to eat.  The children seemed to
tumble about and amuse themselves like a litter of rough, good-natured
collie puppies.  Mary was most attracted by the mother and Dickon.
When Martha told stories of what "mother" said or did they always
sounded comfortable
said Mary
Martha looked perplexed
she asked
answered Mary
said Mary
said Martha
Mary did not ask where the library was, because she was suddenly
inspired by a new idea.  She made up her mind to go and find it
herself.  She was not troubled about Mrs. Medlock.  Mrs. Medlock seemed
always to be in her comfortable housekeeper's sitting-room downstairs.
In this queer place one scarcely ever saw any one at all.  In fact,
there was no one to see but the servants, and when their master was
away they lived a luxurious life below stairs, where there was a huge
kitchen hung about with shining brass and pewter, and a large servants'
hall where there were four or five abundant meals eaten every day, and
where a great deal of lively romping went on when Mrs. Medlock was out
of the way.

Mary's meals were served regularly, and Martha waited on her, but no
one troubled themselves about her in the least.  Mrs. Medlock came and
looked at her every day or two, but no one inquired what she did or
told her what to do.  She supposed that perhaps this was the English
way of treating children.  In India she had always been attended by her
Ayah, who had followed her about and waited on her, hand and foot.  She
had often been tired of her company.  Now she was followed by nobody
and was learning to dress herself because Martha looked as though she
thought she was silly and stupid when she wanted to have things handed
to her and put on
she said once, when Mary had stood
waiting for her to put on her gloves for her
Mary had worn her contrary scowl for an hour after that, but it made
her think several entirely new things.

She stood at the window for about ten minutes this morning after Martha
had swept up the hearth for the last time and gone downstairs.  She was
thinking over the new idea which had come to her when she heard of the
library.  She did not care very much about the library itself, because
she had read very few books; but to hear of it brought back to her mind
the hundred rooms with closed doors.  She wondered if they were all
really locked and what she would find if she could get into any of
them.  Were there a hundred really? Why shouldn't she go and see how
many doors she could count? It would be something to do on this morning
when she could not go out.  She had never been taught to ask permission
to do things, and she knew nothing at all about authority, so she would
not have thought it necessary to ask Mrs. Medlock if she might walk
about the house, even if she had seen her.

She opened the door of the room and went into the corridor, and then
she began her wanderings.  It was a long corridor and it branched into
other corridors and it led her up short flights of steps which mounted
to others again.  There were doors and doors, and there were pictures
on the walls.  Sometimes they were pictures of dark, curious
landscapes, but oftenest they were portraits of men and women in queer,
grand costumes made of satin and velvet.  She found herself in one long
gallery whose walls were covered with these portraits.  She had never
thought there could be so many in any house.  She walked slowly down
this place and stared at the faces which also seemed to stare at her.
She felt as if they were wondering what a little girl from India was
doing in their house.  Some were pictures of children -- little girls in
thick satin frocks which reached to their feet and stood out about
them, and boys with puffed sleeves and lace collars and long hair, or
with big ruffs around their necks.  She always stopped to look at the
children, and wonder what their names were, and where they had gone,
and why they wore such odd clothes.  There was a stiff, plain little
girl rather like herself.  She wore a green brocade dress and held a
green parrot on her finger.  Her eyes had a sharp, curious look
said Mary aloud to her
Surely no other little girl ever spent such a queer morning.  It seemed
as if there was no one in all the huge rambling house but her own small
self, wandering about upstairs and down, through narrow passages and
wide ones, where it seemed to her that no one but herself had ever
walked.  Since so many rooms had been built, people must have lived in
them, but it all seemed so empty that she could not quite believe it
true.

It was not until she climbed to the second floor that she thought of
turning the handle of a door.  All the doors were shut, as Mrs. Medlock
had said they were, but at last she put her hand on the handle of one
of them and turned it.  She was almost frightened for a moment when she
felt that it turned without difficulty and that when she pushed upon
the door itself it slowly and heavily opened.  It was a massive door
and opened into a big bedroom.  There were embroidered hangings on the
wall, and inlaid furniture such as she had seen in India stood about
the room.  A broad window with leaded panes looked out upon the moor;
and over the mantel was another portrait of the stiff, plain little
girl who seemed to stare at her more curiously than ever
said Mary
After that she opened more doors and more.  She saw so many rooms that
she became quite tired and began to think that there must be a hundred,
though she had not counted them.  In all of them there were old
pictures or old tapestries with strange scenes worked on them.  There
were curious pieces of furniture and curious ornaments in nearly all of
them.

In one room, which looked like a lady's sitting-room, the hangings were
all embroidered velvet, and in a cabinet were about a hundred little
elephants made of ivory.  They were of different sizes, and some had
their mahouts or palanquins on their backs.  Some were much bigger than
the others and some were so tiny that they seemed only babies.  Mary
had seen carved ivory in India and she knew all about elephants.  She
opened the door of the cabinet and stood on a footstool and played with
these for quite a long time.  When she got tired she set the elephants
in order and shut the door of the cabinet.

In all her wanderings through the long corridors and the empty rooms,
she had seen nothing alive; but in this room she saw something.  Just
after she had closed the cabinet door she heard a tiny rustling sound.
It made her jump and look around at the sofa by the fireplace, from
which it seemed to come.  In the corner of the sofa there was a
cushion, and in the velvet which covered it there was a hole, and out
of the hole peeped a tiny head with a pair of frightened eyes in it.

Mary crept softly across the room to look.  The bright eyes belonged to
a little gray mouse, and the mouse had eaten a hole into the cushion
and made a comfortable nest there.  Six baby mice were cuddled up
asleep near her.  If there was no one else alive in the hundred rooms
there were seven mice who did not look lonely at all
said Mary.

She had wandered about long enough to feel too tired to wander any
farther, and she turned back.  Two or three times she lost her way by
turning down the wrong corridor and was obliged to ramble up and down
until she found the right one; but at last she reached her own floor
again, though she was some distance from her own room and did not know
exactly where she was
she said, standing
still at what seemed the end of a short passage with tapestry on the
wall
It was while she was standing here and just after she had said this
that the stillness was broken by a sound.  It was another cry, but not
quite like the one she had heard last night; it was only a short one, a
fretful childish whine muffled by passing through walls
said Mary, her heart beating rather faster
She put her hand accidentally upon the tapestry near her, and then
sprang back, feeling quite startled.  The tapestry was the covering of
a door which fell open and showed her that there was another part of
the corridor behind it, and Mrs. Medlock was coming up it with her
bunch of keys in her hand and a very cross look on her face
she said, and she took Mary by the arm and
pulled her away
explained Mary
She quite hated Mrs.
Medlock at the moment, but she hated her more the next
said the housekeeper
And she took her by the arm and half pushed, half pulled her up one
passage and down another until she pushed her in at the door of her own
room
she said
She went out of the room and slammed the door after her, and Mary went
and sat on the hearth-rug, pale with rage.  She did not cry, but ground
her teeth
she said to herself.

She had heard it twice now, and sometime she would find out.  She had
found out a great deal this morning.  She felt as if she had been on a
long journey, and at any rate she had had something to amuse her all
the time, and she had played with the ivory elephants and had seen the
gray mouse and its babies in their nest in the velvet cushion
Two days after this, when Mary opened her eyes she sat upright in bed
immediately, and called to Martha
The rainstorm had ended and the gray mist and clouds had been swept
away in the night by the wind.  The wind itself had ceased and a
brilliant, deep blue sky arched high over the moorland.  Never, never
had Mary dreamed of a sky so blue.  In India skies were hot and
blazing; this was of a deep cool blue which almost seemed to sparkle
like the waters of some lovely bottomless lake, and here and there,
high, high in the arched blueness floated small clouds of snow-white
fleece.  The far-reaching world of the moor itself looked softly blue
instead of gloomy purple-black or awful dreary gray
said Martha with a cheerful grin
Mary
said
said Martha, sitting up on her heels among her black lead
brushes
asked Mary seriously.  In India the natives
spoke different dialects which only a few people understood, so she was
not surprised when Martha used words she did not know.

Martha laughed as she had done the first morning
she said
slowly and carefully
asked Mary wistfully, looking through
her window at the far-off blue.  It was so new and big and wonderful
and such a heavenly color
answered Martha
Martha stared at her a moment curiously before she took up her
polishing brush and began to rub the grate again.  She was thinking
that the small plain face did not look quite as sour at this moment as
it had done the first morning she saw it.  It looked just a trifle like
little Susan Ann's when she wanted something very much
she said
said Mary
agreed Martha, polishing away
said Mary
replied Martha.

She sat up on her heels again and rubbed the end of her nose with the
back of her hand as if puzzled for a moment, but she ended quite
positively
added Mary
said Martha stoutly
staring at her reflectively
said Mary in her stiff, cold little way
Martha looked reflective again
she inquired, really quite as if she were
curious to know.

Mary hesitated a moment and thought it over
she answered
Martha grinned a little as if at some homely recollection
she said
She went away in high spirits as soon as she had given Mary her
breakfast.  She was going to walk five miles across the moor to the
cottage, and she was going to help her mother with the washing and do
the week's baking and enjoy herself thoroughly.

Mary felt lonelier than ever when she knew she was no longer in the
house.  She went out into the garden as quickly as possible, and the
first thing she did was to run round and round the fountain flower
garden ten times.  She counted the times carefully and when she had
finished she felt in better spirits.  The sunshine made the whole place
look different.  The high, deep, blue sky arched over Misselthwaite as
well as over the moor, and she kept lifting her face and looking up
into it, trying to imagine what it would be like to lie down on one of
the little snow-white clouds and float about.  She went into the first
kitchen-garden and found Ben Weatherstaff working there with two other
gardeners.  The change in the weather seemed to have done him good.  He
spoke to her of his own accord
he said
Mary sniffed and thought she could
she said
he answered, digging away
asked Mary
said Mary
said Weatherstaff
answered Mary.

Very soon she heard the soft rustling flight of wings again and she
knew at once that the robin had come again.  He was very pert and
lively, and hopped about so close to her feet, and put his head on one
side and looked at her so slyly that she asked Ben Weatherstaff a
question
she said
said Weatherstaff indignantly
Mary inquired
grunted Weatherstaff, becoming surly again
She could not help asking,
because she wanted so much to know
said Ben Weatherstaff, hunching his shoulders toward the
robin
Ten years was a long time, Mary thought.  She had been born ten years
ago.

She walked away, slowly thinking.  She had begun to like the garden
just as she had begun to like the robin and Dickon and Martha's mother.
She was beginning to like Martha, too.  That seemed a good many people
to like -- when you were not used to liking.  She thought of the robin as
one of the people.  She went to her walk outside the long, ivy-covered
wall over which she could see the tree-tops; and the second time she
walked up and down the most interesting and exciting thing happened to
her, and it was all through Ben Weatherstaff's robin.

She heard a chirp and a twitter, and when she looked at the bare
flower-bed at her left side there he was hopping about and pretending
to peck things out of the earth to persuade her that he had not
followed her.  But she knew he had followed her and the surprise so
filled her with delight that she almost trembled a little
she cried out
She chirped, and talked, and coaxed and he hopped, and flirted his tail
and twittered.  It was as if he were talking.  His red waistcoat was
like satin and he puffed his tiny breast out and was so fine and so
grand and so pretty that it was really as if he were showing her how
important and like a human person a robin could be.  Mistress Mary
forgot that she had ever been contrary in her life when he allowed her
to draw closer and closer to him, and bend down and talk and try to
make something like robin sounds.

Oh! to think that he should actually let her come as near to him as
that! He knew nothing in the world would make her put out her hand
toward him or startle him in the least tiniest way.  He knew it because
he was a real person -- only nicer than any other person in the world.
She was so happy that she scarcely dared to breathe.

The flower-bed was not quite bare.  It was bare of flowers because the
perennial plants had been cut down for their winter rest, but there
were tall shrubs and low ones which grew together at the back of the
bed, and as the robin hopped about under them she saw him hop over a
small pile of freshly turned up earth.  He stopped on it to look for a
worm.  The earth had been turned up because a dog had been trying to
dig up a mole and he had scratched quite a deep hole.

Mary looked at it, not really knowing why the hole was there, and as
she looked she saw something almost buried in the newly-turned soil.
It was something like a ring of rusty iron or brass and when the robin
flew up into a tree nearby she put out her hand and picked the ring up.
It was more than a ring, however; it was an old key which looked as if
it had been buried a long time.

Mistress Mary stood up and looked at it with an almost frightened face
as it hung from her finger
she said in a whisper
She looked at the key quite a long time.  She turned it over and over,
and thought about it.  As I have said before, she was not a child who
had been trained to ask permission or consult her elders about things.
All she thought about the key was that if it was the key to the closed
garden, and she could find out where the door was, she could perhaps
open it and see what was inside the walls, and what had happened to the
old rose-trees. It was because it had been shut up so long that she
wanted to see it.  It seemed as if it must be different from other
places and that something strange must have happened to it during ten
years.  Besides that, if she liked it she could go into it every day
and shut the door behind her, and she could make up some play of her
own and play it quite alone, because nobody would ever know where she
was, but would think the door was still locked and the key buried in
the earth.  The thought of that pleased her very much.

Living as it were, all by herself in a house with a hundred
mysteriously closed rooms and having nothing whatever to do to amuse
herself, had set her inactive brain to working and was actually
awakening her imagination.  There is no doubt that the fresh, strong,
pure air from the moor had a great deal to do with it.  Just as it had
given her an appetite, and fighting with the wind had stirred her
blood, so the same things had stirred her mind.  In India she had
always been too hot and languid and weak to care much about anything,
but in this place she was beginning to care and to want to do new
things.  Already she felt less
though she did not know why.

She put the key in her pocket and walked up and down her walk.  No one
but herself ever seemed to come there, so she could walk slowly and
look at the wall, or, rather, at the ivy growing on it.  The ivy was
the baffling thing.  Howsoever carefully she looked she could see
nothing but thickly growing, glossy, dark green leaves.  She was very
much disappointed.  Something of her contrariness came back to her as
she paced the walk and looked over it at the tree-tops inside.  It
seemed so silly, she said to herself, to be near it and not be able to
get in.  She took the key in her pocket when she went back to the
house, and she made up her mind that she would always carry it with her
when she went out, so that if she ever should find the hidden door she
would be ready.

Mrs. Medlock had allowed Martha to sleep all night at the cottage, but
she was back at her work in the morning with cheeks redder than ever
and in the best of spirits
she said
She was full of stories of the delights of her day out.  Her mother had
been glad to see her and they had got the baking and washing all out of
the way.  She had even made each of the children a doughcake with a bit
of brown sugar in it
In the evening they had all sat round the fire, and Martha and her
mother had sewed patches on torn clothes and mended stockings and
Martha had told them about the little girl who had come from India and
who had been waited on all her life by what Martha called "blacks"
until she didn't know how to put on her own stockings
said Martha
Mary reflected a little
she said
cried delighted Martha
Mary said slowly, as she
thought the matter over
answered Martha
said Mary sharply
Mary gave her a long, steady look
she said
Presently Martha went out of the room and came back with something held
in her hands under her apron
she said, with a cheerful grin
exclaimed Mistress Mary.  How could a cottage full of
fourteen hungry people give any one a present
Martha explained
She brought it out from under her apron and exhibited it quite proudly.
It was a strong, slender rope with a striped red and blue handle at
each end, but Mary Lennox had never seen a skipping-rope before.  She
gazed at it with a mystified expression
she asked curiously
cried out Martha
And she ran into the middle of the room and, taking a handle in each
hand, began to skip, and skip, and skip, while Mary turned in her chair
to stare at her, and the queer faces in the old portraits seemed to
stare at her, too, and wonder what on earth this common little cottager
had the impudence to be doing under their very noses.  But Martha did
not even see them.  The interest and curiosity in Mistress Mary's face
delighted her, and she went on skipping and counted as she skipped
until she had reached a hundred
she said when she stopped
Mary got up from her chair beginning to feel excited herself
she said
urged Martha, handing her the skipping-rope
It was plain that there was not a great deal of strength in Mistress
Mary's arms and legs when she first began to skip.  She was not very
clever at it, but she liked it so much that she did not want to stop
said Martha
Mary put on her coat and hat and took her skipping-rope over her arm.
She opened the door to go out, and then suddenly thought of something
and turned back rather slowly
she said
She said it stiffly because she was not used to
thanking people or noticing that they did things for her
she said, and held out her hand because she did not know what else to
do.

Martha gave her hand a clumsy little shake, as if she was not
accustomed to this sort of thing either.  Then she laughed
she said
Mary looked stiffer than ever
Martha laughed again
she answered
Mistress Mary felt a little awkward as she went out of the room.
Yorkshire people seemed strange, and Martha was always rather a puzzle
to her.  At first she had disliked her very much, but now she did not.
The skipping-rope was a wonderful thing.  She counted and skipped, and
skipped and counted, until her cheeks were quite red, and she was more
interested than she had ever been since she was born.  The sun was
shining and a little wind was blowing -- not a rough wind, but one which
came in delightful little gusts and brought a fresh scent of newly
turned earth with it.  She skipped round the fountain garden, and up
one walk and down another.  She skipped at last into the kitchen-garden
and saw Ben Weatherstaff digging and talking to his robin, which was
hopping about him.  She skipped down the walk toward him and he lifted
his head and looked at her with a curious expression.  She had wondered
if he would notice her.  She wanted him to see her skip
he exclaimed
Mary said
said Ben
jerking his head toward the robin
shaking his head at the
bird
Mary skipped round all the gardens and round the orchard, resting every
few minutes.  At length she went to her own special walk and made up
her mind to try if she could skip the whole length of it.  It was a
good long skip and she began slowly, but before she had gone half-way
down the path she was so hot and breathless that she was obliged to
stop.  She did not mind much, because she had already counted up to
thirty.  She stopped with a little laugh of pleasure, and there, lo and
behold, was the robin swaying on a long branch of ivy.  He had followed
her and he greeted her with a chirp.  As Mary had skipped toward him
she felt something heavy in her pocket strike against her at each jump,
and when she saw the robin she laughed again
she said
The robin flew from his swinging spray of ivy on to the top of the wall
and he opened his beak and sang a loud, lovely trill, merely to show
off.  Nothing in the world is quite as adorably lovely as a robin when
he shows off -- and they are nearly always doing it.

Mary Lennox had heard a great deal about Magic in her Ayah's stories,
and she always said that what happened almost at that moment was Magic.

One of the nice little gusts of wind rushed down the walk, and it was a
stronger one than the rest.  It was strong enough to wave the branches
of the trees, and it was more than strong enough to sway the trailing
sprays of untrimmed ivy hanging from the wall.  Mary had stepped close
to the robin, and suddenly the gust of wind swung aside some loose ivy
trails, and more suddenly still she jumped toward it and caught it in
her hand.  This she did because she had seen something under it -- a
round knob which had been covered by the leaves hanging over it.  It
was the knob of a door.

She put her hands under the leaves and began to pull and push them
aside.  Thick as the ivy hung, it nearly all was a loose and swinging
curtain, though some had crept over wood and iron.  Mary's heart began
to thump and her hands to shake a little in her delight and excitement.
The robin kept singing and twittering away and tilting his head on one
side, as if he were as excited as she was.  What was this under her
hands which was square and made of iron and which her fingers found a
hole in?

It was the lock of the door which had been closed ten years and she put
her hand in her pocket, drew out the key and found it fitted the
keyhole.  She put the key in and turned it.  It took two hands to do
it, but it did turn.

And then she took a long breath and looked behind her up the long walk
to see if any one was coming.  No one was coming.  No one ever did
come, it seemed, and she took another long breath, because she could
not help it, and she held back the swinging curtain of ivy and pushed
back the door which opened slowly -- slowly.

Then she slipped through it, and shut it behind her, and stood with her
back against it, looking about her and breathing quite fast with
excitement, and wonder, and delight.

She was standing inside the secret garden
It was the sweetest, most mysterious-looking place any one could
imagine.  The high walls which shut it in were covered with the
leafless stems of climbing roses which were so thick that they were
matted together.  Mary Lennox knew they were roses because she had seen
a great many roses in India.  All the ground was covered with grass of
a wintry brown and out of it grew clumps of bushes which were surely
rosebushes if they were alive.  There were numbers of standard roses
which had so spread their branches that they were like little trees.
There were other trees in the garden, and one of the things which made
the place look strangest and loveliest was that climbing roses had run
all over them and swung down long tendrils which made light swaying
curtains, and here and there they had caught at each other or at a
far-reaching branch and had crept from one tree to another and made
lovely bridges of themselves.  There were neither leaves nor roses on
them now and Mary did not know whether they were dead or alive, but
their thin gray or brown branches and sprays looked like a sort of hazy
mantle spreading over everything, walls, and trees, and even brown
grass, where they had fallen from their fastenings and run along the
ground.  It was this hazy tangle from tree to tree which made it all
look so mysterious.  Mary had thought it must be different from other
gardens which had not been left all by themselves so long; and indeed
it was different from any other place she had ever seen in her life
she whispered
Then she waited a moment and listened at the stillness.  The robin, who
had flown to his treetop, was still as all the rest.  He did not even
flutter his wings; he sat without stirring, and looked at Mary
she whispered again
She moved away from the door, stepping as softly as if she were afraid
of awakening some one.  She was glad that there was grass under her
feet and that her steps made no sounds.  She walked under one of the
fairy-like gray arches between the trees and looked up at the sprays
and tendrils which formed them
she said
If she had been Ben Weatherstaff she could have told whether the wood
was alive by looking at it, but she could only see that there were only
gray or brown sprays and branches and none showed any signs of even a
tiny leaf-bud anywhere.

But she was inside the wonderful garden and she could come through the
door under the ivy any time and she felt as if she had found a world
all her own.

The sun was shining inside the four walls and the high arch of blue sky
over this particular piece of Misselthwaite seemed even more brilliant
and soft than it was over the moor.  The robin flew down from his
tree-top and hopped about or flew after her from one bush to another.
He chirped a good deal and had a very busy air, as if he were showing
her things.  Everything was strange and silent and she seemed to be
hundreds of miles away from any one, but somehow she did not feel
lonely at all.  All that troubled her was her wish that she knew
whether all the roses were dead, or if perhaps some of them had lived
and might put out leaves and buds as the weather got warmer.  She did
not want it to be a quite dead garden.  If it were a quite alive
garden, how wonderful it would be, and what thousands of roses would
grow on every side!

Her skipping-rope had hung over her arm when she came in and after she
had walked about for a while she thought she would skip round the whole
garden, stopping when she wanted to look at things.  There seemed to
have been grass paths here and there, and in one or two corners there
were alcoves of evergreen with stone seats or tall moss-covered flower
urns in them.

As she came near the second of these alcoves she stopped skipping.
There had once been a flowerbed in it, and she thought she saw
something sticking out of the black earth -- some sharp little pale green
points.  She remembered what Ben Weatherstaff had said and she knelt
down to look at them
she whispered.

She bent very close to them and sniffed the fresh scent of the damp
earth.  She liked it very much
she
said
She did not skip, but walked.  She went slowly and kept her eyes on the
ground.  She looked in the old border beds and among the grass, and
after she had gone round, trying to miss nothing, she had found ever so
many more sharp, pale green points, and she had become quite excited
again
she cried out softly to herself
She did not know anything about gardening, but the grass seemed so
thick in some of the places where the green points were pushing their
way through that she thought they did not seem to have room enough to
grow.  She searched about until she found a rather sharp piece of wood
and knelt down and dug and weeded out the weeds and grass until she
made nice little clear places around them
she said, after she had
finished with the first ones
She went from place to place, and dug and weeded, and enjoyed herself
so immensely that she was led on from bed to bed and into the grass
under the trees.  The exercise made her so warm that she first threw
her coat off, and then her hat, and without knowing it she was smiling
down on to the grass and the pale green points all the time.

The robin was tremendously busy.  He was very much pleased to see
gardening begun on his own estate.  He had often wondered at Ben
Weatherstaff.  Where gardening is done all sorts of delightful things
to eat are turned up with the soil.  Now here was this new kind of
creature who was not half Ben's size and yet had had the sense to come
into his garden and begin at once.

Mistress Mary worked in her garden until it was time to go to her
midday dinner.  In fact, she was rather late in remembering, and when
she put on her coat and hat, and picked up her skipping-rope, she could
not believe that she had been working two or three hours.  She had been
actually happy all the time; and dozens and dozens of the tiny, pale
green points were to be seen in cleared places, looking twice as
cheerful as they had looked before when the grass and weeds had been
smothering them
she said, looking all round at her
new kingdom, and speaking to the trees and the rose-bushes as if they
heard her.

Then she ran lightly across the grass, pushed open the slow old door
and slipped through it under the ivy.  She had such red cheeks and such
bright eyes and ate such a dinner that Martha was delighted
she said
In the course of her digging with her pointed stick Mistress Mary had
found herself digging up a sort of white root rather like an onion.
She had put it back in its place and patted the earth carefully down on
it and just now she wondered if Martha could tell her what it was
she said
answered Martha
asked Mary, a new idea taking
possession of her
inquired Mary anxiously
said Martha
said Mary
She had finished her dinner and gone to her favorite seat on the
hearth-rug
she said
asked Martha, laughing
Mary looked at the fire and pondered a little.  She must be careful if
she meant to keep her secret kingdom.  She wasn't doing any harm, but
if Mr. Craven found out about the open door he would be fearfully angry
and get a new key and lock it up forevermore.  She really could not
bear that
she said slowly, as if she were
turning matters over in her mind
Martha's face quite lighted up
she exclaimed
said Mary
said Martha
Mary asked
was Martha's reflective answer
said Mary
exclaimed Martha
said Martha
putting her hands on her hips
said Mary eagerly
suddenly
Mary answered.

Martha shook her head
Mary cried
said Martha
She ran
out of the room, and Mary stood by the fire and twisted her thin little
hands together with sheer pleasure
she whispered
She did not go out again that afternoon because when Martha returned
with her pen and ink and paper she was obliged to clear the table and
carry the plates and dishes downstairs and when she got into the
kitchen Mrs. Medlock was there and told her to do something, so Mary
waited for what seemed to her a long time before she came back.  Then
it was a serious piece of work to write to Dickon.  Mary had been
taught very little because her governesses had disliked her too much to
stay with her.  She could not spell particularly well but she found
that she could print letters when she tried.  This was the letter
Martha dictated to her: "My Dear Dickon:

This comes hoping to find you well as it leaves me at present.  Miss
Mary has plenty of money and will you go to Thwaite and buy her some
flower seeds and a set of garden tools to make a flower-bed. Pick the
prettiest ones and easy to grow because she has never done it before
and lived in India which is different.  Give my love to mother and
every one of you.  Miss Mary is going to tell me a lot more so that on
my next day out you can hear about elephants and camels and gentlemen
going hunting lions and tigers
said Martha
exclaimed Mary
asked Martha suddenly, for Mary had looked
so pleased
Martha gave a little start, as if she remembered something
she broke out
Mary began
It seemed as if all the interesting things were happening in one day.
To think of going over the moor in the daylight and when the sky was
blue! To think of going into the cottage which held twelve children
she asked, quite
anxiously
said Mary,
thinking it over and liking the idea very much
Her work in the garden and the excitement of the afternoon ended by
making her feel quiet and thoughtful.  Martha stayed with her until
tea-time, but they sat in comfortable quiet and talked very little.
But just before Martha went downstairs for the tea-tray, Mary asked a
question
she said
Martha certainly started slightly
she said
said Martha restlessly
said Mary
said Martha, and she almost ran
out of the room
said Mary drowsily,
as she dropped her head on the cushioned seat of the armchair near her.
Fresh air, and digging, and skipping-rope had made her feel so
comfortably tired that she fell asleep
The sun shone down for nearly a week on the secret garden.  The Secret
Garden was what Mary called it when she was thinking of it.  She liked
the name, and she liked still more the feeling that when its beautiful
old walls shut her in no one knew where she was.  It seemed almost like
being shut out of the world in some fairy place.  The few books she had
read and liked had been fairy-story books, and she had read of secret
gardens in some of the stories.  Sometimes people went to sleep in them
for a hundred years, which she had thought must be rather stupid.  She
had no intention of going to sleep, and, in fact, she was becoming
wider awake every day which passed at Misselthwaite.  She was beginning
to like to be out of doors; she no longer hated the wind, but enjoyed
it.  She could run faster, and longer, and she could skip up to a
hundred.  The bulbs in the secret garden must have been much
astonished.  Such nice clear places were made round them that they had
all the breathing space they wanted, and really, if Mistress Mary had
known it, they began to cheer up under the dark earth and work
tremendously.  The sun could get at them and warm them, and when the
rain came down it could reach them at once, so they began to feel very
much alive.

Mary was an odd, determined little person, and now she had something
interesting to be determined about, she was very much absorbed, indeed.
She worked and dug and pulled up weeds steadily, only becoming more
pleased with her work every hour instead of tiring of it.  It seemed to
her like a fascinating sort of play.  She found many more of the
sprouting pale green points than she had ever hoped to find.  They
seemed to be starting up everywhere and each day she was sure she found
tiny new ones, some so tiny that they barely peeped above the earth.
There were so many that she remembered what Martha had said about the
and about bulbs spreading and making new
ones.  These had been left to themselves for ten years and perhaps they
had spread, like the snowdrops, into thousands.  She wondered how long
it would be before they showed that they were flowers.  Sometimes she
stopped digging to look at the garden and try to imagine what it would
be like when it was covered with thousands of lovely things in bloom.
During that week of sunshine, she became more intimate with Ben
Weatherstaff.  She surprised him several times by seeming to start up
beside him as if she sprang out of the earth.  The truth was that she
was afraid that he would pick up his tools and go away if he saw her
coming, so she always walked toward him as silently as possible.  But,
in fact, he did not object to her as strongly as he had at first.
Perhaps he was secretly rather flattered by her evident desire for his
elderly company.  Then, also, she was more civil than she had been.  He
did not know that when she first saw him she spoke to him as she would
have spoken to a native, and had not known that a cross, sturdy old
Yorkshire man was not accustomed to salaam to his masters, and be
merely commanded by them to do things
he said to her one morning when he lifted his
head and saw her standing by him
said Mary
snapped Ben Weatherstaff
He very seldom talked much and sometimes did not even answer Mary's
questions except by a grunt, but this morning he said more than usual.
He stood up and rested one hobnailed boot on the top of his spade while
he looked her over
he jerked out
she answered
he said
Mary was not vain and as she had never thought much of her looks she
was not greatly disturbed
she said
There, indeed, was the robin, and she thought he looked nicer than
ever.  His red waistcoat was as glossy as satin and he flirted his
wings and tail and tilted his head and hopped about with all sorts of
lively graces.  He seemed determined to make Ben Weatherstaff admire
him.  But Ben was sarcastic
he said
exclaimed Mary.

The robin was evidently in a fascinating, bold mood.  He hopped closer
and closer and looked at Ben Weatherstaff more and more engagingly.  He
flew on to the nearest currant bush and tilted his head and sang a
little song right at him
said Ben, wrinkling his
face up in such a way that Mary felt sure he was trying not to look
pleased
The robin spread his wings -- Mary could scarcely believe her eyes.  He
flew right up to the handle of Ben Weatherstaff's spade and alighted on
the top of it.  Then the old man's face wrinkled itself slowly into a
new expression.  He stood still as if he were afraid to breathe -- as if
he would not have stirred for the world, lest his robin should start
away.  He spoke quite in a whisper
he said as softly as if he were saying something
quite different
And he stood without stirring -- almost without drawing his breath -- until
the robin gave another flirt to his wings and flew away.  Then he stood
looking at the handle of the spade as if there might be Magic in it,
and then he began to dig again and said nothing for several minutes.

But because he kept breaking into a slow grin now and then, Mary was
not afraid to talk to him
she asked
said Mary
persisted Mary
Mary's face lighted up
she said.

Ben Weatherstaff rooted up a weed and threw it aside before he answered
He dragged out another weed and scowled at it
asked Mary, much interested
he answered, and drove his spade deep into the soil
Mary asked again, more interested than
ever
Mary was becoming quite excited
she ventured
Ben
Weatherstaff admitted reluctantly
inquired Mary
cried Mary, forgetting to be careful
He
stopped suddenly and looked curiously at her eager face
he demanded.

Mistress Mary felt her face grow red.  She was almost afraid to answer
she
stammered
said Ben Weatherstaff slowly, as he watched her
He said it in such an odd way that Mary wondered if he was actually a
little sorry for her.  She had never felt sorry for herself; she had
only felt tired and cross, because she disliked people and things so
much.  But now the world seemed to be changing and getting nicer.  If
no one found out about the secret garden, she should enjoy herself
always.

She stayed with him for ten or fifteen minutes longer and asked him as
many questions as she dared.  He answered every one of them in his
queer grunting way and he did not seem really cross and did not pick up
his spade and leave her.  He said something about roses just as she was
going away and it reminded her of the ones he had said he had been fond
of
she asked
He said it in his grumbling voice, and then quite suddenly he seemed to
get angry with her, though she did not see why he should
he said sharply
And he said it so crossly that she knew there was not the least use in
staying another minute.  She went skipping slowly down the outside
walk, thinking him over and saying to herself that, queer as it was,
here was another person whom she liked in spite of his crossness.  She
liked old Ben Weatherstaff.  Yes, she did like him.  She always wanted
to try to make him talk to her.  Also she began to believe that he knew
everything in the world about flowers.

There was a laurel-hedged walk which curved round the secret garden and
ended at a gate which opened into a wood, in the park.  She thought she
would slip round this walk and look into the wood and see if there were
any rabbits hopping about.  She enjoyed the skipping very much and when
she reached the little gate she opened it and went through because she
heard a low, peculiar whistling sound and wanted to find out what it
was.

It was a very strange thing indeed.  She quite caught her breath as she
stopped to look at it.  A boy was sitting under a tree, with his back
against it, playing on a rough wooden pipe.  He was a funny looking boy
about twelve.  He looked very clean and his nose turned up and his
cheeks were as red as poppies and never had Mistress Mary seen such
round and such blue eyes in any boy's face.  And on the trunk of the
tree he leaned against, a brown squirrel was clinging and watching him,
and from behind a bush nearby a cock pheasant was delicately stretching
his neck to peep out, and quite near him were two rabbits sitting up
and sniffing with tremulous noses -- and actually it appeared as if they
were all drawing near to watch him and listen to the strange low little
call his pipe seemed to make.

When he saw Mary he held up his hand and spoke to her in a voice almost
as low as and rather like his piping
he said
Mary remained
motionless.  He stopped playing his pipe and began to rise from the
ground.  He moved so slowly that it scarcely seemed as though he were
moving at all, but at last he stood on his feet and then the squirrel
scampered back up into the branches of his tree, the pheasant withdrew
his head and the rabbits dropped on all fours and began to hop away,
though not at all as if they were frightened
the boy said
Then Mary realized that somehow she had known at first that he was
Dickon.  Who else could have been charming rabbits and pheasants as the
natives charm snakes in India? He had a wide, red, curving mouth and
his smile spread all over his face
he explained
He did not speak to her as if they had never seen each other before but
as if he knew her quite well.  Mary knew nothing about boys and she
spoke to him a little stiffly because she felt rather shy
she asked.

He nodded his curly, rust-colored head
He stooped to pick up something which had been lying on the ground
beside him when he piped
Mary said.

She wished she could talk as he did.  His speech was so quick and easy.
It sounded as if he liked her and was not the least afraid she would
not like him, though he was only a common moor boy, in patched clothes
and with a funny face and a rough, rusty-red head.  As she came closer
to him she noticed that there was a clean fresh scent of heather and
grass and leaves about him, almost as if he were made of them.  She
liked it very much and when she looked into his funny face with the red
cheeks and round blue eyes she forgot that she had felt shy
she said.

They sat down and he took a clumsy little brown paper package out of
his coat pocket.  He untied the string and inside there were ever so
many neater and smaller packages with a picture of a flower on each one
he said
He stopped and turned his head
quickly, his poppy-cheeked face lighting up
he said.

The chirp came from a thick holly bush, bright with scarlet berries,
and Mary thought she knew whose it was
she asked
said Dickon, as if it was the most natural thing in the world
answered
Mary
said Dickon in his low voice again
He moved quite close to the bush with the slow movement Mary had
noticed before, and then he made a sound almost like the robin's own
twitter.  The robin listened a few seconds, intently, and then answered
quite as if he were replying to a question
chuckled Dickon
cried Mary eagerly.  She did so want to know
answered Dickon
And it really seemed as if it must be true.  He so sidled and twittered
and tilted as he hopped on his bush
said Mary.

Dickon's grin spread until he seemed all wide, red, curving mouth, and
he rubbed his rough head
he said
He laughed and came back to the log and began to talk about the flower
seeds again.  He told her what they looked like when they were flowers;
he told her how to plant them, and watch them, and feed and water them
he said suddenly, turning round to look at her
Mary's thin hands clutched each other as they lay on her lap.  She did
not know what to say, so for a whole minute she said nothing.  She had
never thought of this.  She felt miserable.  And she felt as if she
went red and then pale
Dickon said.

It was true that she had turned red and then pale.  Dickon saw her do
it, and as she still said nothing, he began to be puzzled
he asked
She held her hands tighter and turned her eyes toward him
she said slowly
She said
the last sentence quite fiercely.

Dickon looked more puzzled than ever and even rubbed his hand over his
rough head again, but he answered quite good-humoredly
he said
Mistress Mary did not mean to put out her hand and clutch his sleeve
but she did it
she said very fast
She began to feel hot and as contrary as she had ever felt in her life
she ended passionately, and she threw her arms over her
face and burst out crying-poor little Mistress Mary.

Dickon's curious blue eyes grew rounder and rounder
he
said, drawing his exclamation out slowly, and the way he did it meant
both wonder and sympathy
said Mary
asked Dickon in a
dropped voice.

Mistress Mary got up from the log at once.  She knew she felt contrary
again, and obstinate, and she did not care at all.  She was imperious
and Indian, and at the same time hot and sorrowful
she said.

She led him round the laurel path and to the walk where the ivy grew so
thickly.  Dickon followed her with a queer, almost pitying, look on his
face.  He felt as if he were being led to look at some strange bird's
nest and must move softly.  When she stepped to the wall and lifted the
hanging ivy he started.  There was a door and Mary pushed it slowly
open and they passed in together, and then Mary stood and waved her
hand round defiantly
she said
Dickon looked round and round about it, and round and round again
he almost whispered
For two or three minutes he stood looking round him, while Mary watched
him, and then he began to walk about softly, even more lightly than
Mary had walked the first time she had found herself inside the four
walls.  His eyes seemed to be taking in everything -- the gray trees with
the gray creepers climbing over them and hanging from their branches,
the tangle on the walls and among the grass, the evergreen alcoves with
the stone seats and tall flower urns standing in them
he said at last, in a whisper
asked Mary.

She had spoken aloud and he made a sign to her
he said
said Mary, feeling frightened and putting her hand
quickly against her mouth
she asked
again when she had recovered herself.  Dickon nodded
he answered
He stopped and looked round at the lovely gray tangle about him, and
his round eyes looked queerly happy
he said
Mistress Mary put her hand on his arm again without knowing it
she whispered
he answered
He stepped over to the nearest tree -- an old, old one with gray lichen
all over its bark, but upholding a curtain of tangled sprays and
branches.  He took a thick knife out of his Pocket and opened one of
its blades
he said
and he touched a shoot which looked brownish green instead
of hard, dry gray.  Mary touched it herself in an eager, reverent way
she said
Dickon curved his wide smiling mouth
he said; and Mary remembered that Martha
had told her that "wick" meant "alive" or
she cried out in her whisper
She quite panted with eagerness, and Dickon was as eager as she was.
They went from tree to tree and from bush to bush.  Dickon carried his
knife in his hand and showed her things which she thought wonderful
he said
and he
pulled down a thick gray, dry-looking branch
He knelt and with his knife cut the lifeless-looking branch through,
not far above the earth
he said exultantly
Mary was down on her knees before he spoke, gazing with all her might
he
explained
he stopped and lifted his face
to look up at the climbing and hanging sprays above him
They went from bush to bush and from tree to tree.  He was very strong
and clever with his knife and knew how to cut the dry and dead wood
away, and could tell when an unpromising bough or twig had still green
life in it.  In the course of half an hour Mary thought she could tell
too, and when he cut through a lifeless-looking branch she would cry
out joyfully under her breath when she caught sight of the least shade
of moist green.  The spade, and hoe, and fork were very useful.  He
showed her how to use the fork while he dug about roots with the spade
and stirred the earth and let the air in.

They were working industriously round one of the biggest standard roses
when he caught sight of something which made him utter an exclamation
of surprise
he cried, pointing to the grass a few feet away
It was one of Mary's own little clearings round the pale green points
said Mary
he exclaimed
she answered
Dickon went and knelt down by them, smiling his wide smile
he said
turning to another patch
He ran from one clearing to another
he said, looking
her over
said Mary
he said, nodding his head wisely
inquired Mary, gazing at him wonderingly.
She had never seen such a funny boy, or such a nice one
he said, grinning
He was working all the time he was talking and Mary was following him
and helping him with her fork or the trowel
he said once, looking about quite
exultantly
Mary begged
he answered
stoutly
said Mary
she ended helplessly.  What could you
do for a boy like that
said Dickon, with his happy grin
He began to walk about, looking up in the trees and at the walls and
bushes with a thoughtful expression
he said
said Mary anxiously
Dickon stood rubbing his rusty-red head with a rather puzzled look
he said
said Mary
he answered
said Mary.

He was examining a branch of a standard rose and he shook his head
he murmured
Mistress Mary always felt that however many years she lived she should
never forget that first morning when her garden began to grow.  Of
course, it did seem to begin to grow for her that morning.  When Dickon
began to clear places to plant seeds, she remembered what Basil had
sung at her when he wanted to tease her
she inquired
he answered, digging away with the trowel
said Mary
Then Mary told him about Basil and his brothers and sisters in India
and of how she had hated them and of their calling her
They used to dance round and sing at me.  They sang --

         'Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
         How does your garden grow?
         With silver bells, and cockle shells,
         And marigolds all in a row.'

I just remembered it and it made me wonder if there were really flowers
like silver bells."

She frowned a little and gave her trowel a rather spiteful dig into the
earth
But Dickon laughed
he said, and as he crumbled the rich black soil she saw he was
sniffing up the scent of it
Mary, kneeling by him holding the seeds, looked at him and stopped
frowning
she said
Dickon sat up on his heels as Martha did when she was polishing the
grate.  He did look funny and delightful, Mary thought, with his round
blue eyes and red cheeks and happy looking turned-up nose
he said
Mary checked them off on her fingers
Dickon laughed so that he was obliged to stifle the sound by putting
his arm over his mouth
he said
Then Mary did a strange thing.  She leaned forward and asked him a
question she had never dreamed of asking any one before.  And she tried
to ask it in Yorkshire because that was his language, and in India a
native was always pleased if you knew his speech
she said
he answered heartily
said Mary
And then they began to work harder than ever and more joyfully.  Mary
was startled and sorry when she heard the big clock in the courtyard
strike the hour of her midday dinner
she said mournfully
Dickon grinned
he said
He picked up his coat from the grass and brought out of a pocket a
lumpy little bundle tied up in a quite clean, coarse, blue and white
handkerchief.  It held two thick pieces of bread with a slice of
something laid between them
he said
Mary thought it looked a queer dinner, but he seemed ready to enjoy it
he said
He sat down with his back against a tree
he said
Mary could scarcely bear to leave him.  Suddenly it seemed as if he
might be a sort of wood fairy who might be gone when she came into the
garden again.  He seemed too good to be true.  She went slowly half-way
to the door in the wall and then she stopped and went back
she said.

His poppy-colored cheeks were distended with his first big bite of
bread and bacon, but he managed to smile encouragingly
he said
And she was quite sure she was
Mary ran so fast that she was rather out of breath when she reached her
room.  Her hair was ruffled on her forehead and her cheeks were bright
pink.  Her dinner was waiting on the table, and Martha was waiting near
it
she said
said Mary
said Martha exultantly
said Mary in a determined voice.

Martha looked rather taken aback but she looked pleased, too
she said
said Mary
said Martha, a trifle doubtful
said Mary
Martha beamed with satisfaction
said Mary obstinately
Martha chuckled delightedly
she said
asked Mary
Mary was afraid that she might begin to ask difficult questions, but
she did not.  She was very much interested in the seeds and gardening
tools, and there was only one moment when Mary was frightened.  This
was when she began to ask where the flowers were to be planted
she inquired
said Mary, hesitating
said Mary
advised Martha
Mary said anxiously
answered Martha
Mary ate her dinner as quickly as she could and when she rose from the
table she was going to run to her room to put on her hat again, but
Martha stopped her
she said
Mary turned quite pale
she said
explained Martha
cried Mary
said Mary thankfully.

If he did not come back until winter, or even autumn, there would be
time to watch the secret garden come alive.  Even if he found out then
and took it away from her she would have had that much at least
She did not finish the sentence, because the door opened, and Mrs.
Medlock walked in.  She had on her best black dress and cap, and her
collar was fastened with a large brooch with a picture of a man's face
on it.  It was a colored photograph of Mr. Medlock who had died years
ago, and she always wore it when she was dressed up.  She looked
nervous and excited
she said quickly
All the pink left Mary's cheeks.  Her heart began to thump and she felt
herself changing into a stiff, plain, silent child again.  She did not
even answer Mrs. Medlock, but turned and walked into her bedroom,
followed by Martha.  She said nothing while her dress was changed, and
her hair brushed, and after she was quite tidy she followed Mrs.
Medlock down the corridors, in silence.  What was there for her to say?
She was obliged to go and see Mr. Craven and he would not like her, and
she would not like him.  She knew what he would think of her.

She was taken to a part of the house she had not been into before.  At
last Mrs. Medlock knocked at a door, and when some one said
they entered the room together.  A man was sitting in an armchair
before the fire, and Mrs. Medlock spoke to him
she said
said Mr. Craven.

When she went out and closed the door, Mary could only stand waiting, a
plain little thing, twisting her thin hands together.  She could see
that the man in the chair was not so much a hunchback as a man with
high, rather crooked shoulders, and he had black hair streaked with
white.  He turned his head over his high shoulders and spoke to her
he said.

Mary went to him.

He was not ugly.  His face would have been handsome if it had not been
so miserable.  He looked as if the sight of her worried and fretted him
and as if he did not know what in the world to do with her
he asked
answered Mary
He rubbed his forehead fretfully as he looked her over
he said
Mary answered in what she knew was her stiffest
way.

What an unhappy face he had! His black eyes seemed as if they scarcely
saw her, as if they were seeing something else, and he could hardly
keep his thoughts upon her
he said
began Mary
and then the lump in her throat
choked her
he inquired
said Mary
He rubbed his forehead again and stared at her
he muttered absentmindedly.

Then Mary gathered a scrap of courage
she stammered
he replied
said Mary
He seemed to rouse himself
Mary answered, hoping that her voice did
not tremble
He was watching her
he said
argued Mary
he asked next
gasped Mary
he said in a worried voice
Mary put her hand up to her throat because she was afraid he might see
the excited lump which she felt jump into it.  She came a step nearer
to him
she said tremulously.

Her anxious little face seemed to worry him more than ever
he exclaimed
Mary said again in spite of herself
said Mr. Craven
It seemed
hard for him to speak his dead wife's name
as if a sudden thought had struck him
quavered Mary
In her eagerness she did not realize how queer the words would sound
and that they were not the ones she had meant to say.  Mr. Craven
looked quite startled
he repeated
Mary
faltered.

He gazed at her a moment and then passed his hand quickly over his eyes
he said slowly
said Mary
Mr. Craven got up and began to walk slowly across the room
he said to himself, and Mary thought that somehow she
must have reminded him of something.  When he stopped and spoke to her
his dark eyes looked almost soft and kind
he said
with something like a smile
he answered
He
touched the bell to call Mrs. Medlock
Mrs. Medlock came so quickly that Mary thought she must have been
waiting in the corridor
Mr. Craven said to her
Mrs. Medlock looked pleased.  She was relieved to hear that she need
not "look after" Mary too much.  She had felt her a tiresome charge and
had indeed seen as little of her as she dared.  In addition to this she
was fond of Martha's mother
she said
Mr. Craven answered
When Mrs. Medlock left her at the end of her own corridor Mary flew
back to her room.  She found Martha waiting there.  Martha had, in
fact, hurried back after she had removed the dinner service
cried Mary
said Martha delightedly
said Mary solemnly
She ran as quickly as she could to the garden.  She had been away so
much longer than she had thought she should and she knew Dickon would
have to set out early on his five-mile walk.  When she slipped through
the door under the ivy, she saw he was not working where she had left
him.  The gardening tools were laid together under a tree.  She ran to
them, looking all round the place, but there was no Dickon to be seen.
He had gone away and the secret garden was empty -- except for the robin
who had just flown across the wall and sat on a standard rose-bush
watching her
she said woefully
Something white fastened to the standard rose-bush caught her eye.  It
was a piece of paper, in fact, it was a piece of the letter she had
printed for Martha to send to Dickon.  It was fastened on the bush with
a long thorn, and in a minute she knew Dickon had left it there.  There
were some roughly printed letters on it and a sort of picture.  At
first she could not tell what it was.  Then she saw it was meant for a
nest with a bird sitting on it.  Underneath were the printed letters
and they said
Mary took the picture back to the house when she went to her supper and
she showed it to Martha
said Martha with great pride
Then Mary knew Dickon had meant the picture to be a message.  He had
meant that she might be sure he would keep her secret.  Her garden was
her nest and she was like a missel thrush.  Oh, how she did like that
queer, common boy!

She hoped he would come back the very next day and she fell asleep
looking forward to the morning.

But you never know what the weather will do in Yorkshire, particularly
in the springtime.  She was awakened in the night by the sound of rain
beating with heavy drops against her window.  It was pouring down in
torrents and the wind was "wuthering" round the corners and in the
chimneys of the huge old house.  Mary sat up in bed and felt miserable
and angry
she said
She threw herself back on her pillow and buried her face.  She did not
cry, but she lay and hated the sound of the heavily beating rain, she
hated the wind and its
She could not go to sleep again.
The mournful sound kept her awake because she felt mournful herself.
If she had felt happy it would probably have lulled her to sleep.  How
it "wuthered" and how the big raindrops poured down and beat against
the pane
she said.


She had been lying awake turning from side to side for about an hour,
when suddenly something made her sit up in bed and turn her head toward
the door listening.  She listened and she listened
she said in a loud whisper
The door of her room was ajar and the sound came down the corridor, a
far-off faint sound of fretful crying.  She listened for a few minutes
and each minute she became more and more sure.  She felt as if she must
find out what it was.  It seemed even stranger than the secret garden
and the buried key.  Perhaps the fact that she was in a rebellious mood
made her bold.  She put her foot out of bed and stood on the floor
she said
There was a candle by her bedside and she took it up and went softly
out of the room.  The corridor looked very long and dark, but she was
too excited to mind that.  She thought she remembered the corners she
must turn to find the short corridor with the door covered with
tapestry -- the one Mrs. Medlock had come through the day she lost
herself.  The sound had come up that passage.  So she went on with her
dim light, almost feeling her way, her heart beating so loud that she
fancied she could hear it.  The far-off faint crying went on and led
her.  Sometimes it stopped for a moment or so and then began again.
Was this the right corner to turn? She stopped and thought.  Yes it
was.  Down this passage and then to the left, and then up two broad
steps, and then to the right again.  Yes, there was the tapestry door.

She pushed it open very gently and closed it behind her, and she stood
in the corridor and could hear the crying quite plainly, though it was
not loud.  It was on the other side of the wall at her left and a few
yards farther on there was a door.  She could see a glimmer of light
coming from beneath it.  The Someone was crying in that room, and it
was quite a young Someone.

So she walked to the door and pushed it open, and there she was
standing in the room!

It was a big room with ancient, handsome furniture in it.  There was a
low fire glowing faintly on the hearth and a night light burning by the
side of a carved four-posted bed hung with brocade, and on the bed was
lying a boy, crying fretfully.

Mary wondered if she was in a real place or if she had fallen asleep
again and was dreaming without knowing it.

The boy had a sharp, delicate face the color of ivory and he seemed to
have eyes too big for it.  He had also a lot of hair which tumbled over
his forehead in heavy locks and made his thin face seem smaller.  He
looked like a boy who had been ill, but he was crying more as if he
were tired and cross than as if he were in pain.

Mary stood near the door with her candle in her hand, holding her
breath.  Then she crept across the room, and, as she drew nearer, the
light attracted the boy's attention and he turned his head on his
pillow and stared at her, his gray eyes opening so wide that they
seemed immense
he said at last in a half-frightened whisper
Mary answered, her own whisper sounding half
frightened
He stared and stared and stared.  Mary could not help noticing what
strange eyes he had.  They were agate gray and they looked too big for
his face because they had black lashes all round them
he replied after waiting a moment or so
she faltered
said the boy
gasped Mary
he said, still keeping his strange eyes fixed on her with
an anxious expression.

She came close to the bed and he put out his hand and touched her
he said
Mary had slipped on a woolen wrapper before she left her room and she
put a piece of it between his fingers
she said
he asked
He was still fingering the fold of her wrapper, but he began to look a
little more as if he believed in her reality
he answered
asked Mary
Mary asked again, feeling more mystified every moment
Mary said
Mary ventured
Mary could not help asking again.

A sort of angry shadow passed over the boy's face
said Mary half speaking to
herself
the boy asked
Mary stammered
said Mary
he answered rather fretfully
said Mary.  She glanced round the room with its
high ceiling and shadowy corners and dim fire-light
the boy said restlessly.

Mary thought of something all at once
she began
He still held the fold of her wrapper and he gave it a little pull
he said
Mary put down her candle on the table near the bed and sat down on the
cushioned stool.  She did not want to go away at all.  She wanted to
stay in the mysterious hidden-away room and talk to the mysterious boy
she said.

He wanted to know how long she had been at Misselthwaite; he wanted to
know which corridor her room was on; he wanted to know what she had
been doing; if she disliked the moor as he disliked it; where she had
lived before she came to Yorkshire.  She answered all these questions
and many more and he lay back on his pillow and listened.  He made her
tell him a great deal about India and about her voyage across the
ocean.  She found out that because he had been an invalid he had not
learned things as other children had.  One of his nurses had taught him
to read when he was quite little and he was always reading and looking
at pictures in splendid books.

Though his father rarely saw him when he was awake, he was given all
sorts of wonderful things to amuse himself with.  He never seemed to
have been amused, however.  He could have anything he asked for and was
never made to do anything he did not like to do
he said indifferently
He said it as if he was so accustomed to the idea that it had ceased to
matter to him at all.  He seemed to like the sound of Mary's voice.  As
she went on talking he listened in a drowsy, interested way.  Once or
twice she wondered if he were not gradually falling into a doze.  But
at last he asked a question which opened up a new subject
he asked
answered Mary, forgetting herself for the moment
he demanded in a surprised voice
Colin half sat up, turning toward her, leaning on his elbows
he
exclaimed as if he were suddenly very much interested
said Mary nervously
Colin persisted eagerly
was Mary's
careful answer.

But it was too late to be careful.  He was too much like herself.  He
too had had nothing to think about and the idea of a hidden garden
attracted him as it had attracted her.  He asked question after
question.  Where was it? Had she never looked for the door? Had she
never asked the gardeners
said Mary
said Colin
Mary faltered, beginning to feel frightened.  If he could
make people answer questions, who knew what might happen
he said
Mary had not known that she herself had been spoiled, but she could see
quite plainly that this mysterious boy had been.  He thought that the
whole world belonged to him.  How peculiar he was and how coolly he
spoke of not living
she asked, partly because she was
curious and partly in hope of making him forget the garden
he answered as indifferently as he had
spoken before
inquired Mary
he answered, in a cross, tired fashion
Mary said
She did so want him to forget
the garden
he answered
answered Mary, in quite a low voice
he went on persistently
He had become quite excited and his strange eyes began to shine like
stars and looked more immense than ever
he said
Mary's hands clutched each other.  Everything would be
spoiled -- everything! Dickon would never come back.  She would never
again feel like a missel thrush with a safe-hidden nest
she cried out.

He stared as if he thought she had gone crazy
he exclaimed
she answered almost with a sob in her throat
He leaned still farther forward
he said
Mary's words almost tumbled over one another
she panted
he interrupted her
she went on
He stopped her again as excited as she was herself
he put in quickly
he said
said
Mary
He dropped back on his pillow and lay there with an odd expression on
his face
he said
pleaded Mary
he said very slowly, his eyes looking dreamy
Mary began to recover her breath and feel safer because the idea of
keeping the secret seemed to please him.  She felt almost sure that if
she kept on talking and could make him see the garden in his mind as
she had seen it he would like it so much that he could not bear to
think that everybody might tramp in to it when they chose
she said
He lay quite still and listened while she went on talking about the
roses which might have clambered from tree to tree and hung down -- about
the many birds which might have built their nests there because it was
so safe.  And then she told him about the robin and Ben Weatherstaff,
and there was so much to tell about the robin and it was so easy and
safe to talk about it that she ceased to be afraid.  The robin pleased
him so much that he smiled until he looked almost beautiful, and at
first Mary had thought that he was even plainer than herself, with his
big eyes and heavy locks of hair
he said
She did not know what to say, so she did not say anything.  He
evidently did not expect an answer and the next moment he gave her a
surprise
he said
Mary had not noticed it before, but she looked up and saw it.  It was a
curtain of soft silk hanging over what seemed to be some picture
she answered
said Colin
Mary got up, much mystified, and found the cord.  When she pulled it
the silk curtain ran back on rings and when it ran back it uncovered a
picture.  It was the picture of a girl with a laughing face.  She had
bright hair tied up with a blue ribbon and her gay, lovely eyes were
exactly like Colin's unhappy ones, agate gray and looking twice as big
as they really were because of the black lashes all round them
said Colin complainingly
said Mary
he
grumbled
Mary did as she was told and returned to her footstool
she said
He moved uncomfortably
he said
There were
a few moments of silence and then Mary spoke
she
inquired
he answered
said Mary
she
hesitated
said Colin
He lay thinking a few minutes, as he had done before, and then he spoke
again
he said
said Mary
He nodded his head toward the outer corridor
Then Mary understood Martha's troubled look when she had asked
questions about the crying
she said
said Mary
he said rather shyly
said Mary, drawing her footstool closer
he said drowsily.

Somehow she was sorry for him and did not want him to lie awake, so she
leaned against the bed and began to stroke and pat his hand and sing a
very low little chanting song in Hindustani
he said more drowsily still, and she went on chanting
and stroking, but when she looked at him again his black lashes were
lying close against his cheeks, for his eyes were shut and he was fast
asleep.  So she got up softly, took her candle and crept away without
making a sound
The moor was hidden in mist when the morning came, and the rain had not
stopped pouring down.  There could be no going out of doors.  Martha
was so busy that Mary had no opportunity of talking to her, but in the
afternoon she asked her to come and sit with her in the nursery.  She
came bringing the stocking she was always knitting when she was doing
nothing else
she asked as soon as they sat down
said Mary.

Martha let her knitting drop on her knee and gazed at her with startled
eyes
she exclaimed
Mary went on
Martha's face became red with fright
she said half crying
said Mary
cried Martha
said Mary
Martha fairly gasped with amazement
she protested
said Mary
cried agitated Martha
said Mary firmly
sighed Martha, wiping her
forehead with her apron
said Martha
Mary argued
cried Martha with wide open eyes
Mary answered
decided Martha, drawing a long
breath
inquired Mary
gasped Martha
asked Mary
said Martha
Mary asked
said Martha
said Mary
said Martha
asked Mary
Mary sat and looked at the fire
she said slowly
said Martha
said
Mary
said Martha
Very soon afterward a bell rang and she rolled up her knitting
she said
She was out of the room about ten minutes and then she came back with a
puzzled expression
she said
Mary was quite willing to go quickly.  She did not want to see Colin as
much as she wanted to see Dickon; but she wanted to see him very much.

There was a bright fire on the hearth when she entered his room, and in
the daylight she saw it was a very beautiful room indeed.  There were
rich colors in the rugs and hangings and pictures and books on the
walls which made it look glowing and comfortable even in spite of the
gray sky and falling rain.  Colin looked rather like a picture himself.
He was wrapped in a velvet dressing-gown and sat against a big brocaded
cushion.  He had a red spot on each cheek
he said
answered Mary
He frowned
he said
Mary went and brought her back.  Poor Martha was shaking in her shoes.
Colin was still frowning
he demanded
Martha faltered, turning quite red
said Martha
pleaded Martha
said Master Craven grandly
bobbing a curtsy
said Colin more grandly still
When the door closed behind Martha, Colin found Mistress Mary gazing at
him as if he had set her wondering
he asked her
said Mary, seating herself on the big stool
he said
said Mary
he said
She might as well tell him, she thought she could talk about Dickon
without mentioning the secret garden.  She had liked to hear Martha
talk about him.  Besides, she longed to talk about him.  It would seem
to bring him nearer
she explained
There were some big books on a table at his side and he dragged one
suddenly toward him
he exclaimed
The book was a beautiful one with superb colored illustrations and he
turned to one of them
he asked eagerly
Mary explained
Colin lay back on his cushion and his eyes grew larger and larger and
the spots on his cheeks burned
he said
Mary went on
said Colin
protested Mary
said Colin, turning on his elbow to look at
her
said Mary suddenly remembering
said Colin restlessly.  He
looked like a person listening to a new sound in the distance and
wondering what it was
said Mary
he said in a resentful tone.

Mary was silent for a minute and then she said something bold
He moved as if he were startled
said Mary unsympathetically.  She didn't like the way he had of talking
about dying.  She did not feel very sympathetic.  She felt rather as if
he almost boasted about it
he answered crossly
Mistress Mary felt quite contrary.  She pinched her lips together
she said
said Mary quite obstinately.

That made Colin turn and look at her again
he said.

And then he lay back on his cushion and was still, as if he were
thinking.  And there was quite a long silence.  Perhaps they were both
of them thinking strange things children do not usually think
said Mary at last
Colin answered
said Mary
reflecting.  She felt as if she would like this thing to be settled one
way or the other
She pulled her stool nearer to the sofa and her expression
quite changed at the remembrance of the wide curving mouth and wide
open eyes
she said
It was the best thing she could have said.  To talk about Dickon meant
to talk about the moor and about the cottage and the fourteen people
who lived in it on sixteen shillings a week -- and the children who got
fat on the moor grass like the wild ponies.  And about Dickon's
mother -- and the skipping-rope -- and the moor with the sun on it -- and
about pale green points sticking up out of the black sod.  And it was
all so alive that Mary talked more than she had ever talked before -- and
Colin both talked and listened as he had never done either before.  And
they both began to laugh over nothings as children will when they are
happy together.  And they laughed so that in the end they were making
as much noise as if they had been two ordinary healthy natural
ten-year-old creatures -- instead of a hard, little, unloving girl and a
sickly boy who believed that he was going to die.

They enjoyed themselves so much that they forgot the pictures and they
forgot about the time.  They had been laughing quite loudly over Ben
Weatherstaff and his robin, and Colin was actually sitting up as if he
had forgotten about his weak back, when he suddenly remembered
something
he said
It seemed so queer that they had talked so much and never remembered
this simple thing that they laughed more than ever, because they had
got into the humor to laugh at anything.  And in the midst of the fun
the door opened and in walked Dr. Craven and Mrs. Medlock.

Dr. Craven started in actual alarm and Mrs. Medlock almost fell back
because he had accidentally bumped against her
exclaimed poor Mrs. Medlock with her eyes almost starting
out of her head
said Dr. Craven, coming forward
Then Mary was reminded of the boy Rajah again.  Colin answered as if
neither the doctor's alarm nor Mrs. Medlock's terror were of the
slightest consequence.  He was as little disturbed or frightened as if
an elderly cat and dog had walked into the room
he said
Dr. Craven turned reproachfully to Mrs. Medlock.  "Oh, sir" she panted
said Colin
Mary saw that Dr. Craven did not look pleased, but it was quite plain
that he dare not oppose his patient.  He sat down by Colin and felt his
pulse
he said
answered Colin, his eyes
beginning to look dangerously sparkling
Mrs. Medlock and Dr. Craven looked at each other in a troubled way, but
there was evidently nothing to be done
ventured Mrs. Medlock
thinking the matter over
said
Colin
Dr. Craven did not stay very long.  He talked to the nurse for a few
minutes when she came into the room and said a few words of warning to
Colin.  He must not talk too much; he must not forget that he was ill;
he must not forget that he was very easily tired.  Mary thought that
there seemed to be a number of uncomfortable things he was not to
forget.

Colin looked fretful and kept his strange black-lashed eyes fixed on
Dr. Craven's face
he said at last
Dr. Craven did not look happy when he left the room.  He gave a puzzled
glance at the little girl sitting on the large stool.  She had become a
stiff, silent child again as soon as he entered and he could not see
what the attraction was.  The boy actually did look brighter,
however -- and he sighed rather heavily as he went down the corridor
said
Colin, as the nurse brought in the tea and put it on the table by the
sofa
After another week of rain the high arch of blue sky appeared again and
the sun which poured down was quite hot.  Though there had been no
chance to see either the secret garden or Dickon, Mistress Mary had
enjoyed herself very much.  The week had not seemed long.  She had
spent hours of every day with Colin in his room, talking about Rajahs
or gardens or Dickon and the cottage on the moor.  They had looked at
the splendid books and pictures and sometimes Mary had read things to
Colin, and sometimes he had read a little to her.  When he was amused
and interested she thought he scarcely looked like an invalid at all,
except that his face was so colorless and he was always on the sofa
Mrs. Medlock said once
laughing a little.

In her talks with Colin, Mary had tried to be very cautious about the
secret garden.  There were certain things she wanted to find out from
him, but she felt that she must find them out without asking him direct
questions.  In the first place, as she began to like to be with him,
she wanted to discover whether he was the kind of boy you could tell a
secret to.  He was not in the least like Dickon, but he was evidently
so pleased with the idea of a garden no one knew anything about that
she thought perhaps he could be trusted.  But she had not known him
long enough to be sure.  The second thing she wanted to find out was
this: If he could be trusted -- if he really could -- wouldn't it be
possible to take him to the garden without having any one find it out?
The grand doctor had said that he must have fresh air and Colin had
said that he would not mind fresh air in a secret garden.  Perhaps if
he had a great deal of fresh air and knew Dickon and the robin and saw
things growing he might not think so much about dying.  Mary had seen
herself in the glass sometimes lately when she had realized that she
looked quite a different creature from the child she had seen when she
arrived from India.  This child looked nicer.  Even Martha had seen a
change in her
she had said
said Mary
said Martha, ruffling it up a little round her
face
If gardens and fresh air had been good for her perhaps they would be
good for Colin.  But then, if he hated people to look at him, perhaps
he would not like to see Dickon
she inquired one
day
he answered
said Mary, not at all
admiringly
said Colin, frowning
said Mary.  Then she began to smile slowly
he said
Mary asked uncertainly.

He lay back on his cushion and paused thoughtfully
he said quite slowly, as if he were thinking over
every word
said Mary
he said, still thinking it over
Then he laughed and she laughed too; in fact it ended in their both
laughing a great deal and finding the idea of a boy animal hiding in
his hole very funny indeed.

What Mary felt afterward was that she need not fear about Dickon.


On that first morning when the sky was blue again Mary wakened very
early.  The sun was pouring in slanting rays through the blinds and
there was something so joyous in the sight of it that she jumped out of
bed and ran to the window.  She drew up the blinds and opened the
window itself and a great waft of fresh, scented air blew in upon her.
The moor was blue and the whole world looked as if something Magic had
happened to it.  There were tender little fluting sounds here and there
and everywhere, as if scores of birds were beginning to tune up for a
concert.  Mary put her hand out of the window and held it in the sun
she said
She kneeled down and leaned out of the window as far as she could,
breathing big breaths and sniffing the air until she laughed because
she remembered what Dickon's mother had said about the end of his nose
quivering like a rabbit's
she said
A sudden thought made her scramble to her feet
She had learned to dress herself by this time and she put on her
clothes in five minutes.  She knew a small side door which she could
unbolt herself and she flew downstairs in her stocking feet and put on
her shoes in the hall.  She unchained and unbolted and unlocked and
when the door was open she sprang across the step with one bound, and
there she was standing on the grass, which seemed to have turned green,
and with the sun pouring down on her and warm sweet wafts about her and
the fluting and twittering and singing coming from every bush and tree.
She clasped her hands for pure joy and looked up in the sky and it was
so blue and pink and pearly and white and flooded with springtime light
that she felt as if she must flute and sing aloud herself and knew that
thrushes and robins and skylarks could not possibly help it.  She ran
around the shrubs and paths towards the secret garden
she said
The long warm rain had done strange things to the herbaceous beds which
bordered the walk by the lower wall.  There were things sprouting and
pushing out from the roots of clumps of plants and there were actually
here and there glimpses of royal purple and yellow unfurling among the
stems of crocuses.  Six months before Mistress Mary would not have seen
how the world was waking up, but now she missed nothing.

When she had reached the place where the door hid itself under the ivy,
she was startled by a curious loud sound.  It was the caw -- caw of a
crow and it came from the top of the wall, and when she looked up,
there sat a big glossy-plumaged blue-black bird, looking down at her
very wisely indeed.  She had never seen a crow so close before and he
made her a little nervous, but the next moment he spread his wings and
flapped away across the garden.  She hoped he was not going to stay
inside and she pushed the door open wondering if he would.  When she
got fairly into the garden she saw that he probably did intend to stay
because he had alighted on a dwarf apple-tree and under the apple-tree
was lying a little reddish animal with a Bushy tail, and both of them
were watching the stooping body and rust-red head of Dickon, who was
kneeling on the grass working hard.

Mary flew across the grass to him
she cried out
He got up himself, laughing and glowing, and tousled; his eyes like a
bit of the sky
he said
Mary put her hands on her chest, panting, as if she had been running
herself
she said
Seeing him talking to a stranger, the little bushy-tailed animal rose
from its place under the tree and came to him, and the rook, cawing
once, flew down from its branch and settled quietly on his shoulder
he said, rubbing the little reddish
animal's head
Neither of the creatures looked as if he were the least afraid of Mary.
When Dickon began to walk about, Soot stayed on his shoulder and
Captain trotted quietly close to his side
said Dickon
He threw himself upon his knees and Mary went down beside him.  They
had come upon a whole clump of crocuses burst into purple and orange
and gold.  Mary bent her face down and kissed and kissed them
she said when she lifted her
head
He looked puzzled but smiled
he said
They ran from one part of
the garden to another and found so many wonders that they were obliged
to remind themselves that they must whisper or speak low.  He showed
her swelling leafbuds on rose branches which had seemed dead.  He
showed her ten thousand new green points pushing through the mould.
They put their eager young noses close to the earth and sniffed its
warmed springtime breathing; they dug and pulled and laughed low with
rapture until Mistress Mary's hair was as tumbled as Dickon's and her
cheeks were almost as poppy red as his.

There was every joy on earth in the secret garden that morning, and in
the midst of them came a delight more delightful than all, because it
was more wonderful.  Swiftly something flew across the wall and darted
through the trees to a close grown corner, a little flare of
red-breasted bird with something hanging from its beak.  Dickon stood
quite still and put his hand on Mary almost as if they had suddenly
found themselves laughing in a church
he whispered in broad Yorkshire
They settled down softly upon the grass and sat there
without moving
said Dickon
Mistress Mary was not at all sure that she knew, as Dickon seemed to,
how to try to look like grass and trees and bushes.  But he had said
the queer thing as if it were the simplest and most natural thing in
the world, and she felt it must be quite easy to him, and indeed she
watched him for a few minutes carefully, wondering if it was possible
for him to quietly turn green and put out branches and leaves.  But he
only sat wonderfully still, and when he spoke dropped his voice to such
a softness that it was curious that she could hear him, but she could
he said
Mary said as softly
as possible
said Dickon
she whispered.

He turned his head to look at her
he asked
answered Mary.

Dickon looked actually relieved as soon as the surprise died away from
his round face
he exclaimed
said Mary
he answered
Mary always wanted to hear about mother
she asked, not at all afraid to hear.

Dickon grinned sweet-temperedly
he answered
asked Mary
Mary told him her story about the midnight wuthering of the wind which
had wakened her and about the faint far-off sounds of the complaining
voice which had led her down the dark corridors with her candle and had
ended with her opening of the door of the dimly lighted room with the
carven four-posted bed in the corner.  When she described the small
ivory-white face and the strange black-rimmed eyes Dickon shook his
head
he said
whispered Mary
said Mary
said Dickon
The fox was lying on the grass close by him, looking up to ask for a
pat now and then, and Dickon bent down and rubbed his neck softly and
thought a few minutes in silence.  Presently he lifted his head and
looked round the garden
he said
Mary looked and caught her breath a little
she cried
said Dickon
said Mary eagerly
explained Dickon
said Mary
Dickon was thinking very hard as he scratched Captain's back
he said
said Mary
said Dickon
He made one of his low whistling calls and the robin turned his head
and looked at him inquiringly, still holding his twig.  Dickon spoke to
him as Ben Weatherstaff did, but Dickon's tone was one of friendly
advice
he said
Mary said, laughing
delightedly
Dickon laughed too and went on talking
he said to the robin
And though the robin did not answer, because his beak was occupied,
Mary knew that when he flew away with his twig to his own corner of the
garden the darkness of his dew-bright eye meant that he would not tell
their secret for the world
They found a great deal to do that morning and Mary was late in
returning to the house and was also in such a hurry to get back to her
work that she quite forgot Colin until the last moment
she said to Martha
Martha looked rather frightened
she said
But Mary was not as afraid of him as other people were and she was not
a self-sacrificing person
she answered
and she ran
away.

The afternoon was even lovelier and busier than the morning had been.
Already nearly all the weeds were cleared out of the garden and most of
the roses and trees had been pruned or dug about.  Dickon had brought a
spade of his own and he had taught Mary to use all her tools, so that
by this time it was plain that though the lovely wild place was not
likely to become a "gardener's garden" it would be a wilderness of
growing things before the springtime was over
Dickon said,
working away with all his might
The little fox and the rook were as happy and busy as they were, and
the robin and his mate flew backward and forward like tiny streaks of
lightning.  Sometimes the rook flapped his black wings and soared away
over the tree-tops in the park.  Each time he came back and perched
near Dickon and cawed several times as if he were relating his
adventures, and Dickon talked to him just as he had talked to the
robin.  Once when Dickon was so busy that he did not answer him at
first, Soot flew on to his shoulders and gently tweaked his ear with
his large beak.  When Mary wanted to rest a little Dickon sat down with
her under a tree and once he took his pipe out of his pocket and played
the soft strange little notes and two squirrels appeared on the wall
and looked and listened
Dickon said, looking at her
as she was digging
Mary was glowing with exercise and good spirits
she said quite exultantly
The sun was beginning to set and sending deep gold-colored rays
slanting under the trees when they parted
said Dickon
said Mary.


She ran back to the house as quickly as her feet would carry her.  She
wanted to tell Colin about Dickon's fox cub and the rook and about what
the springtime had been doing.  She felt sure he would like to hear.
So it was not very pleasant when she opened the door of her room, to
see Martha standing waiting for her with a doleful face
she asked
said Martha
Mary's lips pinched themselves together.  She was no more used to
considering other people than Colin was and she saw no reason why an
ill-tempered boy should interfere with the thing she liked best.  She
knew nothing about the pitifulness of people who had been ill and
nervous and who did not know that they could control their tempers and
need not make other people ill and nervous, too.  When she had had a
headache in India she had done her best to see that everybody else also
had a headache or something quite as bad.  And she felt she was quite
right; but of course now she felt that Colin was quite wrong.

He was not on his sofa when she went into his room.  He was lying flat
on his back in bed and he did not turn his head toward her as she came
in.  This was a bad beginning and Mary marched up to him with her stiff
manner
she said
he
answered, without looking at her
said Mary.

Colin frowned and condescended to look at her
he said.

Mary flew into a fine passion.  She could fly into a passion without
making a noise.  She just grew sour and obstinate and did not care what
happened
she
retorted
said Colin
said Mary
said Colin
said Mary fiercely
They were a nice agreeable pair as they glared at each other.  If they
had been two little street boys they would have sprung at each other
and had a rough-and-tumble fight.  As it was, they did the next thing
to it
cried Colin
said Mary
snapped Colin
Mary's eyes flashed fire
she said
It might sound rather silly to say that but she did not
care
Colin sneered ferociously
retorted Mary
Because she was the stronger of the two she was beginning to get the
better of him.  The truth was that he had never had a fight with any
one like himself in his life and, upon the whole, it was rather good
for him, though neither he nor Mary knew anything about that.  He
turned his head on his pillow and shut his eyes and a big tear was
squeezed out and ran down his cheek.  He was beginning to feel pathetic
and sorry for himself -- not for any one else
he said
contradicted Mary unsympathetically.

He opened his eyes quite wide with indignation.  He had never heard
such a thing said before.  He was at once furious and slightly pleased,
if a person could be both at one time
he cried
said Mary sourly
In spite of his invalid back Colin sat up in bed in quite a healthy
rage
he shouted and he caught hold of his pillow and
threw it at her.  He was not strong enough to throw it far and it only
fell at her feet, but Mary's face looked as pinched as a nutcracker
she said
She walked to the door
and when she reached it she turned round and spoke again
she said
She marched out of the door and closed it behind her, and there to her
great astonishment she found the trained nurse standing as if she had
been listening and, more amazing still -- she was laughing.  She was a
big handsome young woman who ought not to have been a trained nurse at
all, as she could not bear invalids and she was always making excuses
to leave Colin to Martha or any one else who would take her place.
Mary had never liked her, and she simply stood and gazed up at her as
she stood giggling into her handkerchief
she asked her
said the nurse
and she laughed into her
handkerchief again
said the nurse
asked Mary
Mary went back to her room not feeling at all as she had felt when she
had come in from the garden.  She was cross and disappointed but not at
all sorry for Colin.  She had looked forward to telling him a great
many things and she had meant to try to make up her mind whether it
would be safe to trust him with the great secret.  She had been
beginning to think it would be, but now she had changed her mind
entirely.  She would never tell him and he could stay in his room and
never get any fresh air and die if he liked! It would serve him right!
She felt so sour and unrelenting that for a few minutes she almost
forgot about Dickon and the green veil creeping over the world and the
soft wind blowing down from the moor.

Martha was waiting for her and the trouble in her face had been
temporarily replaced by interest and curiosity.  There was a wooden box
on the table and its cover had been removed and revealed that it was
full of neat packages
said Martha
Mary remembered what he had asked her the day she had gone to his room
She opened the package
wondering if he had sent a doll, and also wondering what she should do
with it if he had.  But he had not sent one.  There were several
beautiful books such as Colin had, and two of them were about gardens
and were full of pictures.  There were two or three games and there was
a beautiful little writing-case with a gold monogram on it and a gold
pen and inkstand.

Everything was so nice that her pleasure began to crowd her anger out
of her mind.  She had not expected him to remember her at all and her
hard little heart grew quite warm
she said
If she had been friends with Colin she would have run to show him her
presents at once, and they would have looked at the pictures and read
some of the gardening books and perhaps tried playing the games, and he
would have enjoyed himself so much he would never once have thought he
was going to die or have put his hand on his spine to see if there was
a lump coming.  He had a way of doing that which she could not bear.
It gave her an uncomfortable frightened feeling because he always
looked so frightened himself.  He said that if he felt even quite a
little lump some day he should know his hunch had begun to grow.
Something he had heard Mrs. Medlock whispering to the nurse had given
him the idea and he had thought over it in secret until it was quite
firmly fixed in his mind.  Mrs. Medlock had said his father's back had
begun to show its crookedness in that way when he was a child.  He had
never told any one but Mary that most of his "tantrums" as they called
them grew out of his hysterical hidden fear.  Mary had been sorry for
him when he had told her
she
said to herself
She stood still, looking down at the carpet and thinking
she hesitated, knitting her
brows
She had got up very early in the morning and had worked hard in the
garden and she was tired and sleepy, so as soon as Martha had brought
her supper and she had eaten it, she was glad to go to bed.  As she
laid her head on the pillow she murmured to herself
She thought it was the middle of the night when she was awakened by
such dreadful sounds that she jumped out of bed in an instant.  What
was it -- what was it? The next minute she felt quite sure she knew.
Doors were opened and shut and there were hurrying feet in the
corridors and some one was crying and screaming at the same time,
screaming and crying in a horrible way
she said
As she listened to the sobbing screams she did not wonder that people
were so frightened that they gave him his own way in everything rather
than hear them.  She put her hands over her ears and felt sick and
shivering
she kept saying
Once she wondered if he would stop if she dared go to him and then she
remembered how he had driven her out of the room and thought that
perhaps the sight of her might make him worse.  Even when she pressed
her hands more tightly over her ears she could not keep the awful
sounds out.  She hated them so and was so terrified by them that
suddenly they began to make her angry and she felt as if she should
like to fly into a tantrum herself and frighten him as he was
frightening her.  She was not used to any one's tempers but her own.
She took her hands from her ears and sprang up and stamped her foot
she cried out.

Just then she heard feet almost running down the corridor and her door
opened and the nurse came in.  She was not laughing now by any means.
She even looked rather pale
she said in a great hurry
said Mary, stamping her
foot with excitement.

The stamp rather pleased the nurse.  The truth was that she had been
afraid she might find Mary crying and hiding her head under the
bed-clothes
she said
It was not until afterward that Mary realized that the thing had been
funny as well as dreadful -- that it was funny that all the grown-up
people were so frightened that they came to a little girl just because
they guessed she was almost as bad as Colin himself.

She flew along the corridor and the nearer she got to the screams the
higher her temper mounted.  She felt quite wicked by the time she
reached the door.  She slapped it open with her hand and ran across the
room to the four-posted bed
she almost shouted
A nice sympathetic child could neither
have thought nor said such things, but it just happened that the shock
of hearing them was the best possible thing for this hysterical boy
whom no one had ever dared to restrain or contradict.

He had been lying on his face beating his pillow with his hands and he
actually almost jumped around, he turned so quickly at the sound of the
furious little voice.  His face looked dreadful, white and red and
swollen, and he was gasping and choking; but savage little Mary did not
care an atom
she said
He actually had stopped screaming because she had startled him so.  The
scream which had been coming almost choked him.  The tears were
streaming down his face and he shook all over
he gasped and sobbed
shouted Mary
and she stamped each
time she said it
choked out Colin
and he began to
writhe again and turned on his face and sobbed and wailed but he didn't
scream
contradicted Mary fiercely
She liked the word "hysterics" and felt somehow as if it had an effect
on him.  He was probably like herself and had never heard it before
she commanded
The nurse, Mrs. Medlock and Martha had been standing huddled together
near the door staring at her, their mouths half open.  All three had
gasped with fright more than once.  The nurse came forward as if she
were half afraid.  Colin was heaving with great breathless sobs
she hesitated in a low voice.

Colin heard her, however, and he gasped out between two sobs
It was a poor thin back to look at when it was bared.  Every rib could
be counted and every joint of the spine, though Mistress Mary did not
count them as she bent over and examined them with a solemn savage
little face.  She looked so sour and old-fashioned that the nurse
turned her head aside to hide the twitching of her mouth.  There was
just a minute's silence, for even Colin tried to hold his breath while
Mary looked up and down his spine, and down and up, as intently as if
she had been the great doctor from London
she said at last
No one but Colin himself knew what effect those crossly spoken childish
words had on him.  If he had ever had any one to talk to about his
secret terrors -- if he had ever dared to let himself ask questions -- if
he had had childish companions and had not lain on his back in the huge
closed house, breathing an atmosphere heavy with the fears of people
who were most of them ignorant and tired of him, he would have found
out that most of his fright and illness was created by himself.  But he
had lain and thought of himself and his aches and weariness for hours
and days and months and years.  And now that an angry unsympathetic
little girl insisted obstinately that he was not as ill as he thought
he was he actually felt as if she might be speaking the truth
ventured the nurse
Colin gulped and turned his
face a little to look at her
he said pathetically
said Mary, and she gulped too.

Colin turned on his face again and but for his long-drawn broken
breaths, which were the dying down of his storm of sobbing, he lay
still for a minute, though great tears streamed down his face and wet
the pillow.  Actually the tears meant that a curious great relief had
come to him.  Presently he turned and looked at the nurse again and
strangely enough he was not like a Rajah at all as he spoke to her
he said.

The nurse was neither clever nor soft-hearted but she could repeat some
of the London doctor's words
Colin's tantrum had passed and he was weak and worn out with crying and
this perhaps made him feel gentle.  He put out his hand a little toward
Mary, and I am glad to say that, her own tantum having passed, she was
softened too and met him half-way with her hand, so that it was a sort
of making up
he said
He remembered just in time to stop himself from
saying
and he ended
The nurse remade the tumbled bed and shook and straightened the
pillows.  Then she made Colin a cup of beef tea and gave a cup to Mary,
who really was very glad to get it after her excitement.  Mrs. Medlock
and Martha gladly slipped away, and after everything was neat and calm
and in order the nurse looked as if she would very gladly slip away
also.  She was a healthy young woman who resented being robbed of her
sleep and she yawned quite openly as she looked at Mary, who had pushed
her big footstool close to the four-posted bed and was holding Colin's
hand
she said
Mary
whispered to Colin.

His hand pulled hers gently and he turned his tired eyes on her
appealingly
he answered
Mary said to the yawning nurse
said the nurse, with an attempt at reluctance
answered Mary.

The nurse was out of the room in a minute and as soon as she was gone
Colin pulled Mary's hand again
he said
Mary looked at his poor little tired face and swollen eyes and her
heart relented
she answered
His hand quite trembled
he said
answered Mary
He closed his eyes and lay quite still and she held his hand and began
to speak very slowly and in a very low voice
The soft drone of her voice was making him stiller and stiller and she
saw it and went on
very softly
and slowly indeed
And Colin was asleep
Of course Mary did not waken early the next morning.  She slept late
because she was tired, and when Martha brought her breakfast she told
her that though.  Colin was quite quiet he was ill and feverish as he
always was after he had worn himself out with a fit of crying.  Mary
ate her breakfast slowly as she listened
Martha said
said Mary
with a sudden
inspiration.

She had her hat on when she appeared in Colin's room and for a second
he looked disappointed.  He was in bed.  His face was pitifully white
and there were dark circles round his eyes
he said
Mary went and leaned against his bed
she said
His whole face brightened and a little color came into it
he cried out
In five minutes Mary was with Dickon in their garden.  The fox and the
crow were with him again and this time he had brought two tame
squirrels
he said
When he said "Nut" one squirrel leaped on to his right shoulder and
when he said "Shell" the other one leaped on to his left shoulder.

When they sat down on the grass with Captain curled at their feet, Soot
solemnly listening on a tree and Nut and Shell nosing about close to
them, it seemed to Mary that it would be scarcely bearable to leave
such delightfulness, but when she began to tell her story somehow the
look in Dickon's funny face gradually changed her mind.  She could see
he felt sorrier for Colin than she did.  He looked up at the sky and
all about him
he said
sniffing with his happy
turned-up nose
When he was very much interested he often spoke quite broad Yorkshire
though at other times he tried to modify his dialect so that Mary could
better understand.  But she loved his broad Yorkshire and had in fact
been trying to learn to speak it herself.  So she spoke a little now
she said (which meant "Yes, indeed, we must
she proceeded, and Dickon
grinned, because when the little wench tried to twist her tongue into
speaking Yorkshire it amused him very much
When she stopped she was quite proud of herself.  She had never made a
long speech in Yorkshire before and she had remembered very well
Dickon
chuckled
said Mary,
chuckling herself.

The garden had reached the time when every day and every night it
seemed as if Magicians were passing through it drawing loveliness out
of the earth and the boughs with wands.  It was hard to go away and
leave it all, particularly as Nut had actually crept on to her dress
and Shell had scrambled down the trunk of the apple-tree they sat under
and stayed there looking at her with inquiring eyes.  But she went back
to the house and when she sat down close to Colin's bed he began to
sniff as Dickon did though not in such an experienced way
he cried out quite
joyously
said Mary
She said it as broadly as she could, and you do not know how broadly
Yorkshire sounds until you have heard some one speak it.  Colin began
to laugh
he said
answered Mary triumphantly
And then she began to laugh too and they both laughed until they could
not stop themselves and they laughed until the room echoed and Mrs.
Medlock opening the door to come in drew back into the corridor and
stood listening amazed
she said, speaking rather broad Yorkshire herself
because there was no one to hear her and she was so astonished
There was so much to talk about.  It seemed as if Colin could never
hear enough of Dickon and Captain and Soot and Nut and Shell and the
pony whose name was Jump.  Mary had run round into the wood with Dickon
to see Jump.  He was a tiny little shaggy moor pony with thick locks
hanging over his eyes and with a pretty face and a nuzzling velvet
nose.  He was rather thin with living on moor grass but he was as tough
and wiry as if the muscle in his little legs had been made of steel
springs.  He had lifted his head and whinnied softly the moment he saw
Dickon and he had trotted up to him and put his head across his
shoulder and then Dickon had talked into his ear and Jump had talked
back in odd little whinnies and puffs and snorts.  Dickon had made him
give Mary his small front hoof and kiss her on her cheek with his
velvet muzzle
Colin asked
answered Mary
Colin lay quiet a little while and his strange gray eyes seemed to be
staring at the wall, but Mary saw he was thinking
he said at last
asked Mary
he answered
said Mary
answered Mary without any affectation
Colin put out his thin hand and touched her
he said
she admitted frankly
said Colin
answered Mary
Quite suddenly it came into her mind that this was the minute to tell
him.  Colin knew something new was coming
he cried eagerly.

Mary was so anxious that she got up from her stool and came to him and
caught hold of both his hands
she implored.

Her face was so solemn that he almost whispered his answer
Colin cried out in delight
Mary went on, almost pale with solemn excitement
If he had been a strong healthy boy Colin would probably have shouted
but he was weak and rather hysterical; his
eyes grew bigger and bigger and he gasped for breath
he cried out with a half sob
and he clutched her hands and
dragged her toward him
snapped Mary indignantly
And she was so un-hysterical and natural and childish that she brought
him to his senses and he began to laugh at himself and a few minutes
afterward she was sitting on her stool again telling him not what she
imagined the secret garden to be like but what it really was, and
Colin's aches and tiredness were forgotten and he was listening
enraptured
he said at last
Mary hesitated about two minutes and then boldly spoke the truth
she said
Of course Dr. Craven had been sent for the morning after Colin had had
his tantrum.  He was always sent for at once when such a thing occurred
and he always found, when he arrived, a white shaken boy lying on his
bed, sulky and still so hysterical that he was ready to break into
fresh sobbing at the least word.  In fact, Dr. Craven dreaded and
detested the difficulties of these visits.  On this occasion he was
away from Misselthwaite Manor until afternoon
he asked Mrs. Medlock rather irritably when he arrived
answered Mrs. Medlock
The scene which Dr. Craven beheld when he entered his patient's room
was indeed rather astonishing to him.  As Mrs. Medlock opened the door
he heard laughing and chattering.  Colin was on his sofa in his
dressing-gown and he was sitting up quite straight looking at a picture
in one of the garden books and talking to the plain child who at that
moment could scarcely be called plain at all because her face was so
glowing with enjoyment
Colin was
announcing
cried Mistress
Mary
Then they saw Dr. Craven and stopped.  Mary became quite still and
Colin looked fretful
Dr. Craven said a
trifle nervously.  He was rather a nervous man
Colin answered, rather like a Rajah
Dr. Craven sat down by him and felt his pulse and looked at him
curiously
he said
said the young Rajah.

As there had been occasions when this same young gentleman had shrieked
aloud with rage and had insisted that fresh air would give him cold and
kill him, it is not to be wondered at that his doctor felt somewhat
startled
he said
replied the Rajah
suggested Dr. Craven
so magnificently that Mary could not
help remembering how the young native Prince had looked with his
diamonds and emeralds and pearls stuck all over him and the great
rubies on the small dark hand he had waved to command his servants to
approach with salaams and receive his orders
Dr. Craven felt rather alarmed.  If this tiresome hysterical boy should
chance to get well he himself would lose all chance of inheriting
Misselthwaite; but he was not an unscrupulous man, though he was a weak
one, and he did not intend to let him run into actual danger
he said
Mary spoke up suddenly.  She felt somehow that everybody
who knew the moor must know Dickon.  And she was right, too.  She saw
that in a moment Dr. Craven's serious face relaxed into a relieved
smile
he said
said Mary
She had been talking Yorkshire to Colin and she forgot herself
asked Dr. Craven, laughing outright
said Mary rather coldly
he said
Colin answered
said Dr. Craven, more perplexed than ever and
glancing sideways at Mistress Mary sitting on her stool and looking
down silently at the carpet
interrupted the Rajah, appearing again
And he waved
a thin hand which ought really to have been covered with royal signet
rings made of rubies
Dr. Craven had never made such a short stay after a "tantrum"; usually
he was obliged to remain a very long time and do a great many things.
This afternoon he did not give any medicine or leave any new orders and
he was spared any disagreeable scenes.  When he went downstairs he
looked very thoughtful and when he talked to Mrs. Medlock in the
library she felt that he was a much puzzled man
she ventured
said the doctor
said Mrs. Medlock
said Dr. Craven
Mrs. Medlock smiled.  She was fond of Susan Sowerby
she went on quite volubly
When I was at school my
jography told as th' world was shaped like a orange an' I found out
before I was ten that th' whole orange doesn't belong to nobody.  No
one owns more than his bit of a quarter an' there's times it seems like
there's not enow quarters to go round.  But don't you -- none o'
you -- think as you own th' whole orange or you'll find out you're
mistaken, an' you won't find it out without hard knocks."  'What
children learns from children
is that there's no sense in
grabbin' at th' whole orange -- peel an' all.  If you do you'll likely
not get even th' pips, an
said Dr. Craven, putting on his coat
ended Mrs. Medlock, much
pleased
That night Colin slept without once awakening and when he opened his
eyes in the morning he lay still and smiled without knowing it -- smiled
because he felt so curiously comfortable.  It was actually nice to be
awake, and he turned over and stretched his limbs luxuriously.  He felt
as if tight strings which had held him had loosened themselves and let
him go.  He did not know that Dr. Craven would have said that his
nerves had relaxed and rested themselves.  Instead of lying and staring
at the wall and wishing he had not awakened, his mind was full of the
plans he and Mary had made yesterday, of pictures of the garden and of
Dickon and his wild creatures.  It was so nice to have things to think
about.  And he had not been awake more than ten minutes when he heard
feet running along the corridor and Mary was at the door.  The next
minute she was in the room and had run across to his bed, bringing with
her a waft of fresh air full of the scent of the morning
he cried.

She had been running and her hair was loose and blown and she was
bright with the air and pink-cheeked, though he could not see it
she said, a little breathless with her speed
cried Colin, and though he really knew nothing about it he
felt his heart beat.  He actually sat up in bed
he added, laughing half with joyful excitement and
half at his own fancy
And though he laughed, Mary was at the window in a moment and in a
moment more it was opened wide and freshness and softness and scents
and birds' songs were pouring through
she said
She was only repeating what Dickon had told her, but she caught Colin's
fancy
he said, and he
did as she told him, drawing in long deep breaths over and over again
until he felt that something quite new and delightful was happening to
him.

Mary was at his bedside again
she ran on in a hurry
And then she paused for breath.  The new-born lamb Dickon had found
three days before lying by its dead mother among the gorse bushes on
the moor.  It was not the first motherless lamb he had found and he
knew what to do with it.  He had taken it to the cottage wrapped in his
jacket and he had let it lie near the fire and had fed it with warm
milk.  It was a soft thing with a darling silly baby face and legs
rather long for its body.  Dickon had carried it over the moor in his
arms and its feeding bottle was in his pocket with a squirrel, and when
Mary had sat under a tree with its limp warmness huddled on her lap she
had felt as if she were too full of strange joy to speak.  A lamb -- a
lamb! A living lamb who lay on your lap like a baby!

She was describing it with great joy and Colin was listening and
drawing in long breaths of air when the nurse entered.  She started a
little at the sight of the open window.  She had sat stifling in the
room many a warm day because her patient was sure that open windows
gave people cold
she inquired
was the answer
The nurse went away, concealing a smile, to give the order for two
breakfasts.  She found the servants' hall a more amusing place than the
invalid's chamber and just now everybody wanted to hear the news from
upstairs.  There was a great deal of joking about the unpopular young
recluse who, as the cook said
The servants' hall had been very tired of the tantrums, and the
butler, who was a man with a family, had more than once expressed his
opinion that the invalid would be all the better
When Colin was on his sofa and the breakfast for two was put upon the
table he made an announcement to the nurse in his most Rajah-like
manner
he said
The nurse gave a slight gasp and tried to conceal it with a cough
she answered
added Colin, waving his hand
said the nurse
said Colin austerely
said Mary
shuddered the nurse.

They ate their breakfast with the morning air pouring in upon them.
Colin's breakfast was a very good one and Mary watched him with serious
interest
she said
said Colin
He was not long in coming.  In about ten minutes Mary held up her hand
she said
Colin listened and heard it, the oddest sound in the world to hear
inside a house, a hoarse
he answered
said Mary
cried Colin, quite flushing
said Mary
Dickon's moorland boots were thick and clumsy and though he tried to
walk quietly they made a clumping sound as he walked through the long
corridors.  Mary and Colin heard him marching -- marching, until he
passed through the tapestry door on to the soft carpet of Colin's own
passage
announced Martha, opening the door
Dickon came in smiling his nicest wide smile.  The new-born lamb was in
his arms and the little red fox trotted by his side.  Nut sat on his
left shoulder and Soot on his right and Shell's head and paws peeped
out of his coat pocket.

Colin slowly sat up and stared and stared -- as he had stared when he
first saw Mary; but this was a stare of wonder and delight.  The truth
was that in spite of all he had heard he had not in the least
understood what this boy would be like and that his fox and his crow
and his squirrels and his lamb were so near to him and his friendliness
that they seemed almost to be part of himself.  Colin had never talked
to a boy in his life and he was so overwhelmed by his own pleasure and
curiosity that he did not even think of speaking.

But Dickon did not feel the least shy or awkward.  He had not felt
embarrassed because the crow had not known his language and had only
stared and had not spoken to him the first time they met.  Creatures
were always like that until they found out about you.  He walked over
to Colin's sofa and put the new-born lamb quietly on his lap, and
immediately the little creature turned to the warm velvet dressing-gown
and began to nuzzle and nuzzle into its folds and butt its tight-curled
head with soft impatience against his side.  Of course no boy could
have helped speaking then
cried Colin
said Dickon, smiling more and more
He knelt down by the sofa and took a feeding-bottle from his pocket
he said, turning the small woolly white head
with a gentle brown hand
and
he pushed the rubber tip of the bottle into the nuzzling mouth and the
lamb began to suck it with ravenous ecstasy.

After that there was no wondering what to say.  By the time the lamb
fell asleep questions poured forth and Dickon answered them all.  He
told them how he had found the lamb just as the sun was rising three
mornings ago.  He had been standing on the moor listening to a skylark
and watching him swing higher and higher into the sky until he was only
a speck in the heights of blue
While he talked, Soot flew solemnly
in and out of the open window and cawed remarks about the scenery while
Nut and Shell made excursions into the big trees outside and ran up and
down trunks and explored branches.  Captain curled up near Dickon, who
sat on the hearth-rug from preference.

They looked at the pictures in the gardening books and Dickon knew all
the flowers by their country names and knew exactly which ones were
already growing in the secret garden
he said, pointing to one under which
was written
cried Colin
said Mary quite seriously
But they were obliged to wait more than a week because first there came
some very windy days and then Colin was threatened with a cold, which
two things happening one after the other would no doubt have thrown him
into a rage but that there was so much careful and mysterious planning
to do and almost every day Dickon came in, if only for a few minutes,
to talk about what was happening on the moor and in the lanes and
hedges and on the borders of streams.  The things he had to tell about
otters' and badgers' and water-rats' houses, not to mention birds'
nests and field-mice and their burrows, were enough to make you almost
tremble with excitement when you heard all the intimate details from an
animal charmer and realized with what thrilling eagerness and anxiety
the whole busy underworld was working
said Dickon
The most absorbing thing, however, was the preparations to be made
before Colin could be transported with sufficient secrecy to the
garden.  No one must see the chair-carriage and Dickon and Mary after
they turned a certain corner of the shrubbery and entered upon the walk
outside the ivied walls.  As each day passed, Colin had become more and
more fixed in his feeling that the mystery surrounding the garden was
one of its greatest charms.  Nothing must spoil that.  No one must ever
suspect that they had a secret.  People must think that he was simply
going out with Mary and Dickon because he liked them and did not object
to their looking at him.  They had long and quite delightful talks
about their route.  They would go up this path and down that one and
cross the other and go round among the fountain flower-beds as if they
were looking at the "bedding-out plants" the head gardener, Mr. Roach,
had been having arranged.  That would seem such a rational thing to do
that no one would think it at all mysterious.  They would turn into the
shrubbery walks and lose themselves until they came to the long walls.
It was almost as serious and elaborately thought out as the plans of
march made by great generals in time of war.

Rumors of the new and curious things which were occurring in the
invalid's apartments had of course filtered through the servants' hall
into the stable yards and out among the gardeners, but notwithstanding
this, Mr. Roach was startled one day when he received orders from
Master Colin's room to the effect that he must report himself in the
apartment no outsider had ever seen, as the invalid himself desired to
speak to him
he said to himself as he hurriedly changed his coat
Mr. Roach was not without curiosity.  He had never caught even a
glimpse of the boy and had heard a dozen exaggerated stories about his
uncanny looks and ways and his insane tempers.  The thing he had heard
oftenest was that he might die at any moment and there had been
numerous fanciful descriptions of a humped back and helpless limbs,
given by people who had never seen him
said Mrs. Medlock, as
she led him up the back staircase to the corridor on to which opened
the hitherto mysterious chamber
he answered
she continued
There really was a sort of Magic about Dickon, as Mary always privately
believed.  When Mr. Roach heard his name he smiled quite leniently
he said
It was perhaps well he had been prepared or he might have been
startled.  When the bedroom door was opened a large crow, which seemed
quite at home perched on the high back of a carven chair, announced the
entrance of a visitor by saying "Caw -- Caw" quite loudly.  In spite of
Mrs. Medlock's warning, Mr. Roach only just escaped being sufficiently
undignified to jump backward.

The young Rajah was neither in bed nor on his sofa.  He was sitting in
an armchair and a young lamb was standing by him shaking its tail in
feeding-lamb fashion as Dickon knelt giving it milk from its bottle.  A
squirrel was perched on Dickon's bent back attentively nibbling a nut.
The little girl from India was sitting on a big footstool looking on
said Mrs. Medlock.

The young Rajah turned and looked his servitor over -- at least that was
what the head gardener felt happened
he said
answered Roach, wondering if he was to receive
instructions to fell all the oaks in the park or to transform the
orchards into water-gardens
said Colin
replied Mr. Roach, much relieved to hear that the
oaks might remain and that the orchards were safe
said Colin,
turning to her
answered Mary.

The Rajah waved his hand
he said
remarked the crow hoarsely but not impolitely
said Mr. Roach, and Mrs. Medlock
took him out of the room.

Outside in the corridor, being a rather good-natured man, he smiled
until he almost laughed
he said
protested Mrs. Medlock
suggested Mr. Roach
said Mrs. Medlock
Inside the room Colin was leaning back on his cushions
he said
Dickon went back to the garden with his creatures and Mary stayed with
Colin.  She did not think he looked tired but he was very quiet before
their lunch came and he was quiet while they were eating it.  She
wondered why and asked him about it
she said
he answered
asked Mary
he said
said Mary.

Shut in and morbid as his life had been, Colin had more imagination
than she had and at least he had spent a good deal of time looking at
wonderful books and pictures
said Mary
They both laughed but it was not because the idea was laughable but
because they both so liked it.

A little later the nurse made Colin ready.  She noticed that instead of
lying like a log while his clothes were put on he sat up and made some
efforts to help himself, and he talked and laughed with Mary all the
time
she said to Dr. Craven, who
dropped in to inspect him
said
Dr. Craven
in a very low voice
answered the nurse.  With sudden firmness
said the doctor, with his
slight nervousness
The strongest footman in the house carried Colin down stairs and put
him in his wheeled chair near which Dickon waited outside.  After the
manservant had arranged his rugs and cushions the Rajah waved his hand
to him and to the nurse
he said, and they both disappeared
quickly and it must be confessed giggled when they were safely inside
the house.

Dickon began to push the wheeled chair slowly and steadily.  Mistress
Mary walked beside it and Colin leaned back and lifted his face to the
sky.  The arch of it looked very high and the small snowy clouds seemed
like white birds floating on outspread wings below its crystal
blueness.  The wind swept in soft big breaths down from the moor and
was strange with a wild clear scented sweetness.  Colin kept lifting
his thin chest to draw it in, and his big eyes looked as if it were
they which were listening -- listening, instead of his ears
he
said
answered Dickon
Not a human creature was to be caught sight of in the paths they took.
In fact every gardener or gardener's lad had been witched away.  But
they wound in and out among the shrubbery and out and round the
fountain beds, following their carefully planned route for the mere
mysterious pleasure of it.  But when at last they turned into the Long
Walk by the ivied walls the excited sense of an approaching thrill made
them, for some curious reason they could not have explained, begin to
speak in whispers
breathed Mary
cried Colin, and his eyes began to
search the ivy with eager curiousness
he
whispered
said Mary.

Then there was a lovely breathless silence and the chair wheeled on
said Mary
said Colin.

A few yards more and Mary whispered again
she said
cried Colin
said Mary with solemn delight, pointing under a big lilac
bush
Then Colin sat up
he cried, and his eyes were as big as the wolf's
in Red Riding-Hood, when Red Riding-Hood felt called upon to remark on
them.  Dickon stood still and the wheeled chair stopped
said Mary, stepping on to the bed close to the ivy
and she took hold of
the hanging green curtain
gasped Colin
And Dickon did it with one strong, steady, splendid push.

But Colin had actually dropped back against his cushions, even though
he gasped with delight, and he had covered his eyes with his hands and
held them there shutting out everything until they were inside and the
chair stopped as if by magic and the door was closed.  Not till then
did he take them away and look round and round and round as Dickon and
Mary had done.  And over walls and earth and trees and swinging sprays
and tendrils the fair green veil of tender little leaves had crept, and
in the grass under the trees and the gray urns in the alcoves and here
and there everywhere were touches or splashes of gold and purple and
white and the trees were showing pink and snow above his head and there
were fluttering of wings and faint sweet pipes and humming and scents
and scents.  And the sun fell warm upon his face like a hand with a
lovely touch.  And in wonder Mary and Dickon stood and stared at him.
He looked so strange and different because a pink glow of color had
actually crept all over him -- ivory face and neck and hands and all
he cried out
One of the strange things about living in the world is that it is only
now and then one is quite sure one is going to live forever and ever
and ever.  One knows it sometimes when one gets up at the tender solemn
dawn-time and goes out and stands alone and throws one's head far back
and looks up and up and watches the pale sky slowly changing and
flushing and marvelous unknown things happening until the East almost
makes one cry out and one's heart stands still at the strange
unchanging majesty of the rising of the sun -- which has been happening
every morning for thousands and thousands and thousands of years.  One
knows it then for a moment or so.  And one knows it sometimes when one
stands by oneself in a wood at sunset and the mysterious deep gold
stillness slanting through and under the branches seems to be saying
slowly again and again something one cannot quite hear, however much
one tries.  Then sometimes the immense quiet of the dark blue at night
with millions of stars waiting and watching makes one sure; and
sometimes a sound of far-off music makes it true; and sometimes a look
in some one's eyes.

And it was like that with Colin when he first saw and heard and felt
the Springtime inside the four high walls of a hidden garden.  That
afternoon the whole world seemed to devote itself to being perfect and
radiantly beautiful and kind to one boy.  Perhaps out of pure heavenly
goodness the spring came and crowned everything it possibly could into
that one place.  More than once Dickon paused in what he was doing and
stood still with a sort of growing wonder in his eyes, shaking his head
softly
he said
said Mary, and she sighed for mere joy
said Colin with dreamy carefulness
cried Mary admiringly
And delight reigned.  They drew the chair under the plum-tree, which
was snow-white with blossoms and musical with bees.  It was like a
king's canopy, a fairy king's. There were flowering cherry-trees near
and apple-trees whose buds were pink and white, and here and there one
had burst open wide.  Between the blossoming branches of the canopy
bits of blue sky looked down like wonderful eyes.

Mary and Dickon worked a little here and there and Colin watched them.
They brought him things to look at -- buds which were opening, buds which
were tight closed, bits of twig whose leaves were just showing green,
the feather of a woodpecker which had dropped on the grass, the empty
shell of some bird early hatched.  Dickon pushed the chair slowly round
and round the garden, stopping every other moment to let him look at
wonders springing out of the earth or trailing down from trees.  It was
like being taken in state round the country of a magic king and queen
and shown all the mysterious riches it contained
said Colin
answered Dickon
This made them giggle so delightedly that they were obliged to cover
their mouths with their hands, remembering that they must not be heard.
Colin had been instructed as to the law of whispers and low voices
several days before.  He liked the mysteriousness of it and did his
best, but in the midst of excited enjoyment it is rather difficult
never to laugh above a whisper.

Every moment of the afternoon was full of new things and every hour the
sunshine grew more golden.  The wheeled chair had been drawn back under
the canopy and Dickon had sat down on the grass and had just drawn out
his pipe when Colin saw something he had not had time to notice before
he said.  Dickon looked
across the grass at the tree and Mary looked and there was a brief
moment of stillness
answered Dickon, after it, and his low voice had a very gentle
sound.

Mary gazed at the tree and thought
Colin went on
admitted Dickon
Mary still gazed at the tree and thought
said Colin
answered Dickon
with a sudden
relieved start and laying his hand on Colin
Colin was almost too late but he just caught sight of him, the flash of
red-breasted bird with something in his beak.  He darted through the
greenness and into the close-grown corner and was out of sight.  Colin
leaned back on his cushion again, laughing a little
And so they were safe
said Mary secretly to Dickon
afterward
For both she and Dickon had been
afraid Colin might ask something about the tree whose branch had broken
off ten years ago and they had talked it over together and Dickon had
stood and rubbed his head in a troubled way
he had
said
had answered Mary.

But she had not felt as if she looked cheerful when she gazed at the
tree.  She wondered and wondered in those few moments if there was any
reality in that other thing Dickon had said.  He had gone on rubbing
his rust-red hair in a puzzled way, but a nice comforted look had begun
to grow in his blue eyes
he had gone on rather
hesitatingly
Mary had thought he meant something about Magic.  She was a great
believer in Magic.  Secretly she quite believed that Dickon worked
Magic, of course good Magic, on everything near him and that was why
people liked him so much and wild creatures knew he was their friend.
She wondered, indeed, if it were not possible that his gift had brought
the robin just at the right moment when Colin asked that dangerous
question.  She felt that his Magic was working all the afternoon and
making Colin look like an entirely different boy.  It did not seem
possible that he could be the crazy creature who had screamed and
beaten and bitten his pillow.  Even his ivory whiteness seemed to
change.  The faint glow of color which had shown on his face and neck
and hands when he first got inside the garden really never quite died
away.  He looked as if he were made of flesh instead of ivory or wax.

They saw the robin carry food to his mate two or three times, and it
was so suggestive of afternoon tea that Colin felt they must have some
he said
It was an agreeable idea, easily carried out, and when the white cloth
was spread upon the grass, with hot tea and buttered toast and
crumpets, a delightfully hungry meal was eaten, and several birds on
domestic errands paused to inquire what was going on and were led into
investigating crumbs with great activity.  Nut and Shell whisked up
trees with pieces of cake and Soot took the entire half of a buttered
crumpet into a corner and pecked at and examined and turned it over and
made hoarse remarks about it until he decided to swallow it all
joyfully in one gulp.

The afternoon was dragging towards its mellow hour.  The sun was
deepening the gold of its lances, the bees were going home and the
birds were flying past less often.  Dickon and Mary were sitting on the
grass, the tea-basket was repacked ready to be taken back to the house,
and Colin was lying against his cushions with his heavy locks pushed
back from his forehead and his face looking quite a natural color
he said
said Mary
he answered
said Dickon
Colin flushed tremendously
he said
Dickon's glance at him was delicately cautious.  Neither he nor Mary
had ever asked if anything was the matter with his legs
he said stoutly
Mary was rather frightened until she heard Colin's answer
he said
Both Mary and Dickon drew a relieved breath
Dickon said with
renewed cheer
said Colin, and he lay still as if he were wondering about
things.

They were really very quiet for a little while.  The sun was dropping
lower.  It was that hour when everything stills itself, and they really
had had a busy and exciting afternoon.  Colin looked as if he were
resting luxuriously.  Even the creatures had ceased moving about and
had drawn together and were resting near them.  Soot had perched on a
low branch and drawn up one leg and dropped the gray film drowsily over
his eyes.  Mary privately thought he looked as if he might snore in a
minute.

In the midst of this stillness it was rather startling when Colin half
lifted his head and exclaimed in a loud suddenly alarmed whisper
Dickon and Mary scrambled to their feet
they both cried in low quick voices.

Colin pointed to the high wall
he whispered excitedly
Mary and Dickon wheeled about and looked.  There was Ben Weatherstaff's
indignant face glaring at them over the wall from the top of a ladder!
He actually shook his fist at Mary
he cried
He mounted another step threateningly as if it were his energetic
intention to jump down and deal with her; but as she came toward him he
evidently thought better of it and stood on the top step of his ladder
shaking his fist down at her
he harangued
called out Mary, finding her breath.  She stood
below him and called up to him with a sort of gasp
Then it did seem as if Ben really would scramble down on her side of
the wall, he was so outraged
he called down at her
she could see his next words burst
out because he was overpowered by curiosity
she protested obstinately
He stopped shaking his fist very suddenly at that very moment and his
jaw actually dropped as he stared over her head at something he saw
coming over the grass toward him.

At the first sound of his torrent of words Colin had been so surprised
that he had only sat up and listened as if he were spellbound.  But in
the midst of it he had recovered himself and beckoned imperiously to
Dickon
he commanded
And this, if you please, this is what Ben Weatherstaff beheld and which
made his jaw drop.  A wheeled chair with luxurious cushions and robes
which came toward him looking rather like some sort of State Coach
because a young Rajah leaned back in it with royal command in his great
black-rimmed eyes and a thin white hand extended haughtily toward him.
And it stopped right under Ben Weatherstaff's nose.  It was really no
wonder his mouth dropped open
demanded the Rajah.

How Ben Weatherstaff stared! His red old eyes fixed themselves on what
was before him as if he were seeing a ghost.  He gazed and gazed and
gulped a lump down his throat and did not say a word
demanded Colin still more imperiously
Ben Weatherstaff put his gnarled hand up and passed it over his eyes
and over his forehead and then he did answer in a queer shaky voice
he said
Colin forgot that he had ever had a back.  His face flushed scarlet and
he sat bolt upright
he cried out furiously
cried Mary, almost shouting up the wall in her fierce
indignation
Ben Weatherstaff passed his hand over his forehead again and gazed as
if he could never gaze enough.  His hand shook and his mouth shook and
his voice shook.  He was an ignorant old man and a tactless old man and
he could only remember the things he had heard
he said hoarsely
shouted Colin
quavered Ben more hoarsely yet.
It was too much.  The strength which Colin usually threw into his
tantrums rushed through him now in a new way.  Never yet had he been
accused of crooked legs -- even in whispers -- and the perfectly simple
belief in their existence which was revealed by Ben Weatherstaff's
voice was more than Rajah flesh and blood could endure.  His anger and
insulted pride made him forget everything but this one moment and
filled him with a power he had never known before, an almost unnatural
strength
he shouted to Dickon, and he actually began to tear the
coverings off his lower limbs and disentangle himself
Dickon was by his side in a second.  Mary caught her breath in a short
gasp and felt herself turn pale
she gabbled over to
herself under her breath as fast as ever she could.

There was a brief fierce scramble, the rugs were tossed on the ground,
Dickon held Colin's arm, the thin legs were out, the thin feet were on
the grass.  Colin was standing upright -- upright -- as straight as an
arrow and looking strangely tall -- his head thrown back and his strange
eyes flashing lightning
he flung up at Ben
Weatherstaff
cried Dickon
What Ben Weatherstaff did Mary thought queer beyond measure.  He choked
and gulped and suddenly tears ran down his weather-wrinkled cheeks as
he struck his old hands together
he burst forth
Dickon held Colin's arm strongly but the boy had not begun to falter.
He stood straighter and straighter and looked Ben Weatherstaff in the
face
he said
Ben Weatherstaff's crabbed old face was still wet with that one queer
rush of tears.  It seemed as if he could not take his eyes from thin
straight Colin standing on his feet with his head thrown back
he almost whispered
And then remembering
himself he suddenly touched his hat gardener fashion and said
and obediently disappeared as he descended the ladder
When his head was out of sight Colin turned to Mary
he said; and Mary flew across the grass to the door
under the ivy.

Dickon was watching him with sharp eyes.  There were scarlet spots on
his cheeks and he looked amazing, but he showed no signs of falling
he said, and his head was still held up and he said it
quite grandly
answered
Dickon
said Colin.

Then suddenly he remembered something Mary had said
he asked sharply.

Dickon's curly mouth spread in a cheerful grin
he said
and he touched with his thick boot a clump
of crocuses in the grass.  Colin looked down at them
he said slowly
He drew himself up straighter than ever
he said, pointing to one a few feet
away from him
He walked to the tree and though Dickon held his arm he was wonderfully
steady.  When he stood against the tree trunk it was not too plain that
he supported himself against it, and he still held himself so straight
that he looked tall.

When Ben Weatherstaff came through the door in the wall he saw him
standing there and he heard Mary muttering something under her breath
he asked rather testily because he did not want his
attention distracted from the long thin straight boy figure and proud
face.

But she did not tell him.  What she was saying was this
She was saying it to Colin because she wanted
to make Magic and keep him on his feet looking like that.  She could
not bear that he should give in before Ben Weatherstaff.  He did not
give in.  She was uplifted by a sudden feeling that he looked quite
beautiful in spite of his thinness.  He fixed his eyes on Ben
Weatherstaff in his funny imperious way
he commanded
Ben Weatherstaff had not quite got over his emotion, but he had
recovered a little and answered almost in his usual way
he said
said Colin angrily
said Ben
said Colin shortly
And he said it with such decision Ben Weatherstaff looked him over, up
and down, down and up
he said with dry exultation
There was a queer mixture of crabbed tenderness and shrewd
understanding in his manner.  Mary had poured out speech as rapidly as
she could as they had come down the Long Walk.  The chief thing to be
remembered, she had told him, was that Colin was getting well -- getting
well.  The garden was doing it.  No one must let him remember about
having humps and dying.

The Rajah condescended to seat himself on a rug under the tree
he inquired
answered old Ben
said Colin
answered Ben Weatherstaff
said Colin, and he looked about him quietly
and Ben Weatherstaff looked about him too
announced Colin
Ben Weatherstaff's face twisted itself in a dry old smile
he said
exclaimed Colin
rubbing his chin and looking round
cried Colin
said old Ben dryly
cried Dickon
said Ben Weatherstaff slowly
with grumpy obstinacy
said
Dickon
said Colin
answered Ben
On the grass near the tree Mary had dropped her trowel.  Colin
stretched out his hand and took it up.  An odd expression came into his
face and he began to scratch at the earth.  His thin hand was weak
enough but presently as they watched him -- Mary with quite breathless
interest -- he drove the end of the trowel into the soil and turned some
over
said Mary to herself
Dickon's round eyes were full of eager curiousness but he said not a
word.  Ben Weatherstaff looked on with interested face.

Colin persevered.  After he had turned a few trowelfuls of soil he
spoke exultantly to Dickon in his best Yorkshire
Ben Weatherstaff's mouth fell open again when he heard him, but he
ended by chuckling
he said
said Colin, digging excitedly
It was done quickly enough indeed.  Ben Weatherstaff went his way
forgetting rheumatics.  Dickon took his spade and dug the hole deeper
and wider than a new digger with thin white hands could make it.  Mary
slipped out to run and bring back a watering-can. When Dickon had
deepened the hole Colin went on turning the soft earth over and over.
He looked up at the sky, flushed and glowing with the strangely new
exercise, slight as it was
he said.

Mary thought that perhaps the sun held back a few minutes just on
purpose.  Ben Weatherstaff brought the rose in its pot from the
greenhouse.  He hobbled over the grass as fast as he could.  He had
begun to be excited, too.  He knelt down by the hole and broke the pot
from the mould
he said, handing the plant to Colin
The thin white hands shook a little and Colin's flush grew deeper as he
set the rose in the mould and held it while old Ben made firm the
earth.  It was filled in and pressed down and made steady.  Mary was
leaning forward on her hands and knees.  Soot had flown down and
marched forward to see what was being done.  Nut and Shell chattered
about it from a cherry-tree
said Colin at last
And Dickon helped him, and the Magic -- or whatever it was -- so gave him
strength that when the sun did slip over the edge and end the strange
lovely afternoon for them there he actually stood on his two
feet -- laughing
Dr. Craven had been waiting some time at the house when they returned
to it.  He had indeed begun to wonder if it might not be wise to send
some one out to explore the garden paths.  When Colin was brought back
to his room the poor man looked him over seriously
he said
said Colin
answered Dr. Craven
said Colin quite seriously
Even Mary had found out that one of Colin's chief peculiarities was
that he did not know in the least what a rude little brute he was with
his way of ordering people about.  He had lived on a sort of desert
island all his life and as he had been the king of it he had made his
own manners and had had no one to compare himself with.  Mary had
indeed been rather like him herself and since she had been at
Misselthwaite had gradually discovered that her own manners had not
been of the kind which is usual or popular.  Having made this discovery
she naturally thought it of enough interest to communicate to Colin.
So she sat and looked at him curiously for a few minutes after Dr.
Craven had gone.  She wanted to make him ask her why she was doing it
and of course she did
he said
said Colin calmly, but not without an air of some
satisfaction
said Mary
Colin inquired undisturbedly
said Mary
said Colin
answered Mistress Mary, thinking the thing out quite
without prejudice
announced Colin stubbornly
Mary
went on, thinking aloud.

Colin turned his head, frowning
he demanded
answered Mary
she added
impartially
said Colin
and he
frowned again with determination.

He was a very proud boy.  He lay thinking for a while and then Mary saw
his beautiful smile begin and gradually change his whole face
he said
said Mary
Colin said
said Mary
They always called it Magic and indeed it seemed like it in the months
that followed -- the wonderful months -- the radiant months -- the amazing
ones.  Oh! the things which happened in that garden! If you have never
had a garden you cannot understand, and if you have had a garden you
will know that it would take a whole book to describe all that came to
pass there.  At first it seemed that green things would never cease
pushing their way through the earth, in the grass, in the beds, even in
the crevices of the walls.  Then the green things began to show buds
and the buds began to unfurl and show color, every shade of blue, every
shade of purple, every tint and hue of crimson.  In its happy days
flowers had been tucked away into every inch and hole and corner.  Ben
Weatherstaff had seen it done and had himself scraped out mortar from
between the bricks of the wall and made pockets of earth for lovely
clinging things to grow on.  Iris and white lilies rose out of the
grass in sheaves, and the green alcoves filled themselves with amazing
armies of the blue and white flower lances of tall delphiniums or
columbines or campanulas
Ben Weatherstaff said
The seeds Dickon and Mary had planted grew as if fairies had tended
them.  Satiny poppies of all tints danced in the breeze by the score,
gaily defying flowers which had lived in the garden for years and which
it might be confessed seemed rather to wonder how such new people had
got there.  And the roses -- the roses! Rising out of the grass, tangled
round the sun-dial, wreathing the tree trunks and hanging from their
branches, climbing up the walls and spreading over them with long
garlands falling in cascades -- they came alive day by day, hour by hour.
Fair fresh leaves, and buds -- and buds -- tiny at first but swelling and
working Magic until they burst and uncurled into cups of scent
delicately spilling themselves over their brims and filling the garden
air.

Colin saw it all, watching each change as it took place.  Every morning
he was brought out and every hour of each day when it didn't rain he
spent in the garden.  Even gray days pleased him.  He would lie on the
grass
he said.  If you watched long enough,
he declared, you could see buds unsheath themselves.  Also you could
make the acquaintance of strange busy insect things running about on
various unknown but evidently serious errands, sometimes carrying tiny
scraps of straw or feather or food, or climbing blades of grass as if
they were trees from whose tops one could look out to explore the
country.  A mole throwing up its mound at the end of its burrow and
making its way out at last with the long-nailed paws which looked so
like elfish hands, had absorbed him one whole morning.  Ants' ways,
beetles' ways, bees' ways, frogs' ways, birds' ways, plants' ways, gave
him a new world to explore and when Dickon revealed them all and added
foxes' ways, otters' ways, ferrets' ways, squirrels' ways, and trout'
and water-rats' and badgers' ways, there was no end to the things to
talk about and think over.

And this was not the half of the Magic.  The fact that he had really
once stood on his feet had set Colin thinking tremendously and when
Mary told him of the spell she had worked he was excited and approved
of it greatly.  He talked of it constantly
he said wisely
one day
The next morning when they went to the secret garden he sent at once
for Ben Weatherstaff.  Ben came as quickly as he could and found the
Rajah standing on his feet under a tree and looking very grand but also
very beautifully smiling
he said
answered Ben Weatherstaff, touching his forehead.
(One of the long concealed charms of Ben Weatherstaff was that in his
boyhood he had once run away to sea and had made voyages.  So he could
reply like a sailor
explained the Rajah
said Ben Weatherstaff promptly, though this was the
first time he had heard of great scientific discoveries.

It was the first time Mary had heard of them, either, but even at this
stage she had begun to realize that, queer as he was, Colin had read
about a great many singular things and was somehow a very convincing
sort of boy.  When he held up his head and fixed his strange eyes on
you it seemed as if you believed him almost in spite of yourself though
he was only ten years old -- going on eleven.  At this moment he was
especially convincing because he suddenly felt the fascination of
actually making a sort of speech like a grown-up person
he went on
This sounded so imposing that Ben Weatherstaff became quite excited and
really could not keep still
he said and he began to
stand up quite straight
the orator
proceeded
said Ben Weatherstaff
said Mary
said Ben Weatherstaff dryly
Colin drew his brows together and thought a few minutes.  Then he
cheered up
he said
Ben Weatherstaff chuckled and there was shrewd admiration in his little
old eyes
he said
Dickon had stood listening to the lecture, his round eyes shining with
curious delight.  Nut and Shell were on his shoulders and he held a
long-eared white rabbit in his arm and stroked and stroked it softly
while it laid its ears along its back and enjoyed itself
Colin asked him, wondering
what he was thinking.  He so often wondered what Dickon was thinking
when he saw him looking at him or at one of his "creatures" with his
happy wide smile.

He smiled now and his smile was wider than usual
he answered
Colin was delighted and so was Mary.  Fired by recollections of fakirs
and devotees in illustrations Colin suggested that they should all sit
cross-legged under the tree which made a canopy
said Colin
said Dickon
Colin turned and looked at him -- into his innocent round eyes
he said slowly
It
all seemed most majestic and mysterious when they sat down in their
circle.  Ben Weatherstaff felt as if he had somehow been led into
appearing at a prayer-meeting. Ordinarily he was very fixed in being
what he called "agen' prayer-meetin's" but this being the Rajah's
affair he did not resent it and was indeed inclined to be gratified at
being called upon to assist.  Mistress Mary felt solemnly enraptured.
Dickon held his rabbit in his arm, and perhaps he made some charmer's
signal no one heard, for when he sat down, cross-legged like the rest,
the crow, the fox, the squirrels and the lamb slowly drew near and made
part of the circle, settling each into a place of rest as if of their
own desire
said Colin gravely
Colin really looked quite beautiful, Mary thought.  He held his head
high as if he felt like a sort of priest and his strange eyes had a
wonderful look in them.  The light shone on him through the tree canopy
he said
said Ben Weatherstaff
said Colin in a High Priest tone
said Ben Weatherstaff a trifle testily
No one smiled.  They were all too much in earnest.  Colin's face was
not even crossed by a shadow.  He was thinking only of the Magic
he said.  And he began, looking like a strange boy
spirit
He said it a great many times -- not a thousand times but quite a goodly
number.  Mary listened entranced.  She felt as if it were at once queer
and beautiful and she wanted him to go on and on.  Ben Weatherstaff
began to feel soothed into a sort of dream which was quite agreeable.
The humming of the bees in the blossoms mingled with the chanting voice
and drowsily melted into a doze.  Dickon sat cross-legged with his
rabbit asleep on his arm and a hand resting on the lamb's back.  Soot
had pushed away a squirrel and huddled close to him on his shoulder,
the gray film dropped over his eyes.  At last Colin stopped
he announced.

Ben Weatherstaff's head had just dropped forward and he lifted it with
a jerk
said Colin
mumbled Ben
He was not quite awake yet
said Colin
said Ben, straightening himself
The Rajah waved his hand
he said
grunted Ben.

It was not an unfriendly grunt, but it was a grunt.  In fact, being a
stubborn old party and not having entire faith in Magic he had made up
his mind that if he were sent away he would climb his ladder and look
over the wall so that he might be ready to hobble back if there were
any stumbling.

The Rajah did not object to his staying and so the procession was
formed.  It really did look like a procession.  Colin was at its head
with Dickon on one side and Mary on the other.  Ben Weatherstaff walked
behind, and the "creatures" trailed after them, the lamb and the fox
cub keeping close to Dickon, the white rabbit hopping along or stopping
to nibble and Soot following with the solemnity of a person who felt
himself in charge.

It was a procession which moved slowly but with dignity.  Every few
yards it stopped to rest.  Colin leaned on Dickon's arm and privately
Ben Weatherstaff kept a sharp lookout, but now and then Colin took his
hand from its support and walked a few steps alone.  His head was held
up all the time and he looked very grand
he kept saying
It seemed very certain that something was upholding and uplifting him.
He sat on the seats in the alcoves, and once or twice he sat down on
the grass and several times he paused in the path and leaned on Dickon,
but he would not give up until he had gone all round the garden.  When
he returned to the canopy tree his cheeks were flushed and he looked
triumphant
he cried
broke out Mary
Colin answered
cried Mary
Colin flushed triumphantly.  He had made himself believe that he was
going to get well, which was really more than half the battle, if he
had been aware of it.  And the thought which stimulated him more than
any other was this imagining what his father would look like when he
saw that he had a son who was as straight and strong as other fathers'
sons.  One of his darkest miseries in the unhealthy morbid past days
had been his hatred of being a sickly weak-backed boy whose father was
afraid to look at him
he said
said Ben
Weatherstaff
Colin fixed his eyes on him sternly
he said
answered Ben, touching his forehead in
salute
but his eyes
twinkled and secretly he was immensely pleased.  He really did not mind
being snubbed since the snubbing meant that the lad was gaining
strength and spirit
The secret garden was not the only one Dickon worked in.  Round the
cottage on the moor there was a piece of ground enclosed by a low wall
of rough stones.  Early in the morning and late in the fading twilight
and on all the days Colin and Mary did not see him, Dickon worked there
planting or tending potatoes and cabbages, turnips and carrots and
herbs for his mother.  In the company of his "creatures" he did wonders
there and was never tired of doing them, it seemed.  While he dug or
weeded he whistled or sang bits of Yorkshire moor songs or talked to
Soot or Captain or the brothers and sisters he had taught to help him
Mrs. Sowerby said
When she found a moment to spare she liked to go out and talk to him.
After supper there was still a long clear twilight to work in and that
was her quiet time.  She could sit upon the low rough wall and look on
and hear stories of the day.  She loved this time.  There were not only
vegetables in this garden.  Dickon had bought penny packages of flower
seeds now and then and sown bright sweet-scented things among
gooseberry bushes and even cabbages and he grew borders of mignonette
and pinks and pansies and things whose seeds he could save year after
year or whose roots would bloom each spring and spread in time into
fine clumps.  The low wall was one of the prettiest things in Yorkshire
because he had tucked moorland foxglove and ferns and rock-cress and
hedgerow flowers into every crevice until only here and there glimpses
of the stones were to be seen
he would say
It was in these twilight hours that Mrs. Sowerby heard of all that
happened at Misselthwaite Manor.  At first she was only told that
"Mester Colin" had taken a fancy to going out into the grounds with
Miss Mary and that it was doing him good.  But it was not long before
it was agreed between the two children that Dickon's mother might
Somehow it was not doubted that she was
So one beautiful still evening Dickon told the whole story, with all
the thrilling details of the buried key and the robin and the gray haze
which had seemed like deadness and the secret Mistress Mary had planned
never to reveal.  The coming of Dickon and how it had been told to him,
the doubt of Mester Colin and the final drama of his introduction to
the hidden domain, combined with the incident of Ben Weatherstaff's
angry face peering over the wall and Mester Colin's sudden indignant
strength, made Mrs. Sowerby's nice-looking face quite change color
several times
she said
She asked a great many questions and her blue eyes were full of deep
thinking
she inquired
answered Dickon
with a
highly entertained grin
asked Mrs. Sowerby.

Dickon chuckled
Mrs. Sowerby was laughing a low comfortable laugh long before he had
finished his last sentence
she said
Dickon stopped weeding and sat up on his heels to tell her.  His eyes
were twinkling with fun
he
explained
said Mrs. Sowerby, still
laughing herself
said Dickon
Mrs. Sowerby laughed so heartily at the revelation of this difficulty
that she quite rocked backward and forward in her blue cloak, and
Dickon laughed with her
Mrs. Sowerby said when she could speak
said Dickon admiringly
said Mrs. Sowerby.  Then she smiled Dickon's own curving
smile
she said.

She was quite right, the comfortable wonderful mother creature -- and she
had never been more so than when she said their
would be
their joy.  Colin and Mary found it one of their most thrilling sources
of entertainment.  The idea of protecting themselves from suspicion had
been unconsciously suggested to them first by the puzzled nurse and
then by Dr. Craven himself
the nurse had
said one day
replied Colin, and then seeing the
nurse looking at him curiously he suddenly remembered that perhaps he
ought not to appear too well just yet
said the nurse, still looking at him with a mystified
expression
said Mary when she went away
said Colin
When Dr. Craven came that morning he seemed puzzled,
also.  He asked a number of questions, to Colin's great annoyance
he suggested
Colin put on his favorite air of dignified indifference to opinion
he answered
said Colin, prompted by a sudden inspiration
said Dr.
Craven
said Colin, assuming a
discouraging air of gloom
Dr. Craven shook his head.  He was holding Colin's
wrist and he pushed up his sleeve and felt his arm
he said thoughtfully
Colin broke forth fiercely
Dr. Craven soothed him
He said no more about writing to Mr. Craven and when he saw the nurse
he privately warned her that such a possibility must not be mentioned
to the patient
he said
Mary and Colin were
much alarmed and talked together anxiously.  From this time dated their
plan of
said Colin regretfully
He made up his mind to eat less, but unfortunately it was not possible
to carry out this brilliant idea when he wakened each morning with an
amazing appetite and the table near his sofa was set with a breakfast
of home-made bread and fresh butter, snow-white eggs, raspberry jam and
clotted cream.  Mary always breakfasted with him and when they found
themselves at the table -- particularly if there were delicate slices of
sizzling ham sending forth tempting odors from under a hot silver
cover -- they would look into each other's eyes in desperation
Colin always
ended by saying
But they never found they could send away anything and the highly
polished condition of the empty plates returned to the pantry awakened
much comment
Colin would say also
answered Mary when
first she heard this
The morning that Dickon -- after they had been enjoying themselves in the
garden for about two hours -- went behind a big rosebush and brought
forth two tin pails and revealed that one was full of rich new milk
with cream on the top of it, and that the other held cottage-made
currant buns folded in a clean blue and white napkin, buns so carefully
tucked in that they were still hot, there was a riot of surprised
joyfulness.  What a wonderful thing for Mrs. Sowerby to think of! What
a kind, clever woman she must be! How good the buns were! And what
delicious fresh milk
said Colin
He was given to using
rather grown-up phrases at times.  He enjoyed them.  He liked this so
much that he improved upon it
And then forgetting his grandeur he fell to and stuffed himself with
buns and drank milk out of the pail in copious draughts in the manner
of any hungry little boy who had been taking unusual exercise and
breathing in moorland air and whose breakfast was more than two hours
behind him.

This was the beginning of many agreeable incidents of the same kind.
They actually awoke to the fact that as Mrs. Sowerby had fourteen
people to provide food for she might not have enough to satisfy two
extra appetites every day.  So they asked her to let them send some of
their shillings to buy things.

Dickon made the stimulating discovery that in the wood in the park
outside the garden where Mary had first found him piping to the wild
creatures there was a deep little hollow where you could build a sort
of tiny oven with stones and roast potatoes and eggs in it.  Roasted
eggs were a previously unknown luxury and very hot potatoes with salt
and fresh butter in them were fit for a woodland king -- besides being
deliciously satisfying.  You could buy both potatoes and eggs and eat
as many as you liked without feeling as if you were taking food out of
the mouths of fourteen people.

Every beautiful morning the Magic was worked by the mystic circle under
the plum-tree which provided a canopy of thickening green leaves after
its brief blossom-time was ended.  After the ceremony Colin always took
his walking exercise and throughout the day he exercised his newly
found power at intervals.  Each day he grew stronger and could walk
more steadily and cover more ground.  And each day his belief in the
Magic grew stronger -- as well it might.  He tried one experiment after
another as he felt himself gaining strength and it was Dickon who
showed him the best things of all
he said one morning after an absence
Colin had been listening excitedly
he cried
Dickon answered, getting up
said Colin
Dickon stood up on the grass and slowly went through a carefully
practical but simple series of muscle exercises.  Colin watched them
with widening eyes.  He could do a few while he was sitting down.
Presently he did a few gently while he stood upon his already steadied
feet.  Mary began to do them also.  Soot, who was watching the
performance, became much disturbed and left his branch and hopped about
restlessly because he could not do them too.

From that time the exercises were part of the day's duties as much as
the Magic was.  It became possible for both Colin and Mary to do more
of them each time they tried, and such appetites were the results that
but for the basket Dickon put down behind the bush each morning when he
arrived they would have been lost.  But the little oven in the hollow
and Mrs. Sowerby's bounties were so satisfying that Mrs. Medlock and
the nurse and Dr. Craven became mystified again.  You can trifle with
your breakfast and seem to disdain your dinner if you are full to the
brim with roasted eggs and potatoes and richly frothed new milk and
oatcakes and buns and heather honey and clotted cream
said the nurse
exclaimed Mrs. Medlock indignantly
Dr. Craven came and looked at Colin long and carefully, He wore an
extremely worried expression when the nurse talked with him and showed
him the almost untouched tray of breakfast she had saved for him to
look at -- but it was even more worried when he sat down by Colin's sofa
and examined him.  He had been called to London on business and had not
seen the boy for nearly two weeks.  When young things begin to gain
health they gain it rapidly.  The waxen tinge had left, Colins skin and
a warm rose showed through it; his beautiful eyes were clear and the
hollows under them and in his cheeks and temples had filled out.  His
once dark, heavy locks had begun to look as if they sprang healthily
from his forehead and were soft and warm with life.  His lips were
fuller and of a normal color.  In fact as an imitation of a boy who was
a confirmed invalid he was a disgraceful sight.  Dr. Craven held his
chin in his hand and thought him over
he said
answered Colin.

Mary was sitting on her stool nearby and she suddenly made a very queer
sound which she tried so violently to repress that she ended by almost
choking
said Dr. Craven, turning to look at her.

Mary became quite severe in her manner
she replied with
reproachful dignity
she said afterward to Colin
Dr.
Craven inquired of Mrs. Medlock
Mrs. Medlock answered
said Dr. Craven
said Mrs. Medlock
said Dr. Craven
And the secret garden bloomed and bloomed and every morning revealed
new miracles.  In the robin's nest there were Eggs and the robin's mate
sat upon them keeping them warm with her feathery little breast and
careful wings.  At first she was very nervous and the robin himself was
indignantly watchful.  Even Dickon did not go near the close-grown
corner in those days, but waited until by the quiet working of some
mysterious spell he seemed to have conveyed to the soul of the little
pair that in the garden there was nothing which was not quite like
themselves -- nothing which did not understand the wonderfulness of what
was happening to them -- the immense, tender, terrible, heart-breaking
beauty and solemnity of Eggs.  If there had been one person in that
garden who had not known through all his or her innermost being that if
an Egg were taken away or hurt the whole world would whirl round and
crash through space and come to an end -- if there had been even one who
did not feel it and act accordingly there could have been no happiness
even in that golden springtime air.  But they all knew it and felt it
and the robin and his mate knew they knew it.

At first the robin watched Mary and Colin with sharp anxiety.  For some
mysterious reason he knew he need not watch Dickon.  The first moment
he set his dew-bright black eye on Dickon he knew he was not a stranger
but a sort of robin without beak or feathers.  He could speak robin
(which is a quite distinct language not to be mistaken for any other).
To speak robin to a robin is like speaking French to a Frenchman.
Dickon always spoke it to the robin himself, so the queer gibberish he
used when he spoke to humans did not matter in the least.  The robin
thought he spoke this gibberish to them because they were not
intelligent enough to understand feathered speech.  His movements also
were robin.  They never startled one by being sudden enough to seem
dangerous or threatening.  Any robin could understand Dickon, so his
presence was not even disturbing.

But at the outset it seemed necessary to be on guard against the other
two.  In the first place the boy creature did not come into the garden
on his legs.  He was pushed in on a thing with wheels and the skins of
wild animals were thrown over him.  That in itself was doubtful.  Then
when he began to stand up and move about he did it in a queer
unaccustomed way and the others seemed to have to help him.  The robin
used to secrete himself in a bush and watch this anxiously, his head
tilted first on one side and then on the other.  He thought that the
slow movements might mean that he was preparing to pounce, as cats do.
When cats are preparing to pounce they creep over the ground very
slowly.  The robin talked this over with his mate a great deal for a
few days but after that he decided not to speak of the subject because
her terror was so great that he was afraid it might be injurious to the
Eggs.

When the boy began to walk by himself and even to move more quickly it
was an immense relief.  But for a long time -- or it seemed a long time
to the robin -- he was a source of some anxiety.  He did not act as the
other humans did.  He seemed very fond of walking but he had a way of
sitting or lying down for a while and then getting up in a
disconcerting manner to begin again.

One day the robin remembered that when he himself had been made to
learn to fly by his parents he had done much the same sort of thing.
He had taken short flights of a few yards and then had been obliged to
rest.  So it occurred to him that this boy was learning to fly -- or
rather to walk.  He mentioned this to his mate and when he told her
that the Eggs would probably conduct themselves in the same way after
they were fledged she was quite comforted and even became eagerly
interested and derived great pleasure from watching the boy over the
edge of her nest -- though she always thought that the Eggs would be much
cleverer and learn more quickly.  But then she said indulgently that
humans were always more clumsy and slow than Eggs and most of them
never seemed really to learn to fly at all.  You never met them in the
air or on tree-tops.

After a while the boy began to move about as the others did, but all
three of the children at times did unusual things.  They would stand
under the trees and move their arms and legs and heads about in a way
which was neither walking nor running nor sitting down.  They went
through these movements at intervals every day and the robin was never
able to explain to his mate what they were doing or tying to do.  He
could only say that he was sure that the Eggs would never flap about in
such a manner; but as the boy who could speak robin so fluently was
doing the thing with them, birds could be quite sure that the actions
were not of a dangerous nature.  Of course neither the robin nor his
mate had ever heard of the champion wrestler, Bob Haworth, and his
exercises for making the muscles stand out like lumps.  Robins are not
like human beings; their muscles are always exercised from the first
and so they develop themselves in a natural manner.  If you have to fly
about to find every meal you eat, your muscles do not become atrophied
(atrophied means wasted away through want of use).

When the boy was walking and running about and digging and weeding like
the others, the nest in the corner was brooded over by a great peace
and content.  Fears for the Eggs became things of the past.  Knowing
that your Eggs were as safe as if they were locked in a bank vault and
the fact that you could watch so many curious things going on made
setting a most entertaining occupation.  On wet days the Eggs' mother
sometimes felt even a little dull because the children did not come
into the garden.

But even on wet days it could not be said that Mary and Colin were
dull.  One morning when the rain streamed down unceasingly and Colin
was beginning to feel a little restive, as he was obliged to remain on
his sofa because it was not safe to get up and walk about, Mary had an
inspiration
Colin had said
Mary giggled inordinately
she said.

Colin giggled himself.  He could see how they would all look -- how
horrified by his outbreak and how amazed to see him standing upright
he said
It was then Mistress Mary had her inspiration
she began mysteriously
he answered
said Mary
Colin started up on his sofa
he said
said Mary
said Colin.

When the nurse came in he gave his orders
he said
Rainy days lost their terrors that morning.  When the footman had
wheeled the chair into the picture-gallery and left the two together in
obedience to orders, Colin and Mary looked at each other delighted.  As
soon as Mary had made sure that John was really on his way back to his
own quarters below stairs, Colin got out of his chair
he said
And they did all these things and many others.  They looked at the
portraits and found the plain little girl dressed in green brocade and
holding the parrot on her finger
said Colin
said Mary, and they both laughed.

They went to the Indian room and amused themselves with the ivory
elephants.  They found the rose-colored brocade boudoir and the hole in
the cushion the mouse had left, but the mice had grown up and run away
and the hole was empty.  They saw more rooms and made more discoveries
than Mary had made on her first pilgrimage.  They found new corridors
and corners and flights of steps and new old pictures they liked and
weird old things they did not know the use of.  It was a curiously
entertaining morning and the feeling of wandering about in the same
house with other people but at the same time feeling as if one were
miles away from them was a fascinating thing
Colin said
That morning they had found among other things such good appetites that
when they returned to Colin's room it was not possible to send the
luncheon away untouched.

When the nurse carried the tray down-stairs she slapped it down on the
kitchen dresser so that Mrs. Loomis, the cook, could see the highly
polished dishes and plates
she said
said the strong young footman John
That afternoon Mary noticed that something new had happened in Colin's
room.  She had noticed it the day before but had said nothing because
she thought the change might have been made by chance.  She said
nothing today but she sat and looked fixedly at the picture over the
mantel.  She could look at it because the curtain had been drawn aside.
That was the change she noticed
said Colin, after she had stared
a few minutes
asked Mary
said Mary
That idea seemed to impress Colin.  He thought it over and then
answered her slowly
inquired Mary
Their belief in the Magic was an abiding thing.  After the morning's
incantations Colin sometimes gave them Magic lectures
he explained
said Ben
But when Colin held forth under his tree old Ben fixed devouring eyes
on him and kept them there.  He looked him over with critical
affection.  It was not so much the lecture which interested him as the
legs which looked straighter and stronger each day, the boyish head
which held itself up so well, the once sharp chin and hollow cheeks
which had filled and rounded out and the eyes which had begun to hold
the light he remembered in another pair.  Sometimes when Colin felt
Ben's earnest gaze meant that he was much impressed he wondered what he
was reflecting on and once when he had seemed quite entranced he
questioned him
he asked
answered Ben
said
Colin
That morning Dickon was too late to hear the lecture.  When he came he
was ruddy with running and his funny face looked more twinkling than
usual.  As they had a good deal of weeding to do after the rains they
fell to work.  They always had plenty to do after a warm deep sinking
rain.  The moisture which was good for the flowers was also good for
the weeds which thrust up tiny blades of grass and points of leaves
which must be pulled up before their roots took too firm hold.  Colin
was as good at weeding as any one in these days and he could lecture
while he was doing it
he said this morning
It was not very long after he had said this that he laid down his
trowel and stood up on his feet.  He had been silent for several
minutes and they had seen that he was thinking out lectures, as he
often did.  When he dropped his trowel and stood upright it seemed to
Mary and Dickon as if a sudden strong thought had made him do it.  He
stretched himself out to his tallest height and he threw out his arms
exultantly.  Color glowed in his face and his strange eyes widened with
joyfulness.  All at once he had realized something to the full
he cried
They stopped their weeding and looked at him
he
demanded.

Dickon was looking at him very hard.  Being an animal charmer he could
see more things than most people could and many of them were things he
never talked about.  He saw some of them now in this boy
he answered.

Mary looked hard too, but she said nothing
said Colin
said Dickon
said Colin again, and his face went quite red all
over.

He had known it before in a way, he had hoped it and felt it and
thought about it, but just at that minute something had rushed all
through him -- a sort of rapturous belief and realization and it had been
so strong that he could not help calling out
he cried grandly
Ben Weatherstaff, who had been working near a rose-bush, glanced round
at him
he suggested in his dryest grunt.  He
had no opinion of the Doxology and he did not make the suggestion with
any particular reverence.

But Colin was of an exploring mind and he knew nothing about the
Doxology
he inquired
replied Ben Weatherstaff.

Dickon answered with his all-perceiving animal charmer's smile
he said
Colin answered
Dickon was quite simple and unaffected about it.  He understood what
Colin felt better than Colin did himself.  He understood by a sort of
instinct so natural that he did not know it was understanding.  He
pulled off his cap and looked round still smiling
he said to Colin
Colin took off his cap and the sun shone on and warmed his thick hair
as he watched Dickon intently.  Ben Weatherstaff scrambled up from his
knees and bared his head too with a sort of puzzled half-resentful look
on his old face as if he didn't know exactly why he was doing this
remarkable thing.

Dickon stood out among the trees and rose-bushes and began to sing in
quite a simple matter-of-fact way and in a nice strong boy voice
When he had finished, Ben Weatherstaff was standing quite still with
his jaws set obstinately but with a disturbed look in his eyes fixed on
Colin.  Colin's face was thoughtful and appreciative
he said
He stopped and thought in a puzzled way
And they sang it again, and Mary and Colin lifted their voices as
musically as they could and Dickon's swelled quite loud and
beautiful -- and at the second line Ben Weatherstaff raspingly cleared
his throat and at the third line he joined in with such vigor that it
seemed almost savage and when the "Amen" came to an end Mary observed
that the very same thing had happened to him which had happened when he
found out that Colin was not a cripple -- his chin was twitching and he
was staring and winking and his leathery old cheeks were wet
he said hoarsely
Colin was looking across the garden at something attracting his
attention and his expression had become a startled one
he said quickly
The door in the ivied wall had been pushed gently open and a woman had
entered.  She had come in with the last line of their song and she had
stood still listening and looking at them.  With the ivy behind her,
the sunlight drifting through the trees and dappling her long blue
cloak, and her nice fresh face smiling across the greenery she was
rather like a softly colored illustration in one of Colin's books.  She
had wonderful affectionate eyes which seemed to take everything in -- all
of them, even Ben Weatherstaff and the "creatures" and every flower
that was in bloom.  Unexpectedly as she had appeared, not one of them
felt that she was an intruder at all.  Dickon's eyes lighted like lamps
he cried and went across the grass at
a run.

Colin began to move toward her, too, and Mary went with him.  They both
felt their pulses beat faster
Dickon said again when they met halfway
Colin held out his hand with a sort of flushed royal shyness but his
eyes quite devoured her face
he said
The sight of his uplifted face brought about a sudden change in her
own.  She flushed and the corners of her mouth shook and a mist seemed
to sweep over her eyes
she broke out tremulously
as if she
had not known she were going to say it.  She did not say
but just "dear lad" quite suddenly.  She might have said it to
Dickon in the same way if she had seen something in his face which
touched her.  Colin liked it
he asked.  She put her hand
on his shoulder and smiled the mist out of her eyes
she said
said Colin a little awkwardly
she answered and she gave his shoulder a
soft quick pat
said Ben Weatherstaff, getting close to her
Susan Sowerby laughed a comfortable laugh
she said
She put both hands on Mistress Mary's shoulders and looked her little
face over in a motherly fashion
she said
She did not mention that when Martha came home on her "day out" and
described the plain sallow child she had said that she had no
confidence whatever in what Mrs. Medlock had heard
she had added obstinately.

Mary had not had time to pay much attention to her changing face.  She
had only known that she looked "different" and seemed to have a great
deal more hair and that it was growing very fast.  But remembering her
pleasure in looking at the Mem Sahib in the past she was glad to hear
that she might some day look like her.

Susan Sowerby went round their garden with them and was told the whole
story of it and shown every bush and tree which had come alive.  Colin
walked on one side of her and Mary on the other.  Each of them kept
looking up at her comfortable rosy face, secretly curious about the
delightful feeling she gave them -- a sort of warm, supported feeling.
It seemed as if she understood them as Dickon understood his
She stooped over the flowers and talked about them as if
they were children.  Soot followed her and once or twice cawed at her
and flew upon her shoulder as if it were Dickon's. When they told her
about the robin and the first flight of the young ones she laughed a
motherly little mellow laugh in her throat
she said.

It was because she seemed such a wonderful woman in her nice moorland
cottage way that at last she was told about the Magic
asked Colin after he had explained about
Indian fakirs
she answered
said Colin, opening his beautiful strange eyes at
her
and she gave his shoulders a quick
soft pat again.

She had packed a basket which held a regular feast this morning, and
when the hungry hour came and Dickon brought it out from its hiding
place, she sat down with them under their tree and watched them devour
their food, laughing and quite gloating over their appetites.  She was
full of fun and made them laugh at all sorts of odd things.  She told
them stories in broad Yorkshire and taught them new words.  She laughed
as if she could not help it when they told her of the increasing
difficulty there was in pretending that Colin was still a fretful
invalid
explained Colin
said Mary
said Susan Sowerby
asked Colin
Susan Sowerby chuckled softly
she said
said Colin
said Susan Sowerby
One of the things they talked of was the visit they were to make to her
cottage.  They planned it all.  They were to drive over the moor and
lunch out of doors among the heather.  They would see all the twelve
children and Dickon's garden and would not come back until they were
tired.

Susan Sowerby got up at last to return to the house and Mrs. Medlock.
It was time for Colin to be wheeled back also.  But before he got into
his chair he stood quite close to Susan and fixed his eyes on her with
a kind of bewildered adoration and he suddenly caught hold of the fold
of her blue cloak and held it fast
he said
All at once Susan Sowerby bent down and drew him with her warm arms
close against the bosom under the blue cloak -- as if he had been
Dickon's brother.  The quick mist swept over her eyes
she said
In each century since the beginning of the world wonderful things have
been discovered.  In the last century more amazing things were found
out than in any century before.  In this new century hundreds of things
still more astounding will be brought to light.  At first people refuse
to believe that a strange new thing can be done, then they begin to
hope it can be done, then they see it can be done -- then it is done and
all the world wonders why it was not done centuries ago.  One of the
new things people began to find out in the last century was that
thoughts -- just mere thoughts -- are as powerful as electric batteries -- as
good for one as sunlight is, or as bad for one as poison.  To let a sad
thought or a bad one get into your mind is as dangerous as letting a
scarlet fever germ get into your body.  If you let it stay there after
it has got in you may never get over it as long as you live.

So long as Mistress Mary's mind was full of disagreeable thoughts about
her dislikes and sour opinions of people and her determination not to
be pleased by or interested in anything, she was a yellow-faced,
sickly, bored and wretched child.  Circumstances, however, were very
kind to her, though she was not at all aware of it.  They began to push
her about for her own good.  When her mind gradually filled itself with
robins, and moorland cottages crowded with children, with queer crabbed
old gardeners and common little Yorkshire housemaids, with springtime
and with secret gardens coming alive day by day, and also with a moor
boy and his
there was no room left for the disagreeable
thoughts which affected her liver and her digestion and made her yellow
and tired.

So long as Colin shut himself up in his room and thought only of his
fears and weakness and his detestation of people who looked at him and
reflected hourly on humps and early death, he was a hysterical
half-crazy little hypochondriac who knew nothing of the sunshine and
the spring and also did not know that he could get well and could stand
upon his feet if he tried to do it.  When new beautiful thoughts began
to push out the old hideous ones, life began to come back to him, his
blood ran healthily through his veins and strength poured into him like
a flood.  His scientific experiment was quite practical and simple and
there was nothing weird about it at all.  Much more surprising things
can happen to any one who, when a disagreeable or discouraged thought
comes into his mind, just has the sense to remember in time and push it
out by putting in an agreeable determinedly courageous one.  Two things
cannot be in one place
While the secret garden was coming alive and two children were coming
alive with it, there was a man wandering about certain far-away
beautiful places in the Norwegian fiords and the valleys and mountains
of Switzerland and he was a man who for ten years had kept his mind
filled with dark and heart-broken thinking.  He had not been
courageous; he had never tried to put any other thoughts in the place
of the dark ones.  He had wandered by blue lakes and thought them; he
had lain on mountain-sides with sheets of deep blue gentians blooming
all about him and flower breaths filling all the air and he had thought
them.  A terrible sorrow had fallen upon him when he had been happy and
he had let his soul fill itself with blackness and had refused
obstinately to allow any rift of light to pierce through.  He had
forgotten and deserted his home and his duties.  When he traveled
about, darkness so brooded over him that the sight of him was a wrong
done to other people because it was as if he poisoned the air about him
with gloom.  Most strangers thought he must be either half mad or a man
with some hidden crime on his soul.  He, was a tall man with a drawn
face and crooked shoulders and the name he always entered on hotel
registers was
He had traveled far and wide since the day he saw Mistress Mary in his
study and told her she might have her
He had been in
the most beautiful places in Europe, though he had remained nowhere
more than a few days.  He had chosen the quietest and remotest spots.
He had been on the tops of mountains whose heads were in the clouds and
had looked down on other mountains when the sun rose and touched them
with such light as made it seem as if the world were just being born.

But the light had never seemed to touch himself until one day when he
realized that for the first time in ten years a strange thing had
happened.  He was in a wonderful valley in the Austrian Tyrol and he
had been walking alone through such beauty as might have lifted, any
man's soul out of shadow.  He had walked a long way and it had not
lifted his.  But at last he had felt tired and had thrown himself down
to rest on a carpet of moss by a stream.  It was a clear little stream
which ran quite merrily along on its narrow way through the luscious
damp greenness.  Sometimes it made a sound rather like very low
laughter as it bubbled over and round stones.  He saw birds come and
dip their heads to drink in it and then flick their wings and fly away.
It seemed like a thing alive and yet its tiny voice made the stillness
seem deeper.  The valley was very, very still.

As he sat gazing into the clear running of the water, Archibald Craven
gradually felt his mind and body both grow quiet, as quiet as the
valley itself.  He wondered if he were going to sleep, but he was not.
He sat and gazed at the sunlit water and his eyes began to see things
growing at its edge.  There was one lovely mass of blue forget-me-nots
growing so close to the stream that its leaves were wet and at these he
found himself looking as he remembered he had looked at such things
years ago.  He was actually thinking tenderly how lovely it was and
what wonders of blue its hundreds of little blossoms were.  He did not
know that just that simple thought was slowly filling his mind -- filling
and filling it until other things were softly pushed aside.  It was as
if a sweet clear spring had begun to rise in a stagnant pool and had
risen and risen until at last it swept the dark water away.  But of
course he did not think of this himself.  He only knew that the valley
seemed to grow quieter and quieter as he sat and stared at the bright
delicate blueness.  He did not know how long he sat there or what was
happening to him, but at last he moved as if he were awakening and he
got up slowly and stood on the moss carpet, drawing a long, deep, soft
breath and wondering at himself.  Something seemed to have been unbound
and released in him, very quietly
he said, almost in a whisper, and he passed his hand over
his forehead
I do not know enough about the wonderfulness of undiscovered things to
be able to explain how this had happened to him.  Neither does any one
else yet.  He did not understand at all himself -- but he remembered this
strange hour months afterward when he was at Misselthwaite again and he
found out quite by accident that on this very day Colin had cried out
as he went into the secret garden
The singular calmness remained with him the rest of the evening and he
slept a new reposeful sleep; but it was not with him very long.  He did
not know that it could be kept.  By the next night he had opened the
doors wide to his dark thoughts and they had come trooping and rushing
back.  He left the valley and went on his wandering way again.  But,
strange as it seemed to him, there were minutes -- sometimes
half-hours -- when, without his knowing why, the black burden seemed to
lift itself again and he knew he was a living man and not a dead one.
Slowly -- slowly -- for no reason that he knew of -- he was "coming alive"
with the garden.

As the golden summer changed into the deep golden autumn he went to the
Lake of Como.  There he found the loveliness of a dream.  He spent his
days upon the crystal blueness of the lake or he walked back into the
soft thick verdure of the hills and tramped until he was tired so that
he might sleep.  But by this time he had begun to sleep better, he
knew, and his dreams had ceased to be a terror to him
he thought
It was growing stronger but -- because of the rare peaceful hours when
his thoughts were changed -- his soul was slowly growing stronger, too.
He began to think of Misselthwaite and wonder if he should not go home.
Now and then he wondered vaguely about his boy and asked himself what
he should feel when he went and stood by the carved four-posted bed
again and looked down at the sharply chiseled ivory-white face while it
slept and, the black lashes rimmed so startlingly the close-shut eyes.
He shrank from it.

One marvel of a day he had walked so far that when he returned the moon
was high and full and all the world was purple shadow and silver.  The
stillness of lake and shore and wood was so wonderful that he did not
go into the villa he lived in.  He walked down to a little bowered
terrace at the water's edge and sat upon a seat and breathed in all the
heavenly scents of the night.  He felt the strange calmness stealing
over him and it grew deeper and deeper until he fell asleep.

He did not know when he fell asleep and when he began to dream; his
dream was so real that he did not feel as if he were dreaming.  He
remembered afterward how intensely wide awake and alert he had thought
he was.  He thought that as he sat and breathed in the scent of the
late roses and listened to the lapping of the water at his feet he
heard a voice calling.  It was sweet and clear and happy and far away.
It seemed very far, but he heard it as distinctly as if it had been at
his very side
it said, and then again, sweeter and clearer
than before
He thought he sprang to his feet not even startled.  It was such a real
voice and it seemed so natural that he should hear it
he answered
it came back like a sound from a golden flute
And then the dream ended.  But he did not awaken.  He slept soundly and
sweetly all through the lovely night.  When he did awake at last it was
brilliant morning and a servant was standing staring at him.  He was an
Italian servant and was accustomed, as all the servants of the villa
were, to accepting without question any strange thing his foreign
master might do.  No one ever knew when he would go out or come in or
where he would choose to sleep or if he would roam about the garden or
lie in the boat on the lake all night.  The man held a salver with some
letters on it and he waited quietly until Mr. Craven took them.  When
he had gone away Mr. Craven sat a few moments holding them in his hand
and looking at the lake.  His strange calm was still upon him and
something more -- a lightness as if the cruel thing which had been done
had not happened as he thought -- as if something had changed.  He was
remembering the dream -- the real -- real dream
he said, wondering at himself
When he glanced at the letters a few minutes later he saw that the one
lying at the top of the rest was an English letter and came from
Yorkshire.  It was directed in a plain woman's hand but it was not a
hand he knew.  He opened it, scarcely thinking of the writer, but the
first words attracted his attention at once.


"Dear Sir:

I am Susan Sowerby that made bold to speak to you once on the moor.  It
was about Miss Mary I spoke.  I will make bold to speak again.  Please,
sir, I would come home if I was you.  I think you would be glad to come
and -- if you will excuse me, sir -- I think your lady would ask you to
come if she was here.

                      Your obedient servant,
                      Susan Sowerby."


Mr. Craven read the letter twice before he put it back in its envelope.
He kept thinking about the dream
he said
And he went through the garden to the villa and ordered Pitcher to
prepare for his return to England.


In a few days he was in Yorkshire again, and on his long railroad
journey he found himself thinking of his boy as he had never thought in
all the ten years past.  During those years he had only wished to
forget him.  Now, though he did not intend to think about him, memories
of him constantly drifted into his mind.  He remembered the black days
when he had raved like a madman because the child was alive and the
mother was dead.  He had refused to see it, and when he had gone to
look at it at last it had been, such a weak wretched thing that
everyone had been sure it would die in a few days.  But to the surprise
of those who took care of it the days passed and it lived and then
everyone believed it would be a deformed and crippled creature.

He had not meant to be a bad father, but he had not felt like a father
at all.  He had supplied doctors and nurses and luxuries, but he had
shrunk from the mere thought of the boy and had buried himself in his
own misery.  The first time after a year's absence he returned to
Misselthwaite and the small miserable looking thing languidly and
indifferently lifted to his face the great gray eyes with black lashes
round them, so like and yet so horribly unlike the happy eyes he had
adored, he could not bear the sight of them and turned away pale as
death.  After that he scarcely ever saw him except when he was asleep,
and all he knew of him was that he was a confirmed invalid, with a
vicious, hysterical, half-insane temper.  He could only be kept from
furies dangerous to himself by being given his own way in every detail.

All this was not an uplifting thing to recall, but as the train whirled
him through mountain passes and golden plains the man who was "coming
alive" began to think in a new way and he thought long and steadily and
deeply
he said to himself
Of course this was the wrong Magic -- to begin by saying
Even
Colin could have told him that.  But he knew nothing of Magic -- either
black or white.  This he had yet to learn.  He wondered if Susan
Sowerby had taken courage and written to him only because the motherly
creature had realized that the boy was much worse -- was fatally ill.  If
he had not been under the spell of the curious calmness which had taken
possession of him he would have been more wretched than ever.  But the
calm had brought a sort of courage and hope with it.  Instead of giving
way to thoughts of the worst he actually found he was trying to believe
in better things
he thought
But when on his way across the moor he stopped the carriage at the
cottage, seven or eight children who were playing about gathered in a
group and bobbing seven or eight friendly and polite curtsies told him
that their mother had gone to the other side of the moor early in the
morning to help a woman who had a new baby
they
volunteered, was over at the Manor working in one of the gardens where
he went several days each week.

Mr. Craven looked over the collection of sturdy little bodies and round
red-cheeked faces, each one grinning in its own particular way, and he
awoke to the fact that they were a healthy likable lot.  He smiled at
their friendly grins and took a golden sovereign from his pocket and
gave it to "our 'Lizabeth Ellen" who was the oldest
he said.

Then amid grins and chuckles and bobbing of curtsies he drove away,
leaving ecstasy and nudging elbows and little jumps of joy behind.

The drive across the wonderfulness of the moor was a soothing thing.
Why did it seem to give him a sense of homecoming which he had been
sure he could never feel again -- that sense of the beauty of land and
sky and purple bloom of distance and a warming of the heart at drawing,
nearer to the great old house which had held those of his blood for six
hundred years? How he had driven away from it the last time, shuddering
to think of its closed rooms and the boy lying in the four-posted bed
with the brocaded hangings.  Was it possible that perhaps he might find
him changed a little for the better and that he might overcome his
shrinking from him?  How real that dream had been -- how wonderful and
clear the voice which called back to him
he said
When he arrived at the Manor the servants who received him with the
usual ceremony noticed that he looked better and that he did not go to
the remote rooms where he usually lived attended by Pitcher.  He went
into the library and sent for Mrs. Medlock.  She came to him somewhat
excited and curious and flustered
he inquired
Mrs. Medlock
answered
he suggested.

Mrs. Medlock really was flushed
she tried to explain
her master, asked, knitting his
brows anxiously
was the next question
Mr. Craven asked
Mr. Craven scarcely heard her last words
he said, and after he had sent Mrs. Medlock away he
stood and repeated it again and again
He had to make an effort to bring himself back to the place he was
standing in and when he felt he was on earth again he turned and went
out of the room.  He took his way, as Mary had done, through the door
in the shrubbery and among the laurels and the fountain beds.  The
fountain was playing now and was encircled by beds of brilliant autumn
flowers.  He crossed the lawn and turned into the Long Walk by the
ivied walls.  He did not walk quickly, but slowly, and his eyes were on
the path.  He felt as if he were being drawn back to the place he had
so long forsaken, and he did not know why.  As he drew near to it his
step became still more slow.  He knew where the door was even though
the ivy hung thick over it -- but he did not know exactly where it
lay -- that buried key.

So he stopped and stood still, looking about him, and almost the moment
after he had paused he started and listened -- asking himself if he were
walking in a dream.

The ivy hung thick over the door, the key was buried under the shrubs,
no human being had passed that portal for ten lonely years -- and yet
inside the garden there were sounds.  They were the sounds of running
scuffling feet seeming to chase round and round under the trees, they
were strange sounds of lowered suppressed voices -- exclamations and
smothered joyous cries.  It seemed actually like the laughter of young
things, the uncontrollable laughter of children who were trying not to
be heard but who in a moment or so -- as their excitement mounted -- would
burst forth.  What in heaven's name was he dreaming of -- what in
heaven's name did he hear? Was he losing his reason and thinking he
heard things which were not for human ears? Was it that the far clear
voice had meant?

And then the moment came, the uncontrollable moment when the sounds
forgot to hush themselves.  The feet ran faster and faster -- they were
nearing the garden door -- there was quick strong young breathing and a
wild outbreak of laughing shows which could not be contained -- and the
door in the wall was flung wide open, the sheet of ivy swinging back,
and a boy burst through it at full speed and, without seeing the
outsider, dashed almost into his arms.

Mr. Craven had extended them just in time to save him from falling as a
result of his unseeing dash against him, and when he held him away to
look at him in amazement at his being there he truly gasped for breath.

He was a tall boy and a handsome one.  He was glowing with life and his
running had sent splendid color leaping to his face.  He threw the
thick hair back from his forehead and lifted a pair of strange gray
eyes -- eyes full of boyish laughter and rimmed with black lashes like a
fringe.  It was the eyes which made Mr. Craven gasp for breath
he stammered.

This was not what Colin had expected -- this was not what he had planned.
He had never thought of such a meeting.  And yet to come dashing
out -- winning a race -- perhaps it was even better.  He drew himself up to
his very tallest.  Mary, who had been running with him and had dashed
through the door too, believed that he managed to make himself look
taller than he had ever looked before -- inches taller
he said
Like Mrs. Medlock, he did not understand what his father meant when he
said hurriedly
hurried on Colin
He said it all so like a healthy boy -- his face flushed, his words
tumbling over each other in his eagerness -- that Mr. Craven's soul shook
with unbelieving joy.

Colin put out his hand and laid it on his father's arm
he ended
Mr. Craven put his hands on both the boy's shoulders and held him
still.  He knew he dared not even try to speak for a moment
he said at last
And so they led him in.

The place was a wilderness of autumn gold and purple and violet blue
and flaming scarlet and on every side were sheaves of late lilies
standing together -- lilies which were white or white and ruby.  He
remembered well when the first of them had been planted that just at
this season of the year their late glories should reveal themselves.
Late roses climbed and hung and clustered and the sunshine deepening
the hue of the yellowing trees made one feel that one, stood in an
embowered temple of gold.  The newcomer stood silent just as the
children had done when they came into its grayness.  He looked round
and round
he said
said Colin
Then they sat down under their tree -- all but Colin, who wanted to stand
while he told the story.

It was the strangest thing he had ever heard, Archibald Craven thought,
as it was poured forth in headlong boy fashion.  Mystery and Magic and
wild creatures, the weird midnight meeting -- the coming of the
spring -- the passion of insulted pride which had dragged the young Rajah
to his feet to defy old Ben Weatherstaff to his face.  The odd
companionship, the play acting, the great secret so carefully kept.
The listener laughed until tears came into his eyes and sometimes tears
came into his eyes when he was not laughing.  The Athlete, the
Lecturer, the Scientific Discoverer was a laughable, lovable, healthy
young human thing
he said at the end of the story
Ben Weatherstaff's duties rarely took him away from the gardens, but on
this occasion he made an excuse to carry some vegetables to the kitchen
and being invited into the servants' hall by Mrs. Medlock to drink a
glass of beer he was on the spot -- as he had hoped to be -- when the most
dramatic event Misselthwaite Manor had seen during the present
generation actually took place.  One of the windows looking upon the
courtyard gave also a glimpse of the lawn.  Mrs. Medlock, knowing Ben
had come from the gardens, hoped that he might have caught sight of his
master and even by chance of his meeting with Master Colin
she asked.

Ben took his beer-mug from his mouth and wiped his lips with the back
of his hand
he answered with a shrewdly significant air
suggested Mrs. Medlock
returned Ben Weatherstaff
said Mrs. Medlock, hastily overfilling his beer-mug in her
excitement
and Ben gulped down half of his new mug at one gulp
said Ben
And it was not two minutes before he swallowed the last of his beer and
waved his mug solemnly toward the window which took in through the
shrubbery a piece of the lawn
he said
When Mrs. Medlock looked she threw up her hands and gave a little
shriek and every man and woman servant within hearing bolted across the
servants' hall and stood looking through the window with their eyes
almost starting out of their heads.

Across the lawn came the Master of Misselthwaite and he looked as many
of them had never seen him.  And by his, side with his head up in the
air and his eyes full of laughter walked as strongly and steadily as
any boy in Yorkshire -- Master Colin
</text>
