<text>
Being the adventures of the Bastable children in search of a fortune




TO OSWALD BARRON Without whom this book could never have been written

The Treasure Seekers is dedicated in memory of childhoods identical but
for the accidents of time and space
This is the story of the different ways we looked for treasure, and I
think when you have read it you will see that we were not lazy about the
looking.

There are some things I must tell before I begin to tell about the
treasure-seeking, because I have read books myself, and I know how
beastly it is when a story begins
and then some one
else says something -- and you don't know for pages and pages where the
home is, or who Hildegarde is, or anything about it. Our ancestral home
is in the Lewisham Road. It is semi-detached and has a garden, not a
large one. We are the Bastables. There are six of us besides Father. Our
Mother is dead, and if you think we don't care because I don't tell you
much about her you only show that you do not understand people at all.
Dora is the eldest. Then Oswald -- and then Dicky. Oswald won the Latin
prize at his preparatory school -- and Dicky is good at sums. Alice
and Noel are twins: they are ten, and Horace Octavius is my youngest
brother. It is one of us that tells this story -- but I shall not tell you
which: only at the very end perhaps I will. While the story is going
on you may be trying to guess, only I bet you don't. It was Oswald
who first thought of looking for treasure. Oswald often thinks of very
interesting things. And directly he thought of it he did not keep it
to himself, as some boys would have done, but he told the others, and
said
Dora said it was all very well. She often says that. She was trying to
mend a large hole in one of Noel's stockings. He tore it on a nail when
we were playing shipwrecked mariners on top of the chicken-house the day
H. O. fell off and cut his chin: he has the scar still. Dora is the only
one of us who ever tries to mend anything. Alice tries to make things
sometimes. Once she knitted a red scarf for Noel because his chest
is delicate, but it was much wider at one end than the other, and he
wouldn't wear it. So we used it as a pennon, and it did very well,
because most of our things are black or grey since Mother died; and
scarlet was a nice change. Father does not like you to ask for new
things. That was one way we had of knowing that the fortunes of the
ancient House of Bastable were really fallen. Another way was that there
was no more pocket-money -- except a penny now and then to the little
ones, and people did not come to dinner any more, like they used to,
with pretty dresses, driving up in cabs -- and the carpets got holes in
them -- and when the legs came off things they were not sent to be mended,
and we gave _up_ having the gardener except for the front garden, and
not that very often. And the silver in the big oak plate-chest that is
lined with green baize all went away to the shop to have the dents
and scratches taken out of it, and it never came back. We think Father
hadn't enough money to pay the silver man for taking out the dents and
scratches. The new spoons and forks were yellowy-white, and not so heavy
as the old ones, and they never shone after the first day or two.

Father was very ill after Mother died; and while he was ill his
business-partner went to Spain -- and there was never much money
afterwards. I don't know why. Then the servants left and there was only
one, a General. A great deal of your comfort and happiness depends on
having a good General. The last but one was nice: she used to make jolly
good currant puddings for us, and let us have the dish on the floor
and pretend it was a wild boar we were killing with our forks. But the
General we have now nearly always makes sago puddings, and they are
the watery kind, and you cannot pretend anything with them, not even
islands, like you do with porridge.

Then we left off going to school, and Father said we should go to a good
school as soon as he could manage it. He said a holiday would do us all
good. We thought he was right, but we wished he had told us he couldn't
afford it. For of course we knew.

Then a great many people used to come to the door with envelopes with
no stamps on them, and sometimes they got very angry, and said they
were calling for the last time before putting it in other hands. I asked
Eliza what that meant, and she kindly explained to me, and I was so
sorry for Father.

And once a long, blue paper came; a policeman brought it, and we were
so frightened. But Father said it was all right, only when he went up
to kiss the girls after they were in bed they said he had been crying,
though I'm sure that's not true. Because only cowards and snivellers
cry, and my Father is the bravest man in the world.

So you see it was time we looked for treasure and Oswald said so, and
Dora said it was all very well. But the others agreed with Oswald. So we
held a council. Dora was in the chair -- the big dining-room chair, that
we let the fireworks off from, the Fifth of November when we had the
measles and couldn't do it in the garden. The hole has never been
mended, so now we have that chair in the nursery, and I think it was
cheap at the blowing-up we boys got when the hole was burnt
said Alice
She rattled the money-box as she spoke, and it really did rattle because
we always keep the bad sixpence in it for luck
said Dicky
Dicky always wants everything settled exactly.
Father calls him the Definite Article
It was Noel who suggested this, but we made him shut up, because
we knew well enough he only wanted to get back to his old books. Noel
is a poet. He sold some of his poetry once -- and it was printed, but that
does not come in this part of the story.

Then Dicky said
said
H. O. His real name is Horace Octavius, but we call him H. O. because of
the advertisement, and it's not so very long ago he was afraid to pass
the hoarding where it says
in big letters. He says it was
when he was a little boy, but I remember last Christmas but one, he woke
in the middle of the night crying and howling, and they said it was the
pudding. But he told me afterwards he had been dreaming that they really
_had_ come to eat H. O., and it couldn't have been the pudding, when you
come to think of it, because it was so very plain.

Well, we made it half an hour -- and we all sat quiet, and thought and
thought. And I made up my mind before two minutes were over, and I
saw the others had, all but Dora, who is always an awful time over
everything. I got pins and needles in my leg from sitting still so long,
and when it was seven minutes H. O. cried out
H. O. is eight years old, but he cannot tell the clock yet. Oswald could
tell the clock when he was six.

We all stretched ourselves and began to speak at once, but Dora put up
her hands to her ears and said
It is a very good
game. Did you ever play it?)

So Dora made us all sit in a row on the floor, in ages, and then she
pointed at us with the finger that had the brass thimble on. Her silver
one got lost when the last General but two went away. We think she must
have forgotten it was Dora's and put it in her box by mistake. She was a
very forgetful girl. She used to forget what she had spent money on, so
that the change was never quite right.

Oswald spoke first
Dora screwed up her nose the way she always does when she is going to
talk like the good elder sister in books, and said
I must say I don't think she need have said that, especially before the
little ones -- for it was when I was only four.

But Oswald was not going to let her see he cared, so he said
said Dora
But the others did not seem to think so, and it was Alice's turn to say.

She said
said Dora suddenly
said Dicky
said Dora
said H. O
said Dora.

And Dicky said she thought everything wrong. She said she didn't, and
Dicky was very disagreeable. So Oswald had to make peace, and he said
Dora and Dicky did not look pleased, but I kicked Noel under the table
to make him hurry up, and then he said he didn't think he wanted to
play any more. That's the worst of it. The others are so jolly ready to
quarrel. I told Noel to be a man and not a snivelling pig, and at last
he said he had not made up his mind whether he would print his poetry in
a book and sell it, or find a princess and marry her
he added
said Oswald
And Alice explained to
him that that was quite the opposite of what he thought. So he agreed to
drop it.

Then Dicky spoke
We all said
But Dicky said
That is Dicky all over. He never will show you
anything he's making till it's quite finished, and the same with his
inmost thoughts. But he is pleased if you seem to want to know, so
Oswald said
Then Dora jumped up and dropped the stocking and the thimble (it rolled
away, and we did not find it for days), and said
But we told her to shut up and come on, and she did.

I couldn't help wondering as we went down to the garden, why Father
had never thought of digging there for treasure instead of going to his
beastly office every day
I am afraid the last chapter was rather dull. It is always dull in books
when people talk and talk, and don't do anything, but I was obliged to
put it in, or else you wouldn't have understood all the rest. The best
part of books is when things are happening. That is the best part of
real things too. This is why I shall not tell you in this story about
all the days when nothing happened. You will not catch me saying
or
or
because it is silly; of course time goes
on -- whether you say so or not. So I shall just tell you the nice,
interesting parts -- and in between you will understand that we had our
meals and got up and went to bed, and dull things like that. It would be
sickening to write all that down, though of course it happens. I said
so to Albert-next-door's uncle, who writes books, and he said
And he
is very clever indeed. So you see.

I have often thought that if the people who write books for children
knew a little more it would be better. I shall not tell you anything
about us except what I should like to know about if I was reading the
story and you were writing it. Albert's uncle says I ought to have put
this in the preface, but I never read prefaces, and it is not much good
writing things just for people to skip. I wonder other authors have
never thought of this.

Well, when we had agreed to dig for treasure we all went down into the
cellar and lighted the gas. Oswald would have liked to dig there, but
it is stone flags. We looked among the old boxes and broken chairs and
fenders and empty bottles and things, and at last we found the spades we
had to dig in the sand with when we went to the seaside three years ago.
They are not silly, babyish, wooden spades, that split if you look at
them, but good iron, with a blue mark across the top of the iron part,
and yellow wooden handles. We wasted a little time getting them dusted,
because the girls wouldn't dig with spades that had cobwebs on them.
Girls would never do for African explorers or anything like that, they
are too beastly particular.

It was no use doing the thing by halves. We marked out a sort of square
in the mouldy part of the garden, about three yards across, and began
to dig. But we found nothing except worms and stones -- and the ground was
very hard.

So we thought we'd try another part of the garden, and we found a
place in the big round flower bed, where the ground was much softer. We
thought we'd make a smaller hole to begin with, and it was much better.
We dug and dug and dug, and it was jolly hard work! We got very hot
digging, but we found nothing.

Presently Albert-next-door looked over the wall. We do not like him very
much, but we let him play with us sometimes, because his father is dead,
and you must not be unkind to orphans, even if their mothers are
alive. Albert is always very tidy. He wears frilly collars and velvet
knickerbockers. I can't think how he can bear to.

So we said
And he said
said Alice
Albert-next-door only sniggered and said
He
cannot play properly at all. It is very strange, because he has a very
nice uncle. You see, Albert-next-door doesn't care for reading, and he
has not read nearly so many books as we have, so he is very foolish and
ignorant, but it cannot be helped, and you just have to put up with it
when you want him to do anything. Besides, it is wrong to be angry with
people for not being so clever as you are yourself. It is not always
their faults.

So Oswald said
But he said
Alice said
So he came along and dug, and when once he was over the wall we kept him
at it, and we worked as well, of course, and the hole got deep. Pincher
worked too -- he is our dog and he is very good at digging. He digs for
rats in the dustbin sometimes, and gets very dirty. But we love our dog,
even when his face wants washing
Oswald said
So he jumped into the hole and began to dig at one side.
After that we took it in turns to dig at the tunnel, and Pincher was
most useful in scraping the earth out of the tunnel -- he does it with
his back feet when you say
and he digs with his front ones, and
burrows with his nose as well.

At last the tunnel was nearly a yard long, and big enough to creep
along to find the treasure, if only it had been a bit longer. Now it was
Albert's turn to go in and dig, but he funked it
said Oswald -- nobody can say that Oswald
doesn't take his turn like a man. But Albert wouldn't. So we had to make
him, because it was only fair
Alice said
Albert-next-door said this; but we
remembered how he had picked a fat red and black worm up in his fingers
and thrown it at Dora only the day before. So we put him in.

But he would not go in head first, the proper way, and dig with his
hands as we had done, and though Oswald was angry at the time, for he
hates snivellers, yet afterwards he owned that perhaps it was just
as well. You should never be afraid to own that perhaps you were
mistaken -- but it is cowardly to do it unless you are quite sure you are
in the wrong
said Albert-next-door
So we let him get in feet first -- and he did it very slowly and at last
he was in, and only his head sticking out into the hole; and all the
rest of him in the tunnel
said Oswald
You should always try to think of these little things. Thinking of other
people's comfort makes them like you. Alice held Pincher, and we all
shouted
So Albert-next-door began to dig with his feet, and we stood on the
ground over him, waiting -- and all in a minute the ground gave way, and
we tumbled together in a heap: and when we got up there was a little
shallow hollow where we had been standing, and Albert-next-door was
underneath, stuck quite fast, because the roof of the tunnel had tumbled
in on him. He is a horribly unlucky boy to have anything to do with.

It was dreadful the way he cried and screamed, though he had to own it
didn't hurt, only it was rather heavy and he couldn't move his legs. We
would have dug him out all right enough, in time, but he screamed so we
were afraid the police would come, so Dicky climbed over the wall, to
tell the cook there to tell Albert-next-door's uncle he had been buried
by mistake, and to come and help dig him out.

Dicky was a long time gone. We wondered what had become of him, and all
the while the screaming went on and on, for we had taken the loose earth
off Albert's face so that he could scream quite easily and comfortably.

Presently Dicky came back and Albert-next-door's uncle came with him. He
has very long legs, and his hair is light and his face is brown. He has
been to sea, but now he writes books. I like him.

He told his nephew to stow it, so Albert did, and then he asked him if
he was hurt -- and Albert had to say he wasn't, for though he is a coward,
and very unlucky, he is not a liar like some boys are
said
Albert-next-door's uncle, rubbing his hands and looking at the hole with
Albert's head in it
so he fetched the big
spade out of the next-door garden tool-shed, and began to dig his nephew
out
he said
Then after a while he said
said Alice. They used to talk a lot about moral
force at the High School where she went, and in case you don't know what
it means I'll tell you that it is making people do what they don't want
to, just by slanging them, or laughing at them, or promising them things
if they're good
said Albert-next-door's uncle
Dora said
said Alice
and she sighed.

Then Albert-next-door began to scream again, and his uncle wiped his
face -- his own face, not Albert's -- with his silk handkerchief, and then
he put it in his trousers pocket. It seems a strange place to put a
handkerchief, but he had his coat and waistcoat off and I suppose he
wanted the handkerchief handy. Digging is warm work.

He told Albert-next-door to drop it, or he wouldn't proceed further
in the matter, so Albert stopped screaming, and presently his uncle
finished digging him out. Albert did look so funny, with his hair all
dusty and his velvet suit covered with mould and his face muddy with
earth and crying.

We all said how sorry we were, but he wouldn't say a word back to us. He
was most awfully sick to think he'd been the one buried, when it might
just as well have been one of us. I felt myself that it was hard lines
said Albert-next-door's uncle,
wiping his face again with his handkerchief
He pointed to something shining in the hole he had just dragged Albert
out of. Oswald picked it up. It was a half-crown. We looked at each
other, speechless with surprise and delight, like in books
said Albert-next-door's uncle
said Dicky
said Alice
We all agreed to do this, and told Albert-next-door we would bring his
share as soon as we could get the half-crown changed. He cheered up a
little at that, and his uncle wiped his face again -- he did look hot -- and
began to put on his coat and waistcoat.

When he had done it he stooped and picked up something. He held it up,
and you will hardly believe it, but it is quite true -- it was another
half-crown
he said
I wish Albert-next-door's uncle would come treasure-seeking with us
regularly; he must have very sharp eyes: for Dora says she was looking
just the minute before at the very place where the second half-crown was
picked up from, and _she_ never saw it
The next thing that happened to us was very interesting. It was as real
as the half-crowns -- not just pretending. I shall try to write it as like
a real book as I can. Of course we have read Mr Sherlock Holmes, as
well as the yellow-covered books with pictures outside that are so badly
printed; and you get them for fourpence-halfpenny at the bookstall when
the corners of them are beginning to curl up and get dirty, with people
looking to see how the story ends when they are waiting for trains. I
think this is most unfair to the boy at the bookstall. The books are
written by a gentleman named Gaboriau, and Albert's uncle says they are
the worst translations in the world -- and written in vile English. Of
course they're not like Kipling, but they're jolly good stories. And we
had just been reading a book by Dick Diddlington -- that's not his right
name, but I know all about libel actions, so I shall not say what his
name is really, because his books are rot. Only they put it into our
heads to do what I am going to narrate.

It was in September, and we were not to go to the seaside because it is
so expensive, even if you go to Sheerness, where it is all tin cans and
old boots and no sand at all. But every one else went, even the people
next door -- not Albert's side, but the other. Their servant told Eliza
they were all going to Scarborough, and next day sure enough all the
blinds were down and the shutters up, and the milk was not left any
more. There is a big horse-chestnut tree between their garden and ours,
very useful for getting conkers out of and for making stuff to rub on
your chilblains. This prevented our seeing whether the blinds were
down at the back as well, but Dicky climbed to the top of the tree and
looked, and they were.

It was jolly hot weather, and very stuffy indoors -- we used to play a
good deal in the garden. We made a tent out of the kitchen clothes-horse
and some blankets off our beds, and though it was quite as hot in the
tent as in the house it was a very different sort of hotness. Albert's
uncle called it the Turkish Bath. It is not nice to be kept from the
seaside, but we know that we have much to be thankful for. We might be
poor little children living in a crowded alley where even at summer
noon hardly a ray of sunlight penetrates; clothed in rags and with bare
feet -- though I do not mind holes in my clothes myself, and bare
feet would not be at all bad in this sort of weather. Indeed we do,
sometimes, when we are playing at things which require it. It was
shipwrecked mariners that day, I remember, and we were all in the
blanket tent. We had just finished eating the things we had saved, at
the peril of our lives, from the st-sinking vessel. They were rather
nice things. Two-pennyworth of coconut candy -- it was got in Greenwich,
where it is four ounces a penny -- three apples, some macaroni -- the
straight sort that is so useful to suck things through -- some raw rice,
and a large piece of cold suet pudding that Alice nicked from the larder
when she went to get the rice and macaroni. And when we had finished
some one said
I wish to be quite fair, but I cannot remember exactly who said it.
Oswald thinks he said it, and Dora says it was Dicky, but Oswald is too
much of a man to quarrel about a little thing like that
said -- perhaps it was Dicky, but I
think not
said H. O
Alice said
said Dora
said Alice.

We explained to her why murderers have to be hanged, but she only said
She stroked Pincher's ears, but he had gone to sleep because he knew
well enough that all the suet pudding was finished. He is a very
sensible dog
Oswald said
Dicky said
We sent H. O. for the paper at once, but we could not make any of the
things fit in. The two best were about how some burglars broke into
a place in Holloway where they made preserved tongues and invalid
delicacies, and carried off a lot of them. And on another page there
was
Oswald thought there was something in it, and so did Albert's uncle when
we asked him, but the others thought not, so Oswald agreed to drop it.
Besides, Holloway is a long way off. All the time we were talking about
the paper Alice seemed to be thinking about something else, and when we
had done she said
Dicky asked
she said
Alice is a jolly sight too fond of asking grown-up people things. And we
all said it was tommyrot, and she was to tell us
Alice said, and we
promised. Then she said
So Dora said she had had enough of tents, and she was going to look at
the shops. H. O. went with her because he had twopence to spend. They
thought it was only a game of Alice's but Oswald knew by the way she
spoke. He can nearly always tell. And when people are not telling the
truth Oswald generally knows by the way they look with their eyes.
Oswald is not proud of being able to do this. He knows it is through no
merit of his own that he is much cleverer than some people.

When they had gone, the rest of us got closer together and said
Alice said
We asked her how and when, because her room is in the front, and she
couldn't possibly have seen. And then she said
So we had to promise.

Then she said
Oswald said
Alice said she didn't mean that, and she went on
Noel asked. And Alice explained
that she did not want to get any one into trouble, even burglars
she said
Noel said. He was sucking the last bit
of his macaroni
Dicky said
said Oswald at once
Dicky thought it ought to be something fat, because coiners are always
a desperate gang; and the machinery they make the coins with is so heavy
and handy for knocking down detectives.

Then it was tea-time, and we went in; and Dora and H. O. had clubbed
their money together and bought a melon; quite a big one, and only a
little bit squashy at one end. It was very good, and then we washed the
seeds and made things with them and with pins and cotton. And nobody
said any more about watching the house next door.

Only when we went to bed Dicky took off his coat and waistcoat, but he
stopped at his braces, and said
Oswald had taken off his collar and tie, and he was just going to say
the same, so he said
Dicky said he did not think the girls ought to be in it, because there
might be danger, but Oswald reminded him that they had promised Alice,
and that a promise is a sacred thing, even when you'd much rather
not. So Oswald got Alice alone under pretence of showing her a
caterpillar -- Dora does not like them, and she screamed and ran away when
Oswald offered to show it her. Then Oswald explained, and Alice agreed
to come and watch if she could. This made us later than we ought to have
been, because Alice had to wait till Dora was quiet and then creep out
very slowly, for fear of the boards creaking. The girls sleep with their
room-door open for fear of burglars. Alice had kept on her clothes
under her nightgown when Dora wasn't looking, and presently we got down,
creeping past Father's study, and out at the glass door that leads on
to the veranda and the iron steps into the garden. And we went down very
quietly, and got into the chestnut-tree; and then I felt that we had
only been playing what Albert's uncle calls our favourite instrument -- I
mean the Fool. For the house next door was as dark as dark. Then
suddenly we heard a sound -- it came from the gate at the end of the
garden. All the gardens have gates; they lead into a kind of lane that
runs behind them. It is a sort of back way, very convenient when you
don't want to say exactly where you are going. We heard the gate at the
end of the next garden click, and Dicky nudged Alice so that she
would have fallen out of the tree if it had not been for Oswald's
extraordinary presence of mind. Oswald squeezed Alice's arm tight, and
we all looked; and the others were rather frightened because really we
had not exactly expected anything to happen except perhaps a light. But
now a muffled figure, shrouded in a dark cloak, came swiftly up the
path of the next-door garden. And we could see that under its cloak the
figure carried a mysterious burden. The figure was dressed to look like
a woman in a sailor hat.

We held our breath as it passed under the tree where we were, and then
it tapped very gently on the back door and was let in, and then a light
appeared in the window of the downstairs back breakfast-room. But the
shutters were up.

Dicky said
and wouldn't the others be sick to think they
hadn't been in this! But Alice didn't half like it -- and as she is a girl
I do not blame her. Indeed, I thought myself at first that perhaps
it would be better to retire for the present, and return later with a
strongly armed force
Alice whispered
But Dicky said he was going to see; if there was a reward for finding
out things like this he would like to have the reward
he whispered
There were holes at the top of the shutters the shape of hearts, and the
yellow light came out through them as well as through the chinks of the
shutters.

Oswald said if Dicky went he should, because he was the eldest; and
Alice said
So Oswald said
and she said
And
she begged us not to, and we talked about it in the tree till we were
all quite hoarse with whispering.

At last we decided on a plan of action.

Alice was to stay in the tree, and scream
if anything
happened. Dicky and I were to get down into the next garden and take it
in turns to peep.

So we got down as quietly as we could, but the tree made much more noise
than it does in the day, and several times we paused, fearing that all
was discovered. But nothing happened.

There was a pile of red flower-pots under the window and one very large
one was on the window-ledge. It seemed as if it was the hand of Destiny
had placed it there, and the geranium in it was dead, and there was
nothing to stop your standing on it -- so Oswald did. He went first
because he is the eldest, and though Dicky tried to stop him because he
thought of it first it could not be, on account of not being able to say
anything.

So Oswald stood on the flower-pot and tried to look through one of the
holes. He did not really expect to see the coiners at their fell work,
though he had pretended to when we were talking in the tree. But if he
had seen them pouring the base molten metal into tin moulds the shape of
half-crowns he would not have been half so astonished as he was at the
spectacle now revealed.

At first he could see little, because the hole had unfortunately been
made a little too high, so that the eye of the detective could only see
the Prodigal Son in a shiny frame on the opposite wall. But Oswald held
on to the window-frame and stood on tiptoe and then he _saw_.

There was no furnace, and no base metal, no bearded men in leathern
aprons with tongs and things, but just a table with a table-cloth on it
for supper, and a tin of salmon and a lettuce and some bottled beer. And
there on a chair was the cloak and the hat of the mysterious stranger,
and the two people sitting at the table were the two youngest grown-up
daughters of the lady next door, and one of them was saying
And the other said
And all the time Oswald was looking Dicky was pulling at his jacket to
make him get down and let Dicky have a squint. And just as she said
Dicky pulled too hard and Oswald felt himself toppling on the
giddy verge of the big flower-pots. Putting forth all his strength our
hero strove to recover his equi-what's-its-name, but it was now lost
beyond recall
he said, then he fell heavily among the
flower-pots piled below. He heard them crash and rattle and crack, and
then his head struck against an iron pillar used for holding up the
next-door veranda. His eyes closed and he knew no more.

Now you will perhaps expect that at this moment Alice would have cried
If you think so you little know what girls are. Directly she
was left alone in that tree she made a bolt to tell Albert's uncle all
about it and bring him to our rescue in case the coiner's gang was a
very desperate one. And just when I fell, Albert's uncle was getting
over the wall. Alice never screamed at all when Oswald fell, but Dicky
thinks he heard Albert's uncle say
which would
not have been kind or polite, so I hope he did not say it.

The people next door did not come out to see what the row was. Albert's
uncle did not wait for them to come out. He picked up Oswald and carried
the insensible body of the gallant young detective to the wall, laid it
on the top, and then climbed over and bore his lifeless burden into our
house and put it on the sofa in Father's study. Father was out, so
we needn't have _crept_ so when we were getting into the garden. Then
Oswald was restored to consciousness, and his head tied up, and sent
to bed, and next day there was a lump on his young brow as big as a
turkey's egg, and very uncomfortable.

Albert's uncle came in next day and talked to each of us separately.
To Oswald he said many unpleasant things about ungentlemanly to spy on
ladies, and about minding your own business; and when I began to tell
him what I had heard he told me to shut up, and altogether he made me
more uncomfortable than the bump did.

Oswald did not say anything to any one, but next day, as the shadows of
eve were falling, he crept away, and wrote on a piece of paper
and shoved it through the hole like a heart in the top
of the next-door shutters. And the youngest young lady put an eye to
the heart-shaped hole, and then opened the shutter and said
very
crossly. Then Oswald said
Then the lady frowned and then she laughed, and then she said
And then she talked to me a bit, and presently she said she and her
sister had not wished people to know they were at home, because -- And
then she stopped short and grew very red, and I said
The lady got redder still, and then she laughed and said
Then she kissed me, and I did not mind. And then she
said
When we had got that four shillings by digging for treasure we ought, by
rights, to have tried Dicky's idea of answering the advertisement about
ladies and gentlemen and spare time and two pounds a week, but there
were several things we rather wanted.

Dora wanted a new pair of scissors, and she said she was going to get
them with her eight-pence. But Alice said
It was quite true, though I had almost forgotten it, but then it was H.
O. who jammed the marble into the thimble first of all. So I said
s fault as much as mine, anyhow. Why shouldn't he pay?'

Oswald didn't so much mind paying for the beastly scissors, but he hates
injustice of every kind
said Dicky, and of course H. O. said he wasn't
a little kid, and it very nearly came to being a row between them. But
Oswald knows when to be generous; so he said
H. O. agreed: he is not at all a mean kid, but I found out afterwards
that Alice paid his share out of her own money.

Then we wanted some new paints, and Noel wanted a pencil and a halfpenny
account-book to write poetry with, and it does seem hard never to have
any apples. So, somehow or other nearly all the money got spent, and we
agreed that we must let the advertisement run loose a little longer
Alice said
And I was a little afraid myself, because it seemed such a splendid
chance; but we looked in the paper every day, and the advertisement was
always there, so we thought it was all right.

Then we had the detective try-on -- and it proved no go; and then, when
all the money was gone, except a halfpenny of mine and twopence of
Noel's and three-pence of Dicky's and a few pennies that the girls had
left, we held another council.

Dora was sewing the buttons on H. O.'s Sunday things. He got himself a
knife with his money, and he cut every single one of his best buttons
off. You've no idea how many buttons there are on a suit. Dora counted
them. There are twenty-four, counting the little ones on the sleeves
that don't undo.

Alice was trying to teach Pincher to beg; but he has too much sense
when he knows you've got nothing in your hands, and the rest of us were
roasting potatoes under the fire. We had made a fire on purpose,
though it was rather warm. They are very good if you cut away the burnt
parts -- but you ought to wash them first, or you are a dirty boy
said Dicky
said Oswald. It was his own idea, but he didn't insist on doing it,
though he is next to the eldest, for he knows it is bad manners to make
people do what you want, when they would rather not
Alice asked
said Noel sleepily. He was lying on his
back on the sofa, kicking his legs
Dicky asked that, and it
was rather sensible of him, because when Noel came to look there were
only seven of his poems that any of us could understand. There was the
'Wreck of the Malabar', and the poem he wrote when Eliza took us to hear
the Reviving Preacher, and everybody cried, and Father said it must have
been the Preacher's Eloquence. So Noel wrote:

    O Eloquence and what art thou?
    Ay what art thou? because we cried
    And everybody cried inside
    When they came out their eyes were red --
    And it was your doing Father said.

But Noel told Alice he got the first line and a half from a book a boy
at school was going to write when he had time. Besides this there were
the
O Beetle how I weep to see
       Thee lying on thy poor back!
    It is so very sad indeed.
       You were so shiny and black.
    I wish you were alive again
    But Eliza says wishing it is nonsense and a shame.

It was very good beetle poison, and there were hundreds of them lying
dead -- but Noel only wrote a piece of poetry for one of them. He said he
hadn't time to do them all, and the worst of it was he didn't know which
one he'd written it to -- so Alice couldn't bury the beetle and put the
lines on its grave, though she wanted to very much.

Well, it was quite plain that there wasn't enough poetry for a book
said Noel
said Dicky
said Alice
Dicky thought of that; he often thinks of things
that are really important, even if they are a little dull
That was Dora; but Noel said he
wouldn't mind if he didn't get paid, so long as he saw his poetry
printed and his name at the end
said Oswald. He is always willing to give other
people's ideas a fair trial.

So we copied out
and the other six poems on
drawing-paper -- Dora did it, she writes best -- and Oswald drew a picture
of the Malabar going down with all hands. It was a full-rigged schooner,
and all the ropes and sails were correct; because my cousin is in the
Navy, and he showed me.

We thought a long time whether we'd write a letter and send it by post
with the poetry -- and Dora thought it would be best. But Noel said he
couldn't bear not to know at once if the paper would print the poetry,
So we decided to take it.

I went with Noel, because I am the eldest, and he is not old enough to
go to London by himself. Dicky said poetry was rot -- and he was glad he
hadn't got to make a fool of himself. That was because there was not
enough money for him to go with us. H. O. couldn't come either, but
he came to the station to see us off, and waved his cap and called out
as the train started.

There was a lady in spectacles in the corner. She was writing with a
pencil on the edges of long strips of paper that had print all down
them. When the train started she asked
So Oswald answered
the lady said
We were pleased, too, to meet some one who knew the Jungle Book.

So Oswald said
The lady laughed -- she was awfully jolly -- and said she was a sort of
poet, too, and the long strips of paper were the proofs of her new book
of stories. Because before a book is made into a real book with pages
and a cover, they sometimes print it all on strips of paper, and the
writer make marks on it with a pencil to show the printers what idiots
they are not to understand what a writer means to have printed.

We told her all about digging for treasure, and what we meant to do.
Then she asked to see Noel's poetry -- and he said he didn't like -- so she
said
So he agreed.

The jolly lady read Noel's poetry, and she said she liked it very much.
And she thought a great deal of the picture of the Malabar. And then she
said
She gave it
to us -- and so I can copy it down, and I will, for it shows that some
grown-up ladies are not so silly as others. I like it better than Noel's
poetry, though I told him I did not, because he looked as if he was
going to cry. This was very wrong, for you should always speak the
truth, however unhappy it makes people. And I generally do. But I did
not want him crying in the railway carriage. The lady's piece of poetry:

    Oh when I wake up in my bed
    And see the sun all fat and red,
    I'm glad to have another day
    For all my different kinds of play.

    There are so many things to do --
    The things that make a man of you,
    If grown-ups did not get so vexed
    And wonder what you will do next.

    I often wonder whether they
    Ever made up our kinds of play --
    If they were always good as gold
    And only did what they were told.

    They like you best to play with tops
    And toys in boxes, bought in shops;
    They do not even know the names
    Of really interesting games.

    They will not let you play with fire
    Or trip your sister up with wire,
    They grudge the tea-tray for a drum,
    Or booby-traps when callers come.

    They don't like fishing, and it's true
    You sometimes soak a suit or two:
    They look on fireworks, though they're dry,
    With quite a disapproving eye.

    They do not understand the way
    To get the most out of your day:
    They do not know how hunger feels
    Nor what you need between your meals.

    And when you're sent to bed at night,
    They're happy, but they're not polite.
    For through the door you hear them say
She told us a lot of other pieces but I cannot remember them, and she
talked to us all the way up, and when we got nearly to Cannon Street she
said
Noel said
and was going to take the shilling. But Oswald,
who always remembers what he is told, said
said the lady -- she didn't talk a bit like a real
lady, but more like a jolly sort of grown-up boy in a dress and hat
I didn't know what to say, and she went on
So we took the shillings, and she shook hands with us and said
We did tell Father about it, and he said it was all right, and when
he looked at the card he told us we were highly honoured, for the lady
wrote better poetry than any other lady alive now. We had never heard of
her, and she seemed much too jolly for a poet. Good old Kipling! We owe
him those two shillings, as well as the Jungle books
It was not bad sport -- being in London entirely on our own hook. We asked
the way to Fleet Street, where Father says all the newspaper offices
are. They said straight on down Ludgate Hill -- but it turned out to be
quite another way. At least _we_ didn't go straight on.

We got to St Paul's. Noel _would_ go in, and we saw where Gordon was
buried -- at least the monument. It is very flat, considering what a man
he was.

When we came out we walked a long way, and when we asked a policeman he
said we'd better go back through Smithfield. So we did. They don't burn
people any more there now, so it was rather dull, besides being a long
way, and Noel got very tired. He's a peaky little chap; it comes of
being a poet, I think. We had a bun or two at different shops -- out of
the shillings -- and it was quite late in the afternoon when we got to
Fleet Street. The gas was lighted and the electric lights. There is a
jolly Bovril sign that comes off and on in different coloured lamps. We
went to the Daily Recorder office, and asked to see the Editor. It is a
big office, very bright, with brass and mahogany and electric lights.

They told us the Editor wasn't there, but at another office. So we went
down a dirty street, to a very dull-looking place. There was a man there
inside, in a glass case, as if he was a museum, and he told us to write
down our names and our business. So Oswald wrote --

           OSWALD BASTABLE
            NOEL BASTABLE
      BUSINESS VERY PRIVATE INDEED

Then we waited on the stone stairs; it was very draughty. And the man in
the glass case looked at us as if we were the museum instead of him. We
waited a long time, and then a boy came down and said
And he
laughed. I wanted to punch his head.

But Noel said
The boy said he'd better write by post. But Noel is a bit pig-headed;
it's his worst fault. So he said
So I backed
him up by saying
So the boy grinned, and the man in the glass case gave us pen and paper,
and Noel wrote. Oswald writes better than he does; but Noel would do it;
and it took a very long time, and then it was inky.

    DEAR MR EDITOR, I want you to print my poetry and pay for it,
    and I am a friend of Mrs Leslie's; she is a poet too.

    Your affectionate friend,

    NOEL BASTABLE.

He licked the envelope a good deal, so that that boy shouldn't read it
going upstairs; and he wrote 'Very private' outside, and gave the letter
to the boy. I thought it wasn't any good; but in a minute the grinning
boy came back, and he was quite respectful, and said
We stepped up. There were a lot of stairs and passages, and a queer sort
of humming, hammering sound and a very funny smell. The boy was now very
polite, and said it was the ink we smelt, and the noise was the printing
machines.

After going through a lot of cold passages we came to a door; the boy
opened it, and let us go in. There was a large room, with a big, soft,
blue-and-red carpet, and a roaring fire, though it was only October; and
a large table with drawers, and littered with papers, just like the one
in Father's study. A gentleman was sitting at one side of the table; he
had a light moustache and light eyes, and he looked very young to be an
editor -- not nearly so old as Father. He looked very tired and sleepy,
as if he had got up very early in the morning; but he was kind, and we
liked him. Oswald thought he looked clever. Oswald is considered a judge
of faces
said he
said Noel
I can't think how he could have asked! Oswald is said to be a very
manly-looking boy for his age. However, I thought it would look duffing
to be offended, so I said
Noel had turned quite pale.
He is disgustingly like a girl in some ways. The Editor told us to sit
down, and he took the poems from Noel, and began to read them. Noel got
paler and paler; I really thought he was going to faint, like he did
when I held his hand under the cold-water tap, after I had accidentally
cut him with my chisel. When the Editor had read the first poem -- it was
the one about the beetle -- he got up and stood with his back to us. It
was not manners; but Noel thinks he did it
as
they do in books. He read all the poems, and then he said
said Noel
The gentleman put on some eye-glasses and looked hard at us. Then he sat
down
said he
He rang a tingly bell, and the boy brought in a tray with a teapot and
a thick cup and saucer and things, and he had to fetch another tray for
us, when he was told to; and we had tea with the Editor of the Daily
Recorder. I suppose it was a very proud moment for Noel, though I
did not think of that till afterwards. The Editor asked us a lot of
questions, and we told him a good deal, though of course I did not tell
a stranger all our reasons for thinking that the family fortunes wanted
restoring. We stayed about half an hour, and when we were going away he
said again
Noel said
he asked.

Noel said he didn't know; he supposed because he wanted to
said the Editor, and he seemed quite
delighted, as though Noel had said something clever
he asked.

I have read of people being at a loss for words, and dumb with emotion,
and I've read of people being turned to stone with astonishment, or
joy, or something, but I never knew how silly it looked till I saw Noel
standing staring at the Editor with his mouth open. He went red and he
went white, and then he got crimson, as if you were rubbing more and
more crimson lake on a palette. But he didn't say a word, so Oswald had
to say
So the Editor gave Noel a sovereign and a shilling, and he shook hands
with us both, but he thumped Noel on the back and said
I asked, for Father always takes the
Daily Chronicle, and I didn't know what the Recorder was like. We chose
it because it has such a glorious office, and a clock outside lighted
up
said he
Noel asked him what Celebrities were
said Oswald, wishing he had known Dick
Turpin, or Claude Duval, so as to be able to tell the Editor things
about them
The Editor had sat down again, and he was fiddling
with a blue pencil
said the Editor
The Editor interrupted -- which is considered rude -- and said
said Oswald
said
the Editor.

Oswald drew himself up, and said he wasn't a liar.

The Editor only laughed, and said romancing and lying were not at all
the same; only it was important to know what you were playing at. So
Oswald accepted his apology, and went on
said the Editor, and he got up and put his hand in his
pocket
I pocketed my five bob, and thanked him, and I said we should like it
very much. He called another gentleman and said something we couldn't
hear. Then he said good-bye again; and all this time Noel hadn't said a
word. But now he said
The Editor gave him the blue pencil, and he sat down at the Editor's
table and wrote. It was this, he told me afterwards as well as he could
remember --

    May Life's choicest blessings be your lot
    I think you ought to be very blest
    For you are going to print my poems --
    And you may have this one as well as the rest
said the Editor
Then the other gentleman said something about Maecenas, and we went off
to see the printing office with at least one pound seven in our pockets.

It _was_ good hunting, and no mistake!

But he never put Noel's poetry in the Daily Recorder. It was quite a
long time afterwards we saw a sort of story thing in a magazine, on the
station bookstall, and that kind, sleepy-looking Editor had written it,
I suppose. It was not at all amusing. It said a lot about Noel and me,
describing us all wrong, and saying how we had tea with the Editor;
and all Noel's poems were in the story thing. I think myself the Editor
seemed to make game of them, but Noel was quite pleased to see them
printed -- so that's all right. It wasn't my poetry anyhow, I am glad to
say
She happened quite accidentally. We were not looking for a Princess at
all just then; but Noel had said he was going to find a Princess all by
himself; and marry her -- and he really did. Which was rather odd, because
when people say things are going to befall, very often they don't. It
was different, of course, with the prophets of old.

We did not get any treasure by it, except twelve chocolate drops; but we
might have done, and it was an adventure, anyhow.

Greenwich Park is a jolly good place to play in, especially the parts
that aren't near Greenwich. The parts near the Heath are first-rate.
I often wish the Park was nearer our house; but I suppose a Park is a
difficult thing to move.

Sometimes we get Eliza to put lunch in a basket, and we go up to the
Park. She likes that -- it saves cooking dinner for us; and sometimes she
says of her own accord
She always tells us to rinse out the cup at the drinking-fountain, and
the girls do; but I always put my head under the tap and drink. Then you
are an intrepid hunter at a mountain stream -- and besides, you're sure
it's clean. Dicky does the same, and so does H. O. But Noel always
drinks out of the cup. He says it is a golden goblet wrought by
enchanted gnomes.

The day the Princess happened was a fine, hot day, last October, and we
were quite tired with the walk up to the Park.

We always go in by the little gate at the top of Croom's Hill. It is
the postern gate that things always happen at in stories. It was dusty
walking, but when we got in the Park it was ripping, so we rested a bit,
and lay on our backs, and looked up at the trees, and wished we could
play monkeys. I have done it before now, but the Park-keeper makes a row
if he catches you.

When we'd rested a little, Alice said
said Dicky
Saying buns made us think of lunch, so we had it; and when we had done
we scratched a hole under a tree and buried the papers, because we know
it spoils pretty places to leave beastly, greasy papers lying about. I
remember Mother teaching me and Dora that, when we were quite little.
I wish everybody's parents would teach them this useful lesson, and the
same about orange peel.

When we'd eaten everything there was, Alice whispered
said Noel; so he crept away, and we followed him among
the trees. Often the witch bear was out of sight, and then you didn't
know where it would jump out from; but sometimes we saw it, and just
followed
said Oswald
said Dora. She is the only one of us who likes
doing girl's parts
said Alice
whispered Alice
And I saw a bit of white too. It was Noel's collar, and it had come
undone at the back.

We hunted the bear in and out of the trees, and then we lost him
altogether; and suddenly we found the wall of the Park -- in a place where
I'm sure there wasn't a wall before. Noel wasn't anywhere about, and
there was a door in the wall. And it was open; so we went through
Oswald said
So I drew the umbrella, which Dora always will bring in case it rains,
because Noel gets a cold on the chest at the least thing -- and we went
on.

The other side of the wall it was a stable yard, all cobble-stones.

There was nobody about -- but we could hear a man rubbing down a horse
and hissing in the stable; so we crept very quietly past, and Alice
whispered
We went over the stones on tiptoe, and we found another wall with
another door in it on the other side. We went through that too, on
tiptoe. It really was an adventure. And there we were in a shrubbery,
and we saw something white through the trees. Dora said it was the white
bear. That is so like Dora. She always begins to take part in a play
just when the rest of us are getting tired of it. I don't mean this
unkindly, because I am very fond of Dora. I cannot forget how kind she
was when I had bronchitis; and ingratitude is a dreadful vice. But it is
quite true
said Oswald; and we all went on, still on tiptoe,
round a twisty path and on to a lawn, and there was Noel. His collar had
come undone, as I said, and he had an inky mark on his face that he made
just before we left the house, and he wouldn't let Dora wash it off,
and one of his bootlaces was coming down. He was standing looking at a
little girl; she was the funniest little girl you ever saw.

She was like a china doll -- the sixpenny kind; she had a white face, and
long yellow hair, done up very tight in two pigtails; her forehead was
very big and lumpy, and her cheeks came high up, like little shelves
under her eyes. Her eyes were small and blue. She had on a funny black
frock, with curly braid on it, and button boots that went almost up to
her knees. Her legs were very thin. She was sitting in a hammock chair
nursing a blue kitten -- not a sky-blue one, of course, but the colour
of a new slate pencil. As we came up we heard her say to Noel
Noel had forgotten about the bear, and he was taking his favourite part,
so he said
The funny little girl looked pleased
she said. Then she saw the
rest of us and said
Of course we said
and she said
She said it very well too, exactly as if it were
true. We were very glad, because it is so seldom you meet any children
who can begin to play right off without having everything explained to
them. And even then they will say they are going to 'pretend to be' a
lion, or a witch, or a king. Now this little girl just said
Then she looked at Oswald and said
Of course Oswald said
The little girl had a funny voice, and all her words were quite plain,
each word by itself; she didn't talk at all like we do.

H. O. asked her what the cat's name was, and she said
Then
Dicky said
The Princess put down the cat very carefully and said
said Dora
said the Princess
Dora said; but Dicky
showed us that there was some more grass beyond the shrubs with only a
gravel path between. So I lifted the Princess over the gravel, so that
she should be able to say she hadn't walked off the grass. When we got
to the other grass we all sat down, and the Princess asked us if
we liked 'dragees' (I know that's how you spell it, for I asked
Albert-next-door's uncle).

We said we thought not, but she pulled a real silver box out of her
pocket and showed us; they were just flat, round chocolates. We had two
each. Then we asked her her name, and she began, and when she began she
went on, and on, and on, till I thought she was never going to stop. H.
O. said she had fifty names, but Dicky is very good at figures, and he
says there were only eighteen. The first were Pauline, Alexandra, Alice,
and Mary was one, and Victoria, for we all heard that, and it ended
up with Hildegarde Cunigonde something or other, Princess of something
else.

When she'd done, H. O. said
and she
did, but even then we couldn't remember it. We told her our names, but
she thought they were too short, so when it was Noel's turn he said he
was Prince Noel Camaralzaman Ivan Constantine Charlemagne James John
Edward Biggs Maximilian Bastable Prince of Lewisham, but when she asked
him to say it again of course he could only get the first two names
right, because he'd made it up as he went on.

So the Princess said
She was very grave and serious.

She told us that she was the fifth cousin of Queen Victoria. We asked
who the other cousins were, but she did not seem to understand. She went
on and said she was seven times removed. She couldn't tell us what that
meant either, but Oswald thinks it means that the Queen's cousins are
so fond of her that they will keep coming bothering, so the Queen's
servants have orders to remove them. This little girl must have been
very fond of the Queen to try so often to see her, and to have been
seven times removed. We could see that it is considered something to
be proud of; but we thought it was hard on the Queen that her cousins
wouldn't let her alone.

Presently the little girl asked us where our maids and governesses were.

We told her we hadn't any just now. And she said
said Dora
said the little girl. She sat very upright on
the grass, with her fat little hands in her lap
H. O. said
said the Princess again, and when she looked
sad the shelves on her cheeks showed more than ever. You could have laid
a sixpence on them quite safely if you had had one
said Noel
But the little girl shook her head and said she was afraid it
would not be correct.

Dora said she was quite right; then all of a sudden came one of those
uncomfortable times when nobody can think of anything to say, so we sat
and looked at each other. But at last Alice said we ought to be going
the little girl said
said Noel.

The little girl looked at him very queerly, and said
Then Noel said he thought it was about time he was married if we were to
be home in time for tea. The little girl was rather stupid over it,
but she did what we told her, and we married them with Dora's
pocket-handkerchief for a veil, and the ring off the back of one of the
buttons on H. O.'s blouse just went on her little finger.

Then we showed her how to play cross-touch, and puss in the corner,
and tag. It was funny, she didn't know any games but battledore and
shuttlecock and les graces. But she really began to laugh at last and
not to look quite so like a doll.

She was Puss and was running after Dicky when suddenly she stopped short
and looked as if she was going to cry. And we looked too, and there were
two prim ladies with little mouths and tight hair. One of them said in
quite an awful voice
and her voice
was gruff; with very curly R's.

The little girl said we were Princes and Princesses -- which was silly, to
a grown-up person that is not a great friend of yours.

The gruff lady gave a short, horrid laugh, like a husky bark, and said
Dora turned very red and began to speak, but the little girl cried out
And she ran at us, and began to kiss us one by one, beginning
with Alice; she had got to H. O. when the horrid lady said
The little girl answered
Then the prim lady said
And the little girl was carried away screaming, and kicking with her
little thin legs and her buttoned boots, and between her screams she
shrieked
The nasty lady then remarked
So we went. H. O. made a face at her and so did Alice, but Oswald took
off his cap and said he was sorry if she was annoyed about anything;
for Oswald has always been taught to be polite to ladies, however nasty.
Dicky took his off, too, when he saw me do it; he says he did it first,
but that is a mistake. If I were really a common boy I should say it was
a lie.

Then we all came away, and when we got outside Dora said
said Dicky
said Alice.

H. O. said he would have liked to ask her what she had for dinner and
whether she had a crown.

I felt, myself, we had lost a chance of finding out a great deal about
kings and queens. I might have known such a stupid-looking little girl
would never have been able to pretend, as well as that.

So we all went home across the Heath, and made dripping toast for tea.

When we were eating it Noel said
He sighed as he said it, and his mouth was very full, so we knew he was
thinking of his Princess. He says now that she was as beautiful as the
day, but we remember her quite well, and she was nothing of the kind
Noel was quite tiresome for ever so long after we found the Princess. He
would keep on wanting to go to the Park when the rest of us didn't, and
though we went several times to please him, we never found that door
open again, and all of us except him knew from the first that it would
be no go.

So now we thought it was time to do something to rouse him from the
stupor of despair, which is always done to heroes when anything baffling
has occurred. Besides, we were getting very short of money again -- the
fortunes of your house cannot be restored (not so that they will last,
that is), even by the one pound eight we got when we had the
We spent a good deal of that on presents for Father's
birthday. We got him a paper-weight, like a glass bun, with a picture
of Lewisham Church at the bottom; and a blotting-pad, and a box of
preserved fruits, and an ivory penholder with a view of Greenwich
Park in the little hole where you look through at the top. He was most
awfully pleased and surprised, and when he heard how Noel and Oswald had
earned the money to buy the things he was more surprised still. Nearly
all the rest of our money went to get fireworks for the Fifth of
November. We got six Catherine wheels and four rockets; two hand-lights,
one red and one green; a sixpenny maroon; two Roman-candles -- they cost
a shilling; some Italian streamers, a fairy fountain, and a tourbillon
that cost eighteen-pence and was very nearly worth it.

But I think crackers and squibs are a mistake. It's true you get a lot
of them for the money, and they are not bad fun for the first two or
three dozen, but you get jolly sick of them before you've let off your
sixpenn'orth. And the only amusing way is not allowed: it is putting
them in the fire.

It always seems a long time till the evening when you have got fireworks
in the house, and I think as it was a rather foggy day we should have
decided to let them off directly after breakfast, only Father had said
he would help us to let them off at eight o'clock after he had had his
dinner, and you ought never to disappoint your father if you can help
it.

You see we had three good reasons for trying H. O.'s idea of restoring
the fallen fortunes of our house by becoming bandits on the Fifth of
November. We had a fourth reason as well, and that was the best reason
of the lot. You remember Dora thought it would be wrong to be bandits.
And the Fifth of November came while Dora was away at Stroud staying
with her godmother. Stroud is in Gloucestershire. We were determined to
do it while she was out of the way, because we did not think it wrong,
and besides we meant to do it anyhow.

We held a Council, of course, and laid our plans very carefully. We let
H. O. be Captain, because it was his idea. Oswald was Lieutenant. Oswald
was quite fair, because he let H. O. call himself Captain; but Oswald is
the eldest next to Dora, after all.

Our plan was this. We were all to go up on to the Heath. Our house is in
the Lewisham Road, but it's quite close to the Heath if you cut up the
short way opposite the confectioner's, past the nursery gardens and
the cottage hospital, and turn to the left again and afterwards to the
right. You come out then at the top of the hill, where the big guns are
with the iron fence round them, and where the bands play on Thursday
evenings in the summer.

We were to lurk in ambush there, and waylay an unwary traveller. We were
to call upon him to surrender his arms, and then bring him home and put
him in the deepest dungeon below the castle moat; then we were to load
him with chains and send to his friends for ransom.

You may think we had no chains, but you are wrong, because we used
to keep two other dogs once, besides Pincher, before the fall of the
fortunes of the ancient House of Bastable. And they were quite big dogs.

It was latish in the afternoon before we started. We thought we could
lurk better if it was nearly dark. It was rather foggy, and we waited
a good while beside the railings, but all the belated travellers were
either grown up or else they were Board School children. We weren't
going to get into a row with grown-up people -- especially strangers -- and
no true bandit would ever stoop to ask a ransom from the relations of
the poor and needy. So we thought it better to wait.

As I said, it was Guy Fawkes Day, and if it had not been we should never
have been able to be bandits at all, for the unwary traveller we did
catch had been forbidden to go out because he had a cold in his head.
But he would run out to follow a guy, without even putting on a coat or
a comforter, and it was a very damp, foggy afternoon and nearly dark, so
you see it was his own fault entirely, and served him jolly well right.

We saw him coming over the Heath just as we were deciding to go home
to tea. He had followed that guy right across to the village (we call
Blackheath the village; I don't know why), and he was coming back
dragging his feet and sniffing
whispered Oswald
muttered Alice. She always will play boys' parts, and she makes Ellis
cut her hair short on purpose. Ellis is a very obliging hairdresser
said Noel; 'for lo
So we ran out and surrounded the unwary traveller. It turned out to be
Albert-next-door, and he was very frightened indeed until he saw who we
were
hissed Oswald, in a desperate-sounding voice, as he caught
the arm of the Unwary. And Albert-next-door said
We explained to him that resistance was useless, and I think he saw that
from the first. We held him tight by both arms, and we marched him home
down the hill in a hollow square of five.

He wanted to tell us about the guy, but we made him see that it was not
proper for prisoners to talk to the guard, especially about guys that
the prisoner had been told not to go after because of his cold.

When we got to where we live he said
said H. O. It was very rude, and Oswald told him so
at once, because it is his duty as an elder brother. But H. O. is very
young and does not know better yet, and besides it wasn't bad for H. O.

Albert-next-door said
But Alice told him, quite kindly, that he was not going in to his tea,
but coming with us
said Albert-next-door
Then he tried to cough, which was
very silly, because we'd seen him in the morning, and he'd told us where
the cold was that he wasn't to go out with. When he had tried to cough,
he said
said Dicky
said Noel
By this time Eliza had opened the door, and we thought it best to take
him in without any more parlaying. To parley with a prisoner is not done
by bandits.

Directly we got him safe into the nursery, H. O. began to jump about and
say
And Albert-next-door began to cry. He always does. I wonder he didn't
begin long before -- but Alice fetched him one of the dried fruits we
gave Father for his birthday. It was a green walnut. I have noticed
the walnuts and the plums always get left till the last in the box; the
apricots go first, and then the figs and pears; and the cherries, if
there are any.

So he ate it and shut up. Then we explained his position to him, so that
there should be no mistake, and he couldn't say afterwards that he had
not understood
said Oswald -- he was now Captain of the
Bandits, because we all know H. O. likes to be Chaplain when we
play prisoners
But Albert-next-door never enters into the spirit of a thing. He mumbled
something about tea-time.

Now Oswald, though stern, is always just, and besides we were all rather
hungry, and tea was ready. So we had it at once, Albert-next-door and
all -- and we gave him what was left of the four-pound jar of apricot jam
we got with the money Noel got for his poetry. And we saved our crusts
for the prisoner.

Albert-next-door was very tiresome. Nobody could have had a nicer prison
than he had. We fenced him into a corner with the old wire nursery
fender and all the chairs, instead of putting him in the coal-cellar
as we had first intended. And when he said the dog-chains were cold the
girls were kind enough to warm his fetters thoroughly at the fire before
we put them on him.

We got the straw cases of some bottles of wine someone sent Father
one Christmas -- it is some years ago, but the cases are quite good. We
unpacked them very carefully and pulled them to pieces and scattered
the straw about. It made a lovely straw pallet, and took ever so long to
make -- but Albert-next-door has yet to learn what gratitude really is.
We got the bread trencher for the wooden platter where the prisoner's
crusts were put -- they were not mouldy, but we could not wait till they
got so, and for the ewer we got the toilet jug out of the spare-room
where nobody ever sleeps. And even then Albert-next-door couldn't be
happy like the rest of us. He howled and cried and tried to get out, and
he knocked the ewer over and stamped on the mouldering crusts. Luckily
there was no water in the ewer because we had forgotten it, only dust
and spiders. So we tied him up with the clothes-line from the back
kitchen, and we had to hurry up, which was a pity for him. We might have
had him rescued by a devoted page if he hadn't been so tiresome. In fact
Noel was actually dressing up for the page when Albert-next-door kicked
over the prison ewer.

We got a sheet of paper out of an old exercise-book, and we made H. O.
prick his own thumb, because he is our little brother and it is our duty
to teach him to be brave. We none of us mind pricking ourselves; we've
done it heaps of times. H. O. didn't like it, but he agreed to do it,
and I helped him a little because he was so slow, and when he saw the
red bead of blood getting fatter and bigger as I squeezed his thumb he
was very pleased, just as I had told him he would be.

This is what we wrote with H. O.'s blood, only the blood gave out when
we got to 'Restored', and we had to write the rest with crimson lake,
which is not the same colour, though I always use it, myself, for
painting wounds.

While Oswald was writing it he heard Alice whispering to the prisoner
that it would soon be over, and it was only play. The prisoner left off
howling, so I pretended not to hear what she said. A Bandit Captain has
to overlook things sometimes. This was the letter
I was not sure about the last part, but Dicky was certain he had seen it
in the paper, so I suppose it must have been all right.

We let H. O. take the letter; it was only fair, as it was his blood it
was written with, and told him to leave it next door for Mrs Morrison.

H. O. came back quite quickly, and Albert-next-door's uncle came with
him
he cried
said H. O
said Albert-next-door's uncle
Albert said it wasn't his fault, and he hadn't wanted to play
said his uncle
We explained the dungeon, and showed him the straw pallet and the ewer
and the mouldering crusts and other things
he said
Albert began to cry again and said he was sorry, and he would be a good
boy
We said perhaps we could
suggested Albert-next-door's uncle
said Alice as he held it out
When Albert-next-door had gone his uncle sat in the Guy Fawkes armchair
and took Alice on his knee, and we sat round the fire waiting till it
would be time to let off our fireworks. We roasted the chestnuts he
sent Dicky out for, and he told us stories till it was nearly seven. His
stories are first-rate -- he does all the parts in different voices. At
last he said
said H. O. But I knew what
Albert-next-door's uncle meant because I am much older than H. O. He
went on
He only talks like that when he is very serious, or even angry. Other
times he talks like people in books -- to us, I mean.

We none of us said anything. But I was thinking. Then Alice spoke.

Girls seem not to mind saying things that we don't say. She put her arms
round Albert-next-door's uncle's neck and said
Just then we heard Father's key in the door and Albert-next-door's uncle
kissed Alice and put her down, and we all went down to meet Father. As
we went I thought I heard Albert-next-door's uncle say something that
sounded like
He couldn't have meant us, when we'd been having such a jolly time, and
chestnuts, and fireworks to look forward to after dinner and everything
It was Albert's uncle who thought of our trying a newspaper. He said he
thought we should not find the bandit business a paying industry, as a
permanency, and that journalism might be.

We had sold Noel's poetry and that piece of information about Lord
Tottenham to the good editor, so we thought it would not be a bad idea
to have a newspaper of our own. We saw plainly that editors must be very
rich and powerful, because of the grand office and the man in the glass
case, like a museum, and the soft carpets and big writing-table. Besides
our having seen a whole handful of money that the editor pulled out
quite carelessly from his trousers pocket when he gave me my five bob.

Dora wanted to be editor and so did Oswald, but he gave way to her
because she is a girl, and afterwards he knew that it is true what it
says in the copy-books about Virtue being its own Reward. Because you've
no idea what a bother it is. Everybody wanted to put in everything just
as they liked, no matter how much room there was on the page. It was
simply awful! Dora put up with it as long as she could and then she said
if she wasn't let alone she wouldn't go on being editor; they could be
the paper's editors themselves, so there.

Then Oswald said, like a good brother
and she said
But she didn't, and we did it together. We let Albert-next-door be
sub-editor, because he had hurt his foot with a nail in his boot that
gathered.

When it was done Albert-next-door's uncle had it copied for us in
typewriting, and we sent copies to all our friends, and then of course
there was no one left that we could ask to buy it. We did not think of
that until too late. We called the paper the Lewisham Recorder; Lewisham
because we live there, and Recorder in memory of the good editor. I
could write a better paper on my head, but an editor is not allowed to
write all the paper. It is very hard, but he is not. You just have to
fill up with what you can get from other writers. If I ever have time I
will write a paper all by myself. It won't be patchy. We had no time to
make it an illustrated paper, but I drew the ship going down with all
hands for the first copy. But the typewriter can't draw ships, so it was
left out in the other copies. The time the first paper took to write out
no one would believe! This was the Newspaper:

          THE LEWISHAM RECORDER

    EDITORS:  DORA AND OSWALD BASTABLE

             ------------             EDITORIAL NOTE

Every paper is written for some reason. Ours is because we want to sell
it and get money. If what we have written brings happiness to any sad
heart we shall not have laboured in vain. But we want the money too.
Many papers are content with the sad heart and the happiness, but we are
not like that, and it is best not to be deceitful. EDITORS.

There will be two serial stories; One by Dicky and one by all of us. In
a serial story you only put in one chapter at a time. But we shall put
all our serial story at once, if Dora has time to copy it. Dicky's will
come later on.

            SERIAL STORY
             BY US ALL

         CHAPTER I -- by Dora

The sun was setting behind a romantic-looking tower when two strangers
might have been observed descending the crest of the hill. The eldest,
a man in the prime of life; the other a handsome youth who reminded
everybody of Quentin Durward. They approached the Castle, in which the
fair Lady Alicia awaited her deliverers. She leaned from the castellated
window and waved her lily hand as they approached. They returned her
signal, and retired to seek rest and refreshment at a neighbouring
hostelry.

             ------------         CHAPTER II -- by Alice

The Princess was very uncomfortable in the tower, because her fairy
godmother had told her all sorts of horrid things would happen if she
didn't catch a mouse every day, and she had caught so many mice that now
there were hardly any left to catch. So she sent her carrier pigeon to
ask the noble Strangers if they could send her a few mice -- because she
would be of age in a few days and then it wouldn't matter. So the fairy
godmother --- (I'm very sorry, but there's no room to make the chapters
any longer.-ED.)

             ------------         CHAPTER III -- by the Sub-Editor

(I can't -- I'd much rather not -- I don't know how.)

            ------------         CHAPTER IV -- by Dicky

I must now retrace my steps and tell you something about our hero. You
must know he had been to an awfully jolly school, where they had turkey
and goose every day for dinner, and never any mutton, and as many helps
of pudding as a fellow cared to send up his plate for -- so of course they
had all grown up very strong, and before he left school he challenged
the Head to have it out man to man, and he gave it him, I tell you. That
was the education that made him able to fight Red Indians, and to be the
stranger who might have been observed in the first chapter.

             ------------         CHAPTER V -- by Noel

I think it's time something happened in this story. So then the dragon
he came out, blowing fire out of his nose, and he said
That's bad English.-- ED. I don't care; it's what the dragon said. Who
told you dragons didn't talk bad English?-- Noel.)

So the hero, whose name was Noeloninuris, replied
Don't put in so much poetry, Noel. It's not fair, because none of the
others can do it.-- ED.)

And then they went at it, and he beat the dragon, just as he did the
Head in Dicky's part of the Story, and so he married the Princess, and
they lived --- (No they didn't -- not till the last chapter.-- ED.)

             ------------         CHAPTER VI -- by H. O.

I think it's a very nice Story -- but what about the mice? I don't want to
say any more. Dora can have what's left of my chapter.

             ------------         CHAPTER VII -- by the Editors

And so when the dragon was dead there were lots of mice, because he used
to kill them for his tea but now they rapidly multiplied and ravaged the
country, so the fair lady Alicia, sometimes called the Princess, had
to say she would not marry any one unless they could rid the country of
this plague of mice. Then the Prince, whose real name didn't begin
with N, but was Osrawalddo, waved his magic sword, and the dragon stood
before them, bowing gracefully. They made him promise to be good, and
then they forgave him; and when the wedding breakfast came, all the
bones were saved for him. And so they were married and lived happy ever
after.

(What became of the other stranger?-- NOEL. The dragon ate him because he
asked too many questions.-- EDITORS.)

This is the end of the story.

            INSTRUCTIVE

It only takes four hours and a quarter now to get from London to
Manchester; but I should not think any one would if they could help it.

A DREADFUL WARNING. A wicked boy told me a very instructive thing about
ginger. They had opened one of the large jars, and he happened to take
out quite a lot, and he made it all right by dropping marbles in, till
there was as much ginger as before. But he told me that on the Sunday,
when it was coming near the part where there is only juice generally, I
had no idea what his feelings were. I don't see what he could have said
when they asked him. I should be sorry to act like it.

             ------------             SCIENTIFIC

Experiments should always be made out of doors. And don't use
benzoline.-- DICKY. (That was when he burnt his eyebrows off.-- ED.)

The earth is 2,400 miles round, and 800 through -- at least I think so,
but perhaps it's the other way.-- DICKY. (You ought to have been sure
before you began.-- ED.)

             ------------            SCIENTIFIC COLUMN

In this so-called Nineteenth Century Science is but too little
considered in the nurseries of the rich and proud. But we are not like
that.

It is not generally known that if you put bits of camphor in luke-warm
water it will move about. If you drop sweet oil in, the camphor will
dart away and then stop moving. But don't drop any till you are tired
of it, because the camphor won't any more afterwards. Much amusement and
instruction is lost by not knowing things like this.

If you put a sixpence under a shilling in a wine-glass, and blow hard
down the side of the glass, the sixpence will jump up and sit on the top
of the shilling. At least I can't do it myself, but my cousin can. He is
in the Navy.

             ------------         ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS

Noel. You are very poetical, but I am sorry to say it will not do.

Alice. Nothing will ever make your hair curl, so it's no use. Some
people say it's more important to tidy up as you go along. I don't mean
you in particular, but every one.

H. O. We never said you were tubby, but the Editor does not know any
cure.

Noel. If there is any of the paper over when this newspaper is finished,
I will exchange it for your shut-up inkstand, or the knife that has the
useful thing in it for taking stones out of horses' feet, but you can't
have it without.

H. O. There are many ways how your steam engine might stop working.
You might ask Dicky. He knows one of them. I think it is the way yours
stopped.

Noel. If you think that by filling the garden with sand you can make
crabs build their nests there you are not at all sensible.

You have altered your poem about the battle of Waterloo so often, that
we cannot read it except where the Duke waves his sword and says some
thing we can't read either. Why did you write it on blotting-paper with
purple chalk?-- ED. (Because YOU KNOW WHO sneaked my pencil.-- NOEL.)

             ------------             POETRY

    The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold,
    And the way he came down was awful, I'm told;
    But it's nothing to the way one of the Editors comes down on me,
    If I crumble my bread-and-butter or spill my tea.
                                               NOEL.
             ------------             CURIOUS FACTS

If you hold a guinea-pig up by his tail his eyes drop out.

You can't do half the things yourself that children in books do, making
models or soon. I wonder why?-- ALICE.

If you take a date's stone out and put in an almond and eat them
together, it is prime. I found this out.-- SUB-EDITOR.

If you put your wet hand into boiling lead it will not hurt you if you
draw it out quickly enough. I have never tried this.-- DORA.

             ------------           THE PURRING CLASS

         (Instructive Article)

If I ever keep a school everything shall be quite different. Nobody
shall learn anything they don't want to. And sometimes instead of having
masters and mistresses we will have cats, and we will dress up in cat
skins and learn purring
the old cat will say
and we shall purr like anything.

She won't teach us to mew, but we shall know how without teaching.
Children do know some things without being taught.-- ALICE.

             ------------             POETRY
      (Translated into French by Dora)

     Quand j'etais jeune et j'etais fou
     J'achetai un violon pour dix-huit sous
     Et tous les airs que je jouai
     Etait over the hills and far away.

              Another piece of it

     Mercie jolie vache qui fait
     Bon lait pour mon dejeuner
     Tous les matins tous les soirs
     Mon pain je mange, ton lait je boire.

             ------------             RECREATIONS

It is a mistake to think that cats are playful. I often try to get a cat
to play with me, and she never seems to care about the game, no matter
how little it hurts.-- H. O.

Making pots and pans with clay is fun, but do not tell the grown-ups. It
is better to surprise them; and then you must say at once how easily it
washes off -- much easier than ink.-- DICKY.

             ------------    SAM REDFERN, OR THE BUSH RANGER'S BURIAL

             By Dicky
said Mr Ridgway, as he entered
the comfortable dining-room of his cabin in the Bush
responded Annie, a gentle maiden of some sixteen summers.

Just then came a knock at the door of the hut, and a gruff voice asked
them to open the door
said the girl
responded the voice, and the next moment the hall door was
smashed in, and Sam Redfern sprang in, followed by his gang.

             ------------             CHAPTER II

Annie's Father was at once overpowered, and Annie herself lay bound with
cords on the drawing-room sofa. Sam Redfern set a guard round the lonely
hut, and all human aid was despaired of. But you never know. Far away in
the Bush a different scene was being enacted
said a tall man to himself as he pushed his way
through the brushwood. It was Jim Carlton, the celebrated detective
he added
just then ten Indians in full
war-paint appeared. Carlton raised his rifle and fired, and slinging
their scalps on his arm he hastened towards the humble log hut where
resided his affianced bride, Annie Ridgway, sometimes known as the
Flower of the Bush.

             ------------             CHAPTER III

The moon was low on the horizon, and Sam Redfern was seated at a
drinking bout with some of his boon companions.

They had rifled the cellars of the hut, and the rich wines flowed like
water in the golden goblets of Mr Ridgway.

But Annie had made friends with one of the gang, a noble, good-hearted
man who had joined Sam Redfern by mistake, and she had told him to go
and get the police as quickly as possible
cried Redfern
He little knew that
his doom was near upon him.

Just then Annie gave a piercing scream, and Sam Redfern got up, seizing
his revolver
he cried, as a man entered
said the new arrival.

Sam Redfern's revolver dropped from his nerveless fingers, but the next
moment he had sprung upon the detective with the well-known activity of
the mountain sheep, and Annie shrieked, for she had grown to love the
rough Bushranger.

(To be continued at the end of the paper if there is room.)

             ------------             SCHOLASTIC

A new slate is horrid till it is washed in milk. I like the green spots
on them to draw patterns round. I know a good way to make a slate-pencil
squeak, but I won't put it in because I don't want to make it
common.-- SUB-EDITOR.

Peppermint is a great help with arithmetic. The boy who was second in
the Oxford Local always did it. He gave me two. The examiner said to
him
And he said
He told me afterwards it was quite true, because he was only sucking
one. I'm glad I wasn't asked. I should never have thought of that, and I
could have had to say
OSWALD.

             ------------        THE WRECK OF THE 'MALABAR'

             By Noel

(Author of
He isn't really -- but he put
it in to make it seem more real.

    Hark! what is that noise of rolling
       Waves and thunder in the air?
    'Tis the death-knell of the sailors
       And officers and passengers of the good ship Malabar.

    It was a fair and lovely noon
       When the good ship put out of port
    And people said
She was indeed a lovely sight
       Upon the billows with sails spread.
    But the captain folded his gloomy arms,
       Ah -- if she had been a life-boat instead!

    See the captain stern yet gloomy
       Flings his son upon a rock,
    Hoping that there his darling boy
       May escape the wreck.

    Alas in vain the loud winds roared
       And nobody was saved.
    That was the wreck of the Malabar,
       Then let us toll for the brave.
                                    NOEL.

             ------------            GARDENING NOTES

It is useless to plant cherry-stones in the hope of eating the fruit,
because they don't!

Alice won't lend her gardening tools again, because the last time Noel
left them out in the rain, and I don't like it. He said he didn't.

             ------------            SEEDS AND BULBS

These are useful to play at shop with, until you are ready. Not at
dinner-parties, for they will not grow unless uncooked. Potatoes are
not grown with seed, but with chopped-up potatoes. Apple trees are grown
from twigs, which is less wasteful.

Oak trees come from acorns. Every one knows this. When Noel says he
could grow one from a peach stone wrapped up in oak leaves, he shows
that he knows nothing about gardening but marigolds, and when I passed
by his garden I thought they seemed just like weeds now the flowers have
been picked.

A boy once dared me to eat a bulb.

Dogs are very industrious and fond of gardening. Pincher is always
planting bones, but they never grow up. There couldn't be a bone tree.
I think this is what makes him bark so unhappily at night. He has never
tried planting dog-biscuit, but he is fonder of bones, and perhaps he
wants to be quite sure about them first.

             ------------     SAM REDFERN, OR THE BUSHRANGER'S BURIAL

                By Dicky

             ------------         CHAPTER IV AND LAST

This would have been a jolly good story if they had let me finish it at
the beginning of the paper as I wanted to. But now I have forgotten how
I meant it to end, and I have lost my book about Red Indians, and all my
Boys of England have been sneaked. The girls say
so I
expect they did it. They want me just to put in which Annie married, but
I shan't, so they will never know.

We have now put everything we can think of into the paper. It takes a
lot of thinking about. I don't know how grown-ups manage to write all
they do. It must make their heads ache, especially lesson books.

Albert-next-door only wrote one chapter of the serial story, but he
could have done some more if he had wanted to. He could not write out
any of the things because he cannot spell. He says he can, but it takes
him such a long time he might just as well not be able. There are one or
two things more. I am sick of it, but Dora says she will write them in.

LEGAL ANSWER WANTED. A quantity of excellent string is offered if you
know whether there really is a law passed about not buying gunpowder
under thirteen.-- DICKY.

The price of this paper is one shilling each, and sixpence extra for the
picture of the Malabar going down with all hands. If we sell one hundred
copies we will write another paper.

                  *   *   *

And so we would have done, but we never did. Albert-next-door's uncle
gave us two shillings, that was all. You can't restore fallen fortunes
with two shillings
Being editors is not the best way to wealth. We all feel this now, and
highwaymen are not respected any more like they used to be.

I am sure we had tried our best to restore our fallen fortunes. We felt
their fall very much, because we knew the Bastables had been rich once.
Dora and Oswald can remember when Father was always bringing nice things
home from London, and there used to be turkeys and geese and wine and
cigars come by the carrier at Christmas-time, and boxes of candied fruit
and French plums in ornamental boxes with silk and velvet and gilding
on them. They were called prunes, but the prunes you buy at the grocer's
are quite different. But now there is seldom anything nice brought from
London, and the turkey and the prune people have forgotten Father's
address
said Oswald
said H. O
asked Dora quickly
said Alice, quicker still, before
Oswald could say
which would have been rude, and he is glad he didn't
said Dora contemptuously, and I felt more
comfortable; for even after I didn't say
I was afraid Dora was going to come the good elder sister over us. She
does that a jolly sight too often.

Dicky looked up from the paper he was reading and said
and he read out
said Oswald. He is twelve,
and a very thoughtful boy for his age.

Alice looked up from her painting. She was trying to paint a fairy
queen's frock with green bice, and it wouldn't rub. There is something
funny about green bice. It never will rub off; no matter how expensive
your paintbox is -- and even boiling water is very little use.

She said
Oswald went on -- he had done
the sum in his head while Alice was talking
Noel sat sucking his pencil -- he had been writing poetry as usual. I saw
the first two lines --

     I wonder why Green Bice
     Is never very nice.

Suddenly he said
said Dora
said Alice
said I
said Dicky.

I saw H. O. open his mouth, and I knew he was going to say
so I said
Then Dicky said
So we said
and then he read this out of the paper --

     MONEY PRIVATELY WITHOUT FEES
     THE BOND STREET BANK
     Manager, Z. Rosenbaum.

     Advances cash from L20 to L10,000 on ladies' or gentlemen's
     note of hand alone, without security.  No fees.  No inquiries.
     Absolute privacy guaranteed
asked H. O
Dora explained this and Dicky said
And H. O. said he was a
Generous Benefactor, like in Miss Edgeworth. Then Noel wanted to know
what a note of hand was, and Dicky knew that, because he had read it in
a book, and it was just a letter saying you will pay the money when you
can, and signed with your name
said Alice
said Dicky
said Dora.

But the rest of us were sure he hadn't, because, of course, if he had,
there would have been more money to buy nice things. Just then Pincher
jumped up and knocked over the painting-water. He is a very careless
dog. I wonder why painting-water is always such an ugly colour? Dora ran
for a duster to wipe it up, and H. O. dropped drops of the water on his
hands and said he had got the plague. So we played at the plague for a
bit, and I was an Arab physician with a bath-towel turban, and cured
the plague with magic acid-drops. After that it was time for dinner, and
after dinner we talked it all over and settled that we would go and see
the Generous Benefactor the very next day. But we thought perhaps the G.
B.-- it is short for Generous Benefactor -- would not like it if there were
so many of us. I have often noticed that it is the worst of our being
six -- people think six a great many, when it's children. That sentence
looks wrong somehow. I mean they don't mind six pairs of boots, or six
pounds of apples, or six oranges, especially in equations, but they
seem to think you ought not to have five brothers and sisters. Of course
Dicky was to go, because it was his idea. Dora had to go to Blackheath
to see an old lady, a friend of Father's, so she couldn't go. Alice
said _she_ ought to go, because it said
and
perhaps the G. B. wouldn't let us have the money unless there were both
kinds of us.

H. O. said Alice wasn't a lady; and she said _he_ wasn't going, anyway.
Then he called her a disagreeable cat, and she began to cry.

But Oswald always tries to make up quarrels, so he said
And Dora said
Then H. O. said
So Dicky said
So H. O. said he was sorry. Then Alice kissed him and said she was sorry
too; and after that H. O. gave her a hug, and said
So it was all right.

Noel went the last time any of us went to London, so he was out of it,
and Dora said she would take him to Blackheath if we'd take H. O. So as
there'd been a little disagreeableness we thought it was better to take
him, and we did. At first we thought we'd tear our oldest things a bit
more, and put some patches of different colours on them, to show the
G. B. how much we wanted money. But Dora said that would be a sort
of cheating, pretending we were poorer than we are. And Dora is right
sometimes, though she is our elder sister. Then we thought we'd better
wear our best things, so that the G. B. might see we weren't so very
poor that he couldn't trust us to pay his money back when we had it. But
Dora said that would be wrong too. So it came to our being quite honest,
as Dora said, and going just as we were, without even washing our faces
and hands; but when I looked at H. O. in the train I wished we had not
been quite so particularly honest.

Every one who reads this knows what it is like to go in the train, so I
shall not tell about it -- though it was rather fun, especially the part
where the guard came for the tickets at Waterloo, and H. O. was under
the seat and pretended to be a dog without a ticket. We went to Charing
Cross, and we just went round to Whitehall to see the soldiers and then
by St James's for the same reason -- and when we'd looked in the shops a
bit we got to Brook Street, Bond Street. It was a brass plate on a
door next to a shop -- a very grand place, where they sold bonnets and
hats -- all very bright and smart, and no tickets on them to tell you
the price. We rang a bell and a boy opened the door and we asked for Mr
Rosenbaum. The boy was not polite; he did not ask us in. So then Dicky
gave him his visiting card; it was one of Father's really, but the
name is the same, Mr Richard Bastable, and we others wrote our names
underneath. I happened to have a piece of pink chalk in my pocket and we
wrote them with that.

Then the boy shut the door in our faces and we waited on the step. But
presently he came down and asked our business. So Dicky said
And then he made us wait again, till I was quite stiff in my legs, but
Alice liked it because of looking at the hats and bonnets, and at last
the door opened, and the boy said
so we wiped our feet on the mat, which said
so, and we went up stairs with soft carpets and into a room. It was a
beautiful room. I wished then we had put on our best things, or at least
washed a little. But it was too late now.

The room had velvet curtains and a soft, soft carpet, and it was full
of the most splendid things. Black and gold cabinets, and china, and
statues, and pictures. There was a picture of a cabbage and a pheasant
and a dead hare that was just like life, and I would have given worlds
to have it for my own. The fur was so natural I should never have been
tired of looking at it; but Alice liked the one of the girl with
the broken jug best. Then besides the pictures there were clocks and
candlesticks and vases, and gilt looking-glasses, and boxes of cigars
and scent and things littered all over the chairs and tables. It was a
wonderful place, and in the middle of all the splendour was a little old
gentleman with a very long black coat and a very long white beard and a
hookey nose -- like a falcon. And he put on a pair of gold spectacles and
looked at us as if he knew exactly how much our clothes were worth.

And then, while we elder ones were thinking how to begin, for we had
all said 'Good morning' as we came in, of course, H. O. began before we
could stop him. He said
said the little old gentleman
said H. O., and I winked at him to shut up, but he didn't
see me, and the G. B. did. He waved his hand at _me_ to shut up, so I
had to, and H. O. went on
The old gentleman frowned. Then he said
said Dicky
The old gentleman held out the card, and I explained that we took that
because Father's name happens to be the same as Dicky's
said Alice
The old gentleman took off his spectacles and rumpled his hair with his
hands, then he said
Dicky said
said the G. B
said Alice, smiling at him to show she wasn't
frightened, though I know really she was, awfully
said the G. B
He cleared the clocks and vases and candlesticks off some of the chairs,
and we sat down. The chairs were velvety, with gilt legs. It was like a
king's palace
he said
We told him that we should go to school again when Father could manage
it, but meantime we wanted to do something to restore the fallen
fortunes of the House of Bastable. And we said we thought the lucrative
patent would be a very good thing. He asked a lot of questions, and we
told him everything we didn't think Father would mind our telling, and
at last he said
Dicky said.

Then the G. B. said to Oswald
but I explained to
him that it was Dicky's idea, so my being eldest didn't matter. Then he
said to Dicky
Dicky said he wasn't yet, but he had thought of being a mining engineer
some day, and going to Klondike
said the G. B
said Dicky
said the G. B., and Dicky said
Of course he ought to have said
that is what Oswald would have said. It is more polite
than
the G. B repeated
said Dicky, and he got
up off his chair. But the G. B. said
Then he talked some more, and at last he said
said Dicky
said the G. B., 'I'll trust to your honour. Between gentlemen, you
know -- and ladies'-- he made a beautiful bow to Alice
Then he took out a sovereign, and held it in his hand while he talked
to us. He gave us a lot of good advice about not going into business
too young, and about doing our lessons -- just swatting a bit, on our own
hook, so as not to be put in a low form when we went back to school. And
all the time he was stroking the sovereign and looking at it as if he
thought it very beautiful. And so it was, for it was a new one. Then at
last he held it out to Dicky, and when Dicky put out his hand for it the
G. B. suddenly put the sovereign back in his pocket
he said
said H. O.

The G. B. said he'd tell us that when we paid back the sovereign, but
sixty per cent was nothing to be afraid of. He gave Dicky the money. And
the boy was made to call a cab, and the G. B. put us in and shook hands
with us all, and asked Alice to give him a kiss, so she did, and H. O.
would do it too, though his face was dirtier than ever. The G. B. paid
the cabman and told him what station to go to, and so we went home.

That evening Father had a letter by the seven-o'clock post. And when
he had read it he came up into the nursery. He did not look quite so
unhappy as usual, but he looked grave
he said.

So we told him all about it. It took a long time, and Father sat in the
armchair. It was jolly. He doesn't often come and talk to us now. He has
to spend all his time thinking about his business. And when we'd told
him all about it he said
Oswald asked
said my father, frowning a little
he stopped and then said
Of course we said we should be delighted, but then Alice, who was
sitting on his knee, said
Father said
He looked so sad we all said we liked being alone. And then he looked
sadder than ever.

Then Alice said
Then we were all quiet a little while. Father stayed with us till we
went to bed, and when he said good night he looked quite cheerful. So we
told him so, and he said
I can't
think what he meant -- but I am sure the G. B. would be pleased if he
could know he had taken a weight off somebody's mind. He is that sort of
man, I think.

We gave the scent to Dora. It is not quite such good scent as we thought
it would be, but we had fifteen shillings -- and they were all good, so is
the G. B.

And until those fifteen shillings were spent we felt almost as jolly as
though our fortunes had been properly restored. You do not notice your
general fortune so much, as long as you have money in your pocket. This
is why so many children with regular pocket-money have never felt
it their duty to seek for treasure. So, perhaps, our not having
pocket-money was a blessing in disguise. But the disguise was quite
impenetrable, like the villains' in the books; and it seemed still more
so when the fifteen shillings were all spent. Then at last the others
agreed to let Oswald try his way of seeking for treasure, but they were
not at all keen about it, and many a boy less firm than Oswald would
have chucked the whole thing. But Oswald knew that a hero must rely on
himself alone. So he stuck to it, and presently the others saw their
duty, and backed him up
Oswald is a boy of firm and unswerving character, and he had never
wavered from his first idea. He felt quite certain that the books were
right, and that the best way to restore fallen fortunes was to rescue an
old gentleman in distress. Then he brings you up as his own son: but
if you preferred to go on being your own father's son I expect the old
gentleman would make it up to you some other way. In the books the least
thing does it -- you put up the railway carriage window -- or you pick up
his purse when he drops it -- or you say a hymn when he suddenly asks you
to, and then your fortune is made.

The others, as I said, were very slack about it, and did not seem to
care much about trying the rescue. They said there wasn't any deadly
peril, and we should have to make one before we could rescue the old
gentleman from it, but Oswald didn't see that that mattered. However, he
thought he would try some of the easier ways first, by himself.

So he waited about the station, pulling up railway carriage windows for
old gentlemen who looked likely -- but nothing happened, and at last the
porters said he was a nuisance. So that was no go. No one ever asked him
to say a hymn, though he had learned a nice short one, beginning
and when an old gentleman did drop a two-shilling piece
just by Ellis's the hairdresser's, and Oswald picked it up, and was
just thinking what he should say when he returned it, the old gentleman
caught him by the collar and called him a young thief. It would have
been very unpleasant for Oswald if he hadn't happened to be a very
brave boy, and knew the policeman on that beat very well indeed. So the
policeman backed him up, and the old gentleman said he was sorry, and
offered Oswald sixpence. Oswald refused it with polite disdain, and
nothing more happened at all.

When Oswald had tried by himself and it had not come off, he said to the
others
It was dinner-time, and Pincher was going round getting the bits off
the plates. There were plenty because it was cold-mutton day. And Alice
said
Lord Tottenham is the old gentleman who walks over the Heath every day
in a paper collar at three o'clock -- and when he gets halfway, if there
is no one about, he changes his collar and throws the dirty one into the
furze-bushes.

Dicky said
And we couldn't think of any. There are no highwaymen on Blackheath now,
I am sorry to say. And though Oswald said half of us could be highwaymen
and the other half rescue party, Dora kept on saying it would be wrong
to be a highwayman -- and so we had to give that up.

Then Alice said
And we all saw at once that it could be done.

Pincher is very well bred, and he does know one or two things, though we
never could teach him to beg. But if you tell him to hold on -- he will do
it, even if you only say
in a whisper.

So we arranged it all. Dora said she wouldn't play; she said she thought
it was wrong, and she knew it was silly -- so we left her out, and she
went and sat in the dining-room with a goody-book, so as to be able to
say she didn't have anything to do with it, if we got into a row over
it.

Alice and H. O. were to hide in the furze-bushes just by where Lord
Tottenham changes his collar, and they were to whisper
to
Pincher; and then when Pincher had seized Lord Tottenham we were to
go and rescue him from his deadly peril. And he would say
and it would be all right.

So we went up to the Heath. We were afraid of being late. Oswald told
the others what Procrastination was -- so they got to the furze-bushes a
little after two o'clock, and it was rather cold. Alice and H. O. and
Pincher hid, but Pincher did not like it any more than they did, and as
we three walked up and down we heard him whining. And Alice kept saying
And H. O. wanted to come out
and jump about to warm himself. But we told him he must learn to be
a Spartan boy, and that he ought to be very thankful he hadn't got a
beastly fox eating his inside all the time. H. O. is our little brother,
and we are not going to let it be our fault if he grows up a milksop.
Besides, it was not really cold. It was his knees -- he wears socks. So
they stayed where they were. And at last, when even the other three who
were walking about were beginning to feel rather chilly, we saw Lord
Tottenham's big black cloak coming along, flapping in the wind like a
great bird. So we said to Alice
Then we three walked slowly away whistling to show we were not thinking
of anything. Our lips were rather cold, but we managed to do it.

Lord Tottenham came striding along, talking to himself. People call him
the mad Protectionist. I don't know what it means -- but I don't think
people ought to call a Lord such names.

As he passed us he said
And then we looked back and saw he was getting quite near where
Pincher was, and Alice and H. O. We walked on -- so that he shouldn't
think we were looking -- and in a minute we heard Pincher's bark, and then
nothing for a bit; and then we looked round, and sure enough good old
Pincher had got Lord Tottenham by the trouser leg and was holding on
like billy-ho, so we started to run.

Lord Tottenham had got his collar half off -- it was sticking out sideways
under his ear -- and he was shouting
exactly as if
some one had explained to him beforehand what he was to do. Pincher was
growling and snarling and holding on. When we got to him I stopped and
said
Lord Tottenham roared in his fury
something or
othered
So Oswald said
And all the while Pincher was worrying and snarling, and Lord Tottenham
shouting to us to get the dog away. He was dancing about in the road
with Pincher hanging on like grim death; and his collar flapping about,
where it was undone.

Then Noel said
So I said to Lord
Tottenham
He stood still, and I stooped down and caught hold of Pincher and
whispered
So then Pincher dropped it, and Lord Tottenham fastened his collar
again -- he never does change it if there's any one looking -- and he said
But Dicky explained that we are teetotallers, and do not drink people's
healths. So Lord Tottenham said
and he pulled out half a sovereign.

It was very silly; but now we'd done it I felt it would be beastly mean
to take the old boy's chink after putting him in such a funk. He didn't
say anything about bringing us up as his own sons -- so I didn't know what
to do. I let Pincher go, and was just going to say he was very welcome,
and we'd rather not have the money, which seemed the best way out of it,
when that beastly dog spoiled the whole show. Directly I let him go he
began to jump about at us and bark for joy, and try to lick our faces.
He was so proud of what he'd done. Lord Tottenham opened his eyes and he
just said
And then Oswald saw it was all up, and he said
and
tried to get away. But Lord Tottenham said
And he caught Noel by the collar. Noel gave a howl, and
Alice ran out from the bushes. Noel is her favourite. I'm sure I don't
know why. Lord Tottenham looked at her, and he said
And then H. O. came out
Lord Tottenham asked him. And H. O. said
there were only five of us this time.

Lord Tottenham turned sharp off and began to walk away, holding Noel by
the collar. We caught up with him, and asked him where he was going, and
he said
So then I said quite politely
Dicky behaved very well. He said
Lord Tottenham stopped, and he said
Noel was howling all the time, and his face was very white, and
Alice said
said Lord Tottenham, and he
let Noel go. And Alice put her arm round Noel and tried to cheer him up,
but he was all trembly, and as white as paper.

Then Lord Tottenham said
So we said we would
he said, and led the way to a bench. We all followed,
and Pincher too, with his tail between his legs -- he knew something was
wrong. Then Lord Tottenham sat down, and he made Oswald and Dicky and
H. O. stand in front of him, but he let Alice and Noel sit down. And he
said
So I had to say it was most ungentlemanly, but I said I hadn't been
going to take the half-sovereign
he asked
So I said
I was so ashamed I couldn't go on, for it did seem
an awfully mean thing. Lord Tottenham said
We were all crying except Oswald, and the others say he was; and Lord
Tottenham went on
Then Alice slid along the bench close to him, and put her hand on his
arm: her fingers were pink through the holes in her woolly gloves, and
said
Then Lord Tottenham stood up, and he looked like the Death of Nelson,
for he is clean shaved and it is a good face, and he said
And we promised we would remember. Then he took off his hat, and we took
off ours, and he went away, and we went home. I never felt so cheap in
all my life! Dora said
but we didn't mind even that so
much, though it was indeed hard to bear. It was what Lord Tottenham had
said about ungentlemanly. We didn't go on to the Heath for a week after
that; but at last we all went, and we waited for him by the bench. When
he came along Alice said
He sat down on the bench, and we gave him our presents. Oswald gave him
a sixpenny compass -- he bought it with my own money on purpose to give
him. Oswald always buys useful presents. The needle would not move after
I'd had it a day or two, but Lord Tottenham used to be an admiral, so
he will be able to make that go all right. Alice had made him a
shaving-case, with a rose worked on it. And H. O. gave him his
knife -- the same one he once cut all the buttons off his best suit with.
Dicky gave him his prize, Naval Heroes, because it was the best thing he
had, and Noel gave him a piece of poetry he had made himself --

    When sin and shame bow down the brow
    Then people feel just like we do now.
    We are so sorry with grief and pain
    We never will be so ungentlemanly again.

Lord Tottenham seemed very pleased. He thanked us, and talked to us for
a bit, and when he said good-bye he said
and shook hands.

And whenever we meet him he nods to us, and if the girls are with us
he takes off his hat, so he can't really be going on thinking us
ungentlemanly now
One day when we suddenly found that we had half a crown we decided that
we really ought to try Dicky's way of restoring our fallen fortunes
while yet the deed was in our power. Because it might easily have
happened to us never to have half a crown again. So we decided to dally
no longer with being journalists and bandits and things like them, but
to send for sample and instructions how to earn two pounds a week each
in our spare time. We had seen the advertisement in the paper, and we
had always wanted to do it, but we had never had the money to spare
before, somehow. The advertisement says
A good deal
of the half-crown was Dora's. It came from her godmother; but she said
she would not mind letting Dicky have it if he would pay her back before
Christmas, and if we were sure it was right to try to make our fortune
that way. Of course that was quite easy, because out of two pounds a
week in your spare time you can easily pay all your debts, and have
almost as much left as you began with; and as to the right we told her
to dry up.

Dicky had always thought that this was really the best way to restore
our fallen fortunes, and we were glad that now he had a chance of trying
because of course we wanted the two pounds a week each, and besides, we
were rather tired of Dicky's always saying, when our ways didn't turn
out well
When we found out about our half-crown we got the paper. Noel was
playing admirals in it, but he had made the cocked hat without tearing
the paper, and we found the advertisement, and it said just the same as
ever. So we got a two-shilling postal order and a stamp, and what was
left of the money it was agreed we would spend in ginger-beer to drink
success to trade.

We got some nice paper out of Father's study, and Dicky wrote the
letter, and we put in the money and put on the stamp, and made H. O.
post it. Then we drank the ginger-beer, and then we waited for the
sample and instructions. It seemed a long time coming, and the postman
got quite tired of us running out and stopping him in the street to ask
if it had come.

But on the third morning it came. It was quite a large parcel, and
it was packed, as the advertisement said it would be
That means it was in a box; and inside the box was some
stiff browny cardboard, crinkled like the galvanized iron on the tops of
chicken-houses, and inside that was a lot of paper, some of it printed
and some scrappy, and in the very middle of it all a bottle, not
very large, and black, and sealed on the top of the cork with yellow
sealing-wax.

We looked at it as it lay on the nursery table, and while all the others
grabbed at the papers to see what the printing said, Oswald went to look
for the corkscrew, so as to see what was inside the bottle. He found
the corkscrew in the dresser drawer -- it always gets there, though it is
supposed to be in the sideboard drawer in the dining-room -- and when he
got back the others had read most of the printed papers
Dora said
said Alice
They all looked rather
down in the mouth, though, and Oswald asked how you were to make your
two pounds a week
said Dicky
Alice said
Oswald said he should jolly well think it would, and then Dicky took the
cork out with the corkscrew. The cork broke a good deal, and some of
the bits went into the bottle. Dora got the medicine glass that has
the teaspoons and tablespoons marked on it, and we agreed to have a
teaspoonful each, to see what it was like
Dora said
Dora behaved rather as if it were her bottle. I suppose it was, because
she had lent the money for it.

Then she measured out the teaspoonful, and she had first go, because of
being the eldest. We asked at once what it was like, but Dora could not
speak just then.

Then she said
Then it was Oswald's turn. He thought it was very burny; but he said
nothing. He wanted to see first what the others would say.

Dicky said his was simply beastly, and Alice said Noel could taste next
if he liked.

Noel said it was the golden wine of the gods, but he had to put his
handkerchief up to his mouth all the same, and I saw the face he made.

Then H. O. had his, and he spat it out in the fire, which was very rude
and nasty, and we told him so.

Then it was Alice's turn. She said
And she tasted it and said nothing.

Then Dicky said
And Alice got out 'Ego' before the rest of us. Then she said
And at once we all saw that that was all there was the matter with the
stuff. So we got two lumps of sugar and crushed it on the floor with one
of the big wooden bricks till it was powdery, and mixed it with some of
the wine up to the tablespoon mark, and it was quite different, and not
nearly so nasty
Dicky said. I think he
was sorry he had said
in such a hurry
Alice said
Dora said she was afraid it would be cheating to make one bottle nicer
than what people would get when they ordered a dozen bottles, but Alice
said Dora always made a fuss about everything, and really it would be
quite honest
she said
So then we crushed eight more lumps, very cleanly and carefully between
newspapers, and shook it up well in the bottle, and corked it up with a
screw of paper, brown and not news, for fear of the poisonous printing
ink getting wet and dripping down into the wine and killing people. We
made Pincher have a taste, and he sneezed for ever so long, and after
that he used to go under the sofa whenever we showed him the bottle.

Then we asked Alice who she would try and sell it to. She said
We did not wish to tell Eliza -- I don't know why. And she opened the door
very quickly that day, so that the Taxes and a man who came to our house
by mistake for next door got away before Alice had a chance to try them
with the Castilian Amoroso. But about five Eliza slipped out for half an
hour to see a friend who was making her a hat for Sunday, and while
she was gone there was a knock. Alice went, and we looked over the
banisters. When she opened the door, she said at once
The person at the door said
Alice said again
Then the person -- it sounded like a man -- said
But Alice only kept on saying
so at last
the man did, rubbing his boots very loudly on the mat.

Then Alice shut the front door, and we saw that it was the butcher, with
an envelope in his hand. He was not dressed in blue, like when he is
cutting up the sheep and things in the shop, and he wore knickerbockers.
Alice says he came on a bicycle. She led the way into the dining-room,
where the Castilian Amoroso bottle and the medicine glass were standing
on the table all ready.

The others stayed on the stairs, but Oswald crept down and looked
through the door-crack
said Alice quite calmly, though she told me
afterwards I had no idea how silly she felt. And the butcher sat down.
Then Alice stood quite still and said nothing, but she fiddled with
the medicine glass and put the screw of brown paper straight in the
Castilian bottle
the butcher said, when
he got tired of saying nothing
Alice said.

And then she stood still again and said nothing. It was beginning to
look very idiotic of her, and H. O. laughed. I went back and cuffed him
for it quite quietly, and I don't think the butcher heard.

But Alice did, and it roused her from her stupor. She spoke suddenly,
very fast indeed -- so fast that I knew she had made up what she was going
to say before. She had got most of it out of the circular.

She said
The butcher said
And Alice went on
said the butcher.

Alice poured some out.

The butcher tasted a very little. He licked his lips, and we thought
he was going to say how good it was. But he did not. He put down the
medicine glass with nearly all the stuff left in it (we put it back in
the bottle afterwards to save waste) and said
said Alice
The butcher asked why.

Alice did not speak for a minute, and then she said
said the butcher, looking at the hole in the
carpet
Alice went on
said the butcher, and he looked at the place where the paper
is coming off the wall
Alice went on
said the butcher. And Alice said again
would he buy some
he said. Alice asked him to have some
more to drink
he said
and he pulled out a handful of money and
gave her the shilling
Alice said.

But the butcher said not on half-dozens they didn't. Then he said he
didn't think he'd wait any longer for Father -- but would Alice ask Father
to write him?

Alice offered him the sherry again, but he said something about
and then she let him out and came back to us with the
shilling, and said
And we said
And all the evening we talked of our fortune that we had begun to make.

Nobody came next day, but the day after a lady came to ask for money to
build an orphanage for the children of dead sailors. And we saw her. I
went in with Alice. And when we had explained to her that we had only
a shilling and we wanted it for something else, Alice suddenly said
And the lady said
but she looked surprised.

She was not a young lady, and she had a mantle with beads, and the beads
had come off in places -- leaving a browny braid showing, and she had
printed papers about the dead sailors in a sealskin bag, and the
seal had come off in places, leaving the skin bare. We gave her a
tablespoonful of the wine in a proper wine-glass out of the sideboard,
because she was a lady. And when she had tasted it she got up in a very
great hurry, and shook out her dress and snapped her bag shut, and said
Then Alice said
and Alice was very near crying
said the lady, looking quite
bright and interested
And Alice said
and began to cry, and bolted out of the
room.

Then I said
The lady looked at me a minute, and then she looked quite different, and
she said
And she looked round the
room just like the butcher had done. Then she said again
So I said
and shook hands with her, and let her
out. Of course we couldn't have asked her to buy the wine after what
she'd said. But I think she was not a bad sort of person. I do like
a person to say they're sorry when they ought to be -- especially a
grown-up. They do it so seldom. I suppose that's why we think so much of
it.

But Alice and I didn't feel jolly for ever so long afterwards. And when
I went back into the dining-room I saw how different it was from when
Mother was here, and we are different, and Father is different, and
nothing is like it was. I am glad I am not made to think about it every
day.

I went and found Alice, and told her what the lady had said, and when
she had finished crying we put away the bottle and said we would not try
to sell any more to people who came. And we did not tell the others -- we
only said the lady did not buy any -- but we went up on the Heath, and
some soldiers went by and there was a Punch-and-judy show, and when we
came back we were better.

The bottle got quite dusty where we had put it, and perhaps the dust of
ages would have laid thick and heavy on it, only a clergyman called when
we were all out. He was not our own clergyman -- Mr Bristow is our own
clergyman, and we all love him, and we would not try to sell sherry
to people we like, and make two pounds a week out of them in our spare
time. It was another clergyman, just a stray one; and he asked Eliza if
the dear children would not like to come to his little Sunday school. We
always spend Sunday afternoons with Father. But as he had left the name
of his vicarage with Eliza, and asked her to tell us to come, we thought
we would go and call on him, just to explain about Sunday afternoons,
and we thought we might as well take the sherry with us
Alice said
Dora said she thought we had much better not go; but we said
and
it ended in her coming with us, and I am glad she did.

Oswald said he would do the talking if the others liked, and he learned
up what to say from the printed papers.

We went to the Vicarage early on Saturday afternoon, and rang at the
bell. It is a new red house with no trees in the garden, only very
yellow mould and gravel. It was all very neat and dry. Just before we
rang the bell we heard some one inside call
and we thought
we would not be Jane for anything. It was the sound of the voice that
called that made us sorry for her.

The door was opened by a very neat servant in black, with a white apron;
we saw her tying the strings as she came along the hall, through the
different-coloured glass in the door. Her face was red, and I think she
was Jane.

We asked if we could see Mr Mallow.

The servant said Mr Mallow was very busy with his sermon just then, but
she would see.

But Oswald said
So she let us all in and shut the front door, and showed us into a very
tidy room with a bookcase full of a lot of books covered in black cotton
with white labels, and some dull pictures, and a harmonium. And Mr
Mallow was writing at a desk with drawers, copying something out of a
book. He was stout and short, and wore spectacles.

He covered his writing up when we went in -- I didn't know why. He looked
rather cross, and we heard Jane or somebody being scolded outside by the
voice. I hope it wasn't for letting us in, but I have had doubts
said the clergyman
Dora said
he said
He took up his pen and fiddled with it, and he did not ask us to sit
down. But some of us did
said Dora
said Oswald; and he made
a sign to Alice to get the sherry ready in the glass. She did -- behind
Oswald's back while he was speaking
said Mr Mallow, looking at his watch
Then he muttered something about the fold, and went on
Then Oswald quickly took the glass from Alice, and held it out to him,
and said
he said
Oswald said
Alice had filled the glass half-full; I suppose she was too
excited to measure properly
said the clergyman, taking the glass in his hand
Oswald went On
Alice put her
oar in as usual.

The Vicar looked from Alice to Oswald, and back again, and Oswald went
on with what he had learned from the printing. The clergyman held the
glass at half-arm's-length, stiffly, as if he had caught cold
said H. O
said Oswald
said Mr Mallow, holding the glass further off
he went on, making his voice very thick and strong (I expect he
does it like that in church
said Alice firmly
The clergyman seemed to be speechless with conflicting emotions, and
just then the door opened and a lady came in. She had a white cap with
lace, and an ugly violet flower in it, and she was tall, and looked
very strong, though thin. And I do believe she had been listening at the
door
the Vicar was saying
said Dora, who never sees when
a game is up
The lady said (and it _was_ the voice
And Dora got up and said
And I think that was smart of Dora, even if it was rather rude.

Then I said perhaps we had better go, and the lady said
But when we were going to wrap up the bottle and glass the clergyman
said
and we were so upset we did, though it
wasn't his after all.

We walked home very fast and not saying much, and the girls went up to
their rooms. When I went to tell them tea was ready, and there was
a teacake, Dora was crying like anything and Alice hugging her. I am
afraid there is a great deal of crying in this chapter, but I can't help
it. Girls will sometimes; I suppose it is their nature, and we ought to
be sorry for their affliction
Dora was saying
So I said
Mother taught me to call her Sissy when we were very little and before
the others came, but I don't often somehow, now we are old. I patted her
on the back, and she put her head against my sleeve, holding on to Alice
all the time, and she went on. She was in that laughy-cryey state when
people say things they wouldn't say at other times
I hope you will not think I was a muff but I kissed Dora for some time.
Because girls like it. And I will never say again that she comes the
good elder sister too much. And I have put all this in though I do hate
telling about it, because I own I have been hard on Dora, but I never
will be again. She is a good old sort; of course we never knew before
about what Mother told her, or we wouldn't have ragged her as we did. We
did not tell the little ones, but I got Alice to speak to Dicky, and we
three can sit on the others if requisite.

This made us forget all about the sherry; but about eight o'clock there
was a knock, and Eliza went, and we saw it was poor Jane, if her name
was Jane, from the Vicarage. She handed in a brown-paper parcel and a
letter. And three minutes later Father called us into his study.

On the table was the brown-paper parcel, open, with our bottle and glass
on it, and Father had a letter in his hand. He Pointed to the bottle and
sighed, and said
The letter in his hand
was covered with little black writing, all over the four large pages.

So Dicky spoke up, and he told Father the whole thing, as far as he knew
it, for Alice and I had not told about the dead sailors' lady.

And when he had done, Alice said
Father said no, he didn't think clergymen could afford such expensive
wine; and he said _he_ would like to taste it. So we gave him what there
was left, for we had decided coming home that we would give up trying
for the two pounds a week in our spare time.

Father tasted it, and then he acted just as H. O. had done when he had
his teaspoonful, but of course we did not say anything. Then he laughed
till I thought he would never stop.

I think it was the sherry, because I am sure I have read somewhere about
He had only a very little,
which shows that it was a good after-dinner wine, stimulating, and yet
...I forget the rest.

But when he had done laughing he said
said Dicky
And Father laughed again. I am glad we got the Castilian
Amoroso, because it did really cheer Father up, and you cannot always do
that, however hard you try, even if you make jokes, or give him a comic
paper
The part about his nobleness only comes at the end, but you would
not understand it unless you knew how it began. It began, like nearly
everything about that time, with treasure-seeking.

Of course as soon as we had promised to consult my Father about business
matters we all gave up wanting to go into business. I don't know how it
is, but having to consult about a thing with grown-up people, even
the bravest and the best, seems to make the thing not worth doing
afterwards.

We don't mind Albert's uncle chipping in sometimes when the thing's
going on, but we are glad he never asked us to promise to consult him
about anything. Yet Oswald saw that my Father was quite right; and I
daresay if we had had that hundred pounds we should have spent it on the
share in that lucrative business for the sale of useful patent, and then
found out afterwards that we should have done better to spend the money
in some other way. My Father says so, and he ought to know. We had
several ideas about that time, but having so little chink always stood
in the way.

This was the case with H. O.'s idea of setting up a coconut-shy on this
side of the Heath, where there are none generally. We had no sticks
or wooden balls, and the greengrocer said he could not book so many as
twelve dozen coconuts without Mr Bastable's written order. And as we did
not wish to consult my Father it was decided to drop it. And when Alice
dressed up Pincher in some of the dolls' clothes and we made up our
minds to take him round with an organ as soon as we had taught him to
dance, we were stopped at once by Dicky's remembering how he had once
heard that an organ cost seven hundred pounds. Of course this was
the big church kind, but even the ones on three legs can't be got for
one-and-sevenpence, which was all we had when we first thought of it. So
we gave that up too.

It was a wet day, I remember, and mutton hash for dinner -- very tough
with pale gravy with lumps in it. I think the others would have left a
good deal on the sides of their plates, although they know better, only
Oswald said it was a savoury stew made of the red deer that Edward shot.
So then we were the Children of the New Forest, and the mutton tasted
much better. No one in the New Forest minds venison being tough and the
gravy pale.

Then after dinner we let the girls have a dolls' tea-party, on condition
they didn't expect us boys to wash up; and it was when we were drinking
the last of the liquorice water out of the little cups that Dicky said
So we said
Dicky answered us at once, though his mouth was full of bread with
liquorice stuck in it to look like cake. You should not speak with your
mouth full, even to your own relations, and you shouldn't wipe your
mouth on the back of your hand, but on your handkerchief, if you have
one. Dicky did not do this. He said
We said
said Alice softly
He was going on to say what it made him
think, but Noel interrupted and cried out
So we got out the flags and the wooden sword and the drum, and Oswald
beat it while the girls washed up, till Eliza came up to say she had the
jumping toothache, and the noise went through her like a knife. So of
course Oswald left off at once. When you are polite to Oswald he never
refuses to grant your requests.

When we were all dressed up we sat down round the camp fire, and Dicky
began again
Dicky stopped and smoked the pipe of peace. It is the pipe we did
bubbles with in the summer, and somehow it has not got broken yet.
We put tea-leaves in it for the pipe of peace, but the girls are not
allowed to have any. It is not right to let girls smoke. They get to
think too much of themselves if you let them do everything the same as
men. Oswald said
said Alice in a hurry
So Dicky went on
said Dora
Dicky explained
Then he went on to tell us that when we had invented our medicine we
would write and tell the editor about it, and he would put it in
the paper, and then people would send their two-and-ninepence and
three-and-six for the bottle nearly double the size, and then when the
medicine had cured them they would write to the paper and their letters
would be printed, saying how they had been suffering for years, and
never thought to get about again, but thanks to the blessing of our
ointment --'

Dora interrupted and said
And Alice
thought so too. And Dicky said he did not mean it, he was quite decided
to let it be in bottles. So now it was all settled, and we did not
see at the time that this would be a sort of going into business, but
afterwards when Albert's uncle showed us we saw it, and we were sorry.
We only had to invent the medicine. You might think that was easy,
because of the number of them you see every day in the paper, but it is
much harder than you think. First we had to decide what sort of illness
we should like to cure, and a 'heated discussion ensued', like in
Parliament.

Dora wanted it to be something to make the complexion of dazzling
fairness, but we remembered how her face came all red and rough when
she used the Rosabella soap that was advertised to make the darkest
complexion fair as the lily, and she agreed that perhaps it was better
not. Noel wanted to make the medicine first and then find out what
it would cure, but Dicky thought not, because there are so many more
medicines than there are things the matter with us, so it would be
easier to choose the disease first. Oswald would have liked wounds.
I still think it was a good idea, but Dicky said
So Oswald gave in because he knows what manners are, and it was Dicky's
idea. H. O. wanted a cure for the uncomfortable feeling that they give
you powders for, but we explained to him that grown-up people do not
have this feeling, however much they eat, and he agreed. Dicky said
he did not care a straw what the loathsome disease was, as long as we
hurried up and settled on something. Then Alice said
And at once we said
So that was settled.

Then we wrote a label to go on the bottle. When it was written it would
not go on the vinegar bottle that we had got, but we knew it would go
small when it was printed. It was like this:

                 BASTABLE'S
           CERTAIN CURE FOR COLDS
Coughs, Asthma, Shortness of Breath, and all infections of the Chest

     One dose gives immediate relief
   It will cure your cold in one bottle
     Especially the larger size at 3s. 6d.
       Order at once of the Makers
       To prevent disappointment

               Makers:

     D., O., R., A., N., and H. O. BASTABLE
             150, Lewisham Road, S.E.

    (A halfpenny for all bottles returned)

             ------------

Of course the next thing was for one of us to catch a cold and try what
cured it; we all wanted to be the one, but it was Dicky's idea, and he
said he was not going to be done out of it, so we let him. It was only
fair. He left off his undershirt that very day, and next morning he
stood in a draught in his nightgown for quite a long time. And we damped
his day-shirt with the nail-brush before he put it on. But all was vain.
They always tell you that these things will give you cold, but we found
it was not so.

So then we all went over to the Park, and Dicky went right into the
water with his boots on, and stood there as long as he could bear it,
for it was rather cold, and we stood and cheered him on. He walked home
in his wet clothes, which they say is a sure thing, but it was no go,
though his boots were quite spoiled. And three days after Noel began to
cough and sneeze.

So then Dicky said it was not fair
Noel said
And Alice said she had known all along Noel oughtn't to have stood about
on the bank cheering in the cold.

Noel had to go to bed, and then we began to make the medicines; we were
sorry he was out of it, but he had the fun of taking the things.

We made a great many medicines. Alice made herb tea. She got sage and
thyme and savory and marjoram and boiled them all up together with salt
and water, but she _would_ put parsley in too. Oswald is sure parsley is
not a herb. It is only put on the cold meat and you are not supposed to
eat it. It kills parrots to eat parsley, I believe. I expect it was the
parsley that disagreed so with Noel. The medicine did not seem to do the
cough any good.

Oswald got a pennyworth of alum, because it is so cheap, and some
turpentine which every one knows is good for colds, and a little sugar
and an aniseed ball. These were mixed in a bottle with water, but Eliza
threw it away and said it was nasty rubbish, and I hadn't any money to
get more things with.

Dora made him some gruel, and he said it did his chest good; but of
course that was no use, because you cannot put gruel in bottles and say
it is medicine. It would not be honest, and besides nobody would believe
you.

Dick mixed up lemon-juice and sugar and a little of the juice of the red
flannel that Noel's throat was done up in. It comes out beautifully
in hot water. Noel took this and he liked it. Noel's own idea was
liquorice-water, and we let him have it, but it is too plain and black
to sell in bottles at the proper price.

Noel liked H. O.'s medicine the best, which was silly of him, because it
was only peppermints melted in hot water, and a little cobalt to make
it look blue. It was all right, because H. O.'s paint-box is the French
kind, with Couleurs non Veneneuses on it. This means you may suck your
brushes if you want to, or even your paints if you are a very little
boy.

It was rather jolly while Noel had that cold. He had a fire in his
bedroom which opens out of Dicky's and Oswald's, and the girls used to
read aloud to Noel all day; they will not read aloud to you when you are
well. Father was away at Liverpool on business, and Albert's uncle was
at Hastings. We were rather glad of this, because we wished to give
all the medicines a fair trial, and grown-ups are but too fond of
interfering. As if we should have given him anything poisonous!

His cold went on -- it was bad in his head, but it was not one of the kind
when he has to have poultices and can't sit up in bed. But when it had
been in his head nearly a week, Oswald happened to tumble over Alice on
the stairs. When we got up she was crying
said Oswald
I was very
sorry if I had hurt her, but you ought not to sit on the stairs in the
dark and let other people tumble over you. You ought to remember how
beastly it is for them if they do hurt you
Alice said
So Oswald thumped her on the back and told her to shut up
she said
Then she began to cry again. Oswald thumped her again, because he knows
how a good brother ought to behave, and said
If we had been
in a book Oswald would have embraced his little sister tenderly, and
mingled his tears with hers.

Then Oswald said
And she cried more and said
I said. But she said 'No'; and there
was a good reason why not. So I said I wouldn't promise if it came to
that. Of course I meant to all right. But it did seem mean of her not to
tell me.

So Alice went out by the side door while Eliza was setting tea, and she
was a long time gone; she was not in to tea. When Eliza asked Oswald
where she was he said he did not know, but perhaps she was tidying
her corner drawer. Girls often do this, and it takes a long time. Noel
coughed a good bit after tea, and asked for Alice.

Oswald told him she was doing something and it was a secret. Oswald did
not tell any lies even to save his sister. When Alice came back she was
very quiet, but she whispered to Oswald that it was all right. When
it was rather late Eliza said she was going out to post a letter. This
always takes her an hour, because she _will_ go to the post-office
across the Heath instead of the pillar-box, because once a boy dropped
fusees in our pillar-box and burnt the letters. It was not any of us;
Eliza told us about it. And when there was a knock at the door a long
time after we thought it was Eliza come back, and that she had forgotten
the back-door key. We made H. O. go down to open the door, because it
is his place to run about: his legs are younger than ours. And we heard
boots on the stairs besides H. O.'s, and we listened spellbound till the
door opened, and it was Albert's uncle. He looked very tired
Oswald said
Alice stopped me, and her face was very red, her nose was shiny too,
with having cried so much before tea.

She said
She got hold of Albert's uncle and held on to him
said Albert's uncle, and he sat
down on the edge of the bed. It is a rather shaky bed, the bar that
keeps it steady underneath got broken when we were playing burglars last
winter. It was our crowbar. He began to feel Noel's pulse, and went on
talking
He pulled out a jolly lot of chocolate and some butterscotch, and grapes
for Noel. When we had all said thank you, he went on
So we bunked, and Dora and Albert's uncle made Noel comfortable for the
night.

Then they came to the nursery which we had gone down to, and he sat down
in the Guy Fawkes chair and said
Alice said
said Albert's uncle, pulling her close to
him to sit on his knee
So then Oswald understood what Alice's secret was. She had gone out and
sent a telegram to Albert's uncle at Hastings. But Oswald thought she
might have told him. Afterwards she told me what she had put in the
telegram. It was
With the address it came to tenpence-halfpenny.

Then Albert's uncle began to ask questions, and it all came out,
how Dicky had tried to catch the cold, but the cold had gone to Noel
instead, and about the medicines and all. Albert's uncle looked very
serious
he said
Alice asked that, and she was
crying again
said Albert's uncle
And then he gave
us a long talking-to. He can make you feel most awfully small. At last
he stopped, and we said we were very sorry, and he said
So we said
and knew but too well that now he wasn't going to.
Then he went on
Of course he knew we should say
and we did; but Dicky told
me afterwards he thought it was hard on H. O.

Albert's uncle stayed till Eliza came in, and then he said good night in
a way that showed us that all was forgiven and forgotten.

And we went to bed. It must have been the middle of the night when
Oswald woke up suddenly, and there was Alice with her teeth chattering,
shaking him to wake him
she said
Oswald told her to go to bed and not gas. But she said
So Oswald saw it was no good and he sat
up in bed and said
So Alice stood shivering and said
Oswald thought a minute, and then he said
So she kissed Oswald, and he let her, and she went back to bed.

The next day Albert's uncle took Noel away, before Oswald had time to
persuade Alice that we ought to tell him about the sixpence. Alice was
very unhappy, but not so much as in the night: you can be very miserable
in the night if you have done anything wrong and you happen to be awake.
I know this for a fact.

None of us had any money except Eliza, and she wouldn't give us any
unless we said what for; and of course we could not do that because of
the honour of the family. And Oswald was anxious to get the sixpence to
give to the telegraph people because he feared that the badness of that
sixpence might have been found out, and that the police might come for
Alice at any moment. I don't think I ever had such an unhappy day. Of
course we could have written to Albert's uncle, but it would have taken
a long time, and every moment of delay added to Alice's danger. We
thought and thought, but we couldn't think of any way to get that
sixpence. It seems a small sum, but you see Alice's liberty depended
on it. It was quite late in the afternoon when I met Mrs Leslie on the
Parade. She had a brown fur coat and a lot of yellow flowers in her
hands. She stopped to speak to me, and asked me how the Poet was. I told
her he had a cold, and I wondered whether she would lend me sixpence if
I asked her, but I could not make up my mind how to begin to say it. It
is a hard thing to say -- much harder than you would think. She talked to
me for a bit, and then she suddenly got into a cab, and said
and told the man where to go. And just as
she started she shoved the yellow flowers through the window and said
and was driven off.

Gentle reader, I will not conceal from you what Oswald did. He knew all
about not disgracing the family, and he did not like doing what I am
going to say: and they were really Noel's flowers, only he could not
have sent them to Hastings, and Oswald knew he would say 'Yes' if Oswald
asked him. Oswald sacrificed his family pride because of his little
sister's danger. I do not say he was a noble boy -- I just tell you what
he did, and you can decide for yourself about the nobleness.

He put on his oldest clothes -- they're much older than any you would
think he had if you saw him when he was tidy -- and he took those yellow
chrysanthemums and he walked with them to Greenwich Station and waited
for the trains bringing people from London. He sold those flowers in
penny bunches and got tenpence. Then he went to the telegraph office at
Lewisham, and said to the lady there
The lady said she had not noticed it, and never mind, but Oswald knew
that
and he refused to take back the
pennies. So at last she said she should put them in the plate on Sunday.
She is a very nice lady. I like the way she does her hair.

Then Oswald went home to Alice and told her, and she hugged him, and
said he was a dear, good, kind boy, and he said
We bought peppermint bullseyes with the fourpence I had over, and the
others wanted to know where we got the money, but we would not tell.

Only afterwards when Noel came home we told him, because they were his
flowers, and he said it was quite right. He made some poetry about it. I
only remember one bit of it.

    The noble youth of high degree
    Consents to play a menial part,
    All for his sister Alice's sake,
    Who was so dear to his faithful heart.

But Oswald himself has never bragged about it. We got no treasure out of
this, unless you count the peppermint bullseyes
A day or two after Noel came back from Hastings there was snow; it was
jolly. And we cleared it off the path. A man to do it is sixpence at
least, and you should always save when you can. A penny saved is a penny
earned. And then we thought it would be nice to clear it off the top of
the portico, where it lies so thick, and the edges as if they had been
cut with a knife. And just as we had got out of the landing-window on
to the portico, the Water Rates came up the path with his book that he
tears the thing out of that says how much you have got to pay, and the
little ink-bottle hung on to his buttonhole in case you should pay him.
Father says the Water Rates is a sensible man, and knows it is always
well to be prepared for whatever happens, however unlikely. Alice said
afterwards that she rather liked the Water Rates, really, and Noel said
he had a face like a good vizier, or the man who rewards the honest boy
for restoring the purse, but we did not think about these things at
the time, and as the Water Rates came up the steps, we shovelled down
a great square slab of snow like an avalanche -- and it fell right on
his head. Two of us thought of it at the same moment, so it was quite a
large avalanche. And when the Water Rates had shaken himself he rang the
bell. It was Saturday, and Father was at home. We know now that it is
very wrong and ungentlemanly to shovel snow off porticoes on to the
Water Rates, or any other person, and we hope he did not catch a cold,
and we are very sorry. We apologized to the Water Rates when Father told
us to. We were all sent to bed for it.

We all deserved the punishment, because the others would have shovelled
down snow just as we did if they'd thought of it -- only they are not
so quick at thinking of things as we are. And even quite wrong things
sometimes lead to adventures; as every one knows who has ever read about
pirates or highwaymen.

Eliza hates us to be sent to bed early, because it means her having to
bring meals up, and it means lighting the fire in Noel's room ever so
much earlier than usual. He had to have a fire because he still had a
bit of a cold. But this particular day we got Eliza into a good temper
by giving her a horrid brooch with pretending amethysts in it, that an
aunt once gave to Alice, so Eliza brought up an extra scuttle of coals,
and when the greengrocer came with the potatoes (he is always late on
Saturdays) she got some chestnuts from him. So that when we heard Father
go out after his dinner, there was a jolly fire in Noel's room, and
we were able to go in and be Red Indians in blankets most comfortably.
Eliza had gone out; she says she gets things cheaper on Saturday
nights. She has a great friend, who sells fish at a shop, and he is
very generous, and lets her have herrings for less than half the natural
price.

So we were all alone in the house; Pincher was out with Eliza, and we
talked about robbers. And Dora thought it would be a dreadful trade, but
Dicky said
Dora said
said Alice
said Noel
said Dora
said Noel
And we felt it was a score for Noel
said Alice.

H. O. said he would kill him with boiling oil; but Alice explained that
she meant a real robber -- now -- this minute -- in the house.

Oswald and Dicky did not say; but Noel said he thought it would only be
fair to ask the robber quite politely and quietly to go away, and then
if he didn't you could deal with him.

Now what I am going to tell you is a very strange and wonderful thing,
and I hope you will be able to believe it. I should not, if a boy told
me, unless I knew him to be a man of honour, and perhaps not then unless
he gave his sacred word. But it is true, all the same, and it only shows
that the days of romance and daring deeds are not yet at an end.

Alice was just asking Noel _how_ he would deal with the robber who
wouldn't go if he was asked politely and quietly, when we heard a noise
downstairs -- quite a plain noise, not the kind of noise you fancy you
hear. It was like somebody moving a chair. We held our breath and
listened and then came another noise, like some one poking a fire.
Now, you remember there was no one _to_ poke a fire or move a chair
downstairs, because Eliza and Father were both out. They could not have
come in without our hearing them, because the front door is as hard to
shut as the back one, and whichever you go in by you have to give a slam
that you can hear all down the street.

H. O. and Alice and Dora caught hold of each other's blankets and looked
at Dicky and Oswald, and every one was quite pale. And Noel whispered
And she kept on saying it till we had to tell her to shut up.

O reader, have you ever been playing Red Indians in blankets round a
bedroom fire in a house where you thought there was no one but you -- and
then suddenly heard a noise like a chair, and a fire being poked,
downstairs? Unless you have you will not be able to imagine at all what
it feels like. It was not like in books; our hair did not stand on end
at all, and we never said
once, but our feet got very cold,
though we were in blankets by the fire, and the insides of Oswald's
hands got warm and wet, and his nose was cold like a dog's, and his ears
were burning hot.

The girls said afterwards that they shivered with terror, and their
teeth chattered, but we did not see or hear this at the time
said Dora; and then Oswald
suddenly thought of something, and he breathed more freely and he said
The girls wouldn't, of course; but I could see that they breathed more
freely too. But Dicky said
H. O. said
So we said he had better
stay with the girls. And of course after that we had to let him and
Alice both come. Dora said if we took Noel down with his cold, she would
scream
and
and she didn't mind if the whole street
heard.

So Noel agreed to be getting his clothes on, and the rest of us said we
would go down and look for the cat.

Now Oswald _said_ that about the cat, and it made it easier to go down,
but in his inside he did not feel at all sure that it might not be
robbers after all. Of course, we had often talked about robbers before,
but it is very different when you sit in a room and listen and listen
and listen; and Oswald felt somehow that it would be easier to go down
and see what it was, than to wait, and listen, and wait, and wait, and
listen, and wait, and then perhaps to hear _it_, whatever it was, come
creeping slowly up the stairs as softly as _it_ could with _its_ boots
off, and the stairs creaking, towards the room where we were with the
door open in case of Eliza coming back suddenly, and all dark on the
landings. And then it would have been just as bad, and it would have
lasted longer, and you would have known you were a coward besides. Dicky
says he felt all these same things. Many people would say we were young
heroes to go down as we did; so I have tried to explain, because no
young hero wishes to have more credit than he deserves.

The landing gas was turned down low -- just a blue bead -- and we four went
out very softly, wrapped in our blankets, and we stood on the top of the
stairs a good long time before we began to go down. And we listened and
listened till our ears buzzed.

And Oswald whispered to Dicky, and Dicky went into our room and fetched
the large toy pistol that is a foot long, and that has the trigger
broken, and I took it because I am the eldest; and I don't think either
of us thought it was the cat now. But Alice and H. O. did. Dicky got the
poker out of Noel's room, and told Dora it was to settle the cat with
when we caught her.

Then Oswald whispered
But they said they would be a reinforcement.

Oswald's teeth chattered a little when he spoke. It was not with
anything else except cold.

So Dicky and Oswald crept down, and when we got to the bottom of the
stairs, we saw Father's study door just ajar, and the crack of light.
And Oswald was so pleased to see the light, knowing that burglars prefer
the dark, or at any rate the dark lantern, that he felt really sure it
_was_ the cat after all, and then he thought it would be fun to make
the others upstairs think it was really a robber. So he cocked the
pistol -- you can cock it, but it doesn't go off -- and he said
and he rushed at the study door and burst into the room, crying
And, as he finished saying it, he saw before him, standing on the study
hearthrug, a Real Robber. There was no mistake about it. Oswald was
sure it was a robber, because it had a screwdriver in its hands, and was
standing near the cupboard door that H. O. broke the lock off; and there
were gimlets and screws and things on the floor. There is nothing in
that cupboard but old ledgers and magazines and the tool chest, but of
course, a robber could not know that beforehand.

When Oswald saw that there really was a robber, and that he was so
heavily armed with the screwdriver, he did not feel comfortable. But he
kept the pistol pointed at the robber, and -- you will hardly believe it,
but it is true -- the robber threw down the screwdriver clattering on the
other tools, and he _did_ throw up his hands, and said
So Dicky said
And the robber said
And Oswald said, still pointing the pistol, and feeling very strong and
brave and as if he was in a book
The robber did: and while he turned them out, we looked at him. He was
of the middle height, and clad in a black frock-coat and grey trousers.
His boots were a little gone at the sides, and his shirt-cuffs were
a bit frayed, but otherwise he was of gentlemanly demeanour. He had a
thin, wrinkled face, with big, light eyes that sparkled, and then looked
soft very queerly, and a short beard. In his youth it must have been of
a fair golden colour, but now it was tinged with grey. Oswald was sorry
for him, especially when he saw that one of his pockets had a large hole
in it, and that he had nothing in his pockets but letters and string and
three boxes of matches, and a pipe and a handkerchief and a thin tobacco
pouch and two pennies. We made him put all the things on the table, and
then he said
Alice and H. O. had come down to be reinforcements, when they heard a
shout, and when Alice saw that it was a Real Robber, and that he had
surrendered, she clapped her hands and said
and so did
H. O. And now she said
The robber agreed to this, and gave his word of honour, and asked if he
might put on a pipe, and we said
and he sat in Father's armchair
and warmed his boots, which steamed, and I sent H. O. and Alice to
put on some clothes and tell the others, and bring down Dicky's and my
knickerbockers, and the rest of the chestnuts.

And they all came, and we sat round the fire, and it was jolly. The
robber was very friendly, and talked to us a great deal
he said, when Noel said
something about the things he had turned out of his pockets
Oswald is sorry if it was mean, but he could not own up just then that
he did not think there was any one in the study when he did that brave
if rash act. He has told since
the robber
asked, when he had thrown his head back, and laughed for quite half a
minute. So we told him. And he applauded our valour, and Alice and H.
O. explained that they would have said
too, only they were
reinforcements. The robber ate some of the chestnuts -- and we sat and
wondered when Father would come home, and what he would say to us for
our intrepid conduct. And the robber told us of all the things he had
done before he began to break into houses. Dicky picked up the tools
from the floor, and suddenly he said
said the robber
said H. O.

But the robber thought cycles were low -- and besides you couldn't go
across country with them when occasion arose, as you could with a trusty
steed. And he talked of highwaymen as if he knew just how we liked
hearing it.

Then he told us how he had been a pirate captain -- and how he had sailed
over waves mountains high, and gained rich prizes -- and how he _did_
begin to think that here he had found a profession to his mind
he said
I did feel so sorry for him. He used such nice words, and he had a
gentleman's voice
said Dora. She had
dressed even to her collar -- and made Noel do it too -- but the rest of us
were in blankets with just a few odd things put on anyhow underneath.

The robber frowned and sighed
he said
He sighed again, and looked hard
at the fire
H. O. was beginning, but Dicky
said
he said, as if he had not been thinking of such things
said Oswald
said the robber
I saw by his understanding about Nelson that he was really a man who had
been to a good school as well as to Balliol.

Then we asked him
And Alice asked if he was ever a coiner, and we told him how we had
thought we'd caught the desperate gang next door, and he was very much
interested and said he was glad he had never taken to coining
he said
And again he looked at the fire.

Oswald forgot for a minute that the interesting stranger was a robber,
and asked him if he wouldn't have a drink. Oswald has heard Father do
this to his friends, so he knows it is the right thing. The robber said
he didn't mind if he did. And that is right, too.

And Dora went and got a bottle of Father's ale -- the Light Sparkling
Family -- and a glass, and we gave it to the robber. Dora said she would
be responsible.

Then when he had had a drink he told us about bandits, but he said it
was so bad in wet weather. Bandits' caves were hardly ever properly
weathertight. And bush-ranging was the same
he said
And then he filled his pipe again.

We had turned out the gas, so that Father should have a jolly good
surprise when he did come home, and we sat and talked as pleasant as
could be. I never liked a new man better than I liked that robber. And I
felt so sorry for him. He told us he had been a war-correspondent and
an editor, in happier days, as well as a horse-stealer and a colonel of
dragoons.

And quite suddenly, just as we were telling him about Lord Tottenham and
our being highwaymen ourselves, he put up his hand and said
and
we were quiet and listened.

There was a scrape, scrape, scraping noise; it came from downstairs
whispered the robber
I said
Then we heard a snap
said the robber
softly
But Dicky and I said we should come. So he let us go as far as the
bottom of the kitchen stairs, and we took the tongs and shovel with us.
There was a light in the kitchen; a very little light. It is curious we
never thought, any of us, that this might be a plant of our robber's to
get away. We never thought of doubting his word of honour. And we were
right.

That noble robber dashed the kitchen door open, and rushed in with the
big toy pistol in one hand and the poker in the other, shouting out just
like Oswald had done
And Dicky and I rattled the tongs and shovel so that he might
know there were more of us, all bristling with weapons.

And we heard a husky voice in the kitchen saying
Then we went in. Our robber was standing in the grandest manner with his
legs very wide apart, and the pistol pointing at the cowering burglar.
The burglar was a large man who did not mean to have a beard, I think,
but he had got some of one, and a red comforter, and a fur cap, and his
face was red and his voice was thick. How different from our own robber!
The burglar had a dark lantern, and he was standing by the plate-basket.
When we had lit the gas we all thought he was very like what a burglar
ought to be.

He did not look as if he could ever have been a pirate or a highwayman,
or anything really dashing or noble, and he scowled and shuffled his
feet and said
said our robber, rubbing his chin
It is not every robber that I would stand Christian names from, I can
tell you but just then I didn't think of that. I just said
Our robber looked at the burglar and said nothing.

Then the burglar began to speak very fast, and to look different ways
with his hard, shiny little eyes.

'Lookee
he said
he shook the plate-basket
as if he was angry with it, and the yellowy spoons and forks rattled. 'I
was just a-looking through this 'ere Bank-ollerday show, when you come.
Let me off, sir. Come now, I've got kids of my own at home, strike me
if I ain't -- same as yours -- I've got a nipper just about 'is size, and
what'll come of them if I'm lagged? I ain't been in it long, sir, and I
ain't
said our robber
Alice and the others
had come down by now to see what was happening. Alice told me afterwards
they thought it really was the cat this time.

'No, I ain't 'andy, as you say, sir, and if you let me off this once
I'll chuck the whole blooming bizz; rake my civvy, I will. Don't be hard
on a cove, mister; think of the missis and the kids. I've got one just
the cut of little missy there bless 'er pretty
said our
robber. Then Alice said
said our
robber
said the burglar
e won't
'ave the
said Alice
the burglar said very earnestly, and he looked at the
plate-basket again, as if that alone would be enough to keep him away,
our robber said afterwards
said Alice
Then Alice said
But our robber said no, it wouldn't be right; we must wait till Father
came home. Then H. O. said, very suddenly and plainly
The minute he'd said it the burglar said
and then
our robber made a step towards him to catch hold of him, and before you
had time to think
the burglar knocked the pistol up with one
hand and knocked our robber down with the other, and was off out of
the window like a shot, though Oswald and Dicky did try to stop him by
holding on to his legs.

And that burglar had the cheek to put his head in at the window and say,
'I'll give yer love to the kids and the missis'-- and he was off like
winking, and there were Alice and Dora trying to pick up our robber, and
asking him whether he was hurt, and where. He wasn't hurt at all, except
a lump at the back of his head. And he got up, and we dusted the kitchen
floor off him. Eliza is a dirty girl.

Then he said
So we put up
the shutters, which Eliza has strict orders to do before she goes out,
only she never does, and we went back to Father's study, and the robber
said
and put his boots back in the fender
to go on steaming, and then we all talked at once. It was the most
wonderful adventure we ever had, though it wasn't treasure-seeking -- at
least not ours. I suppose it was the burglar's treasure-seeking, but
he didn't get much -- and our robber said he didn't believe a word about
those kids that were so like Alice and me.

And then there was the click of the gate, and we said
and the robber said
Then we all jumped up. We did like him so much, and it seemed so unfair
that he should be sent to prison, and the horrid, lumping big burglar
not.

And Alice said
And we all said
and pulled him towards the door, and gave
him his hat and stick and the things out of his pockets.

But Father's latchkey was in the door, and it was too late.

Father came in quickly, purring with the cold, and began to say
And then he stopped short and stared
at us. Then he said, in the voice we all hate
And for a minute nobody spoke.

Then my Father said
And then our robber rubbed his hands and laughed, and cried
out
Then we began to understand, and it was like being knocked down, it was
so sudden. And our robber told us he wasn't a robber after all. He was
only an old college friend of my Father's, and he had come after dinner,
when Father was just trying to mend the lock H. O. had broken, to ask
Father to get him a letter to a doctor about his little boy Denny, who
was ill. And Father had gone over the Heath to Vanbrugh Park to see some
rich people he knows and get the letter. And he had left Mr Foulkes to
wait till he came back, because it was important to know at once whether
Father could get the letter, and if he couldn't Mr Foulkes would have
had to try some one else directly.

We were dumb with amazement.

Our robber told my Father about the other burglar, and said he was
sorry he'd let him escape, but my Father said
Then our robber told my Father how I had rushed into the room with a
pistol, crying out... but you know all about that. And he laid it on
so thick and fat about plucky young-uns, and chips of old blocks, and
things like that, that I felt I was purple with shame, even under the
blanket. So I swallowed that thing that tries to prevent you speaking
when you ought to, and I said
Then our robber said
And I said
And I was glad I'd owned up, for Father slapped me on the back, and
said I was a young brick, and our robber said I was no funk anyway, and
though I got very hot under the blanket I liked it, and I explained that
the others would have done the same if they had thought of it.

Then Father got up some more beer, and laughed about Dora's
responsibility, and he got out a box of figs he had bought for us, only
he hadn't given it to us because of the Water Rates, and Eliza came in
and brought up the bread and cheese, and what there was left of the
neck of mutton -- cold wreck of mutton, Father called it -- and we had a
feast -- like a picnic -- all sitting anywhere, and eating with our fingers.
It was prime. We sat up till past twelve o'clock, and I never felt so
pleased to think I was not born a girl. It was hard on the others; they
would have done just the same if they'd thought of it. But it does make
you feel jolly when your pater says you're a young brick!

When Mr Foulkes was going, he said to Alice
And Alice understood, of course, and kissed him as hard as she could.

And she said
And he said
And
Dora kissed him too, and said
And our robber just said
And he jolly well did play it, and no mistake. We have often seen him
since, and his boy Denny, and his girl Daisy, but that comes in another
story.

And if any of you kids who read this ever had two such adventures in one
night you can just write and tell me. That's all
You have no idea how uncomfortable the house was on the day when we
sought for gold with the divining-rod. It was like a spring-cleaning in
the winter-time. All the carpets were up, because Father had told Eliza
to make the place decent as there was a gentleman coming to dinner the
next day. So she got in a charwoman, and they slopped water about, and
left brooms and brushes on the stairs for people to tumble over. H. O.
got a big bump on his head in that way, and when he said it was too bad,
Eliza said he should keep in the nursery then, and not be where he'd no
business. We bandaged his head with a towel, and then he stopped crying
and played at being England's wounded hero dying in the cockpit, while
every man was doing his duty, as the hero had told them to, and Alice
was Hardy, and I was the doctor, and the others were the crew. Playing
at Hardy made us think of our own dear robber, and we wished he was
there, and wondered if we should ever see him any more.

We were rather astonished at Father's having anyone to dinner, because
now he never seems to think of anything but business. Before Mother died
people often came to dinner, and Father's business did not take up so
much of his time and was not the bother it is now. And we used to see
who could go furthest down in our nightgowns and get nice things to
eat, without being seen, out of the dishes as they came out of the
dining-room. Eliza can't cook very nice things. She told Father she was
a good plain cook, but he says it was a fancy portrait. We stayed in the
nursery till the charwoman came in and told us to be off -- she was going
to make one job of it, and have our carpet up as well as all the
others, now the man was here to beat them. It came up, and it was very
dusty -- and under it we found my threepenny-bit that I lost ages ago,
which shows what Eliza is. H. O. had got tired of being the wounded
hero, and Dicky was so tired of doing nothing that Dora said she knew
he'd begin to tease Noel in a minute; then of course Dicky said he
wasn't going to tease anybody -- he was going out to the Heath. He said
he'd heard that nagging women drove a man from his home, and now he
found it was quite true. Oswald always tries to be a peacemaker, so he
told Dicky to shut up and not make an ass of himself. And Alice said
And Dora tossed her chin up and said it wasn't any
business of Oswald's any way, and no one asked Alice's opinion. So we
all felt very uncomfortable till Noel said
We all laughed then and stopped jawing at each other. Noel is very funny
with his poetry. But that piece happened to come out quite true. You
begin to quarrel and then you can't stop; often, long before the others
are ready to cry and make it up, I see how silly it is, and I want to
laugh; but it doesn't do to say so -- for it only makes the others crosser
than they were before. I wonder why that is?

Alice said Noel ought to be poet laureate, and she actually went out
in the cold and got some laurel leaves -- the spotted kind -- out of
the garden, and Dora made a crown and we put it on him. He was quite
pleased; but the leaves made a mess, and Eliza said
I believe
that's a word grown-ups use more than any other. Then suddenly Alice
thought of that old idea of hers for finding treasure, and she said
So Oswald said
said Alice
said Noel
said Dicky
said Noel
We asked him what a carcanet was, but he wouldn't
say
said Oswald
said H. O
said Dicky
said Dora
She would have gone on for ever so long only we reminded her that we
hadn't found the gold yet.

By this Alice had put on the nursery tablecloth, which is green, and
tied the old blue and yellow antimacassar over her head, and she said
And she went down into the hall. We all followed chanting
It
is a gloomy thing the girls learnt at the High School, and we always use
it when we want a priestly chant.

Alice stopped short by the hat-stand, and held up her hands as well as
she could for the tablecloth, and said
The umbrella-stand was the altar of the golden idol, and it yielded her
the old school umbrella. She carried it between her palms
she said
So she went upstairs and down and into every room. We followed her
on tiptoe, and Alice sang as she went. What she sang is not out of a
book -- Noel made it up while she was dressing up for the priestess.

    Ashen rod cold
    That here I hold,
    Teach me where to find the gold.

When we came to where Eliza was, she said
but
Dora said it was only a game, and we wouldn't touch anything, and our
boots were quite clean, and Eliza might as well let us. So she did.

It was all right for the priestess, but it was a little dull for the
rest of us, because she wouldn't let us sing, too; so we said we'd had
enough of it, and if she couldn't find the gold we'd leave off and play
something else. The priestess said
and went
on singing. Then we all followed her back into the nursery, where the
carpet was up and the boards smelt of soft soap. Then she said
So we sang
said Alice
We didn't quite see how to dig, but we all began to
scratch on the floor with our hands, but the priestess said
So we dug -- that is, we got the loose board up. And Alice threw up her
arms and cried
said H. O
said Dicky yawning
But Alice was kneeling by the hole
she said
We thought she was kidding, but when she began to try to get into the
hole, which was much too small, we saw she meant it, so I said
and I looked, but I couldn't see anything, even when I
lay down on my stomach. The others lay down on their stomachs too and
tried to see, all but Noel, who stood and looked at us and said we were
the great serpents come down to drink at the magic pool. He wanted to be
the knight and slay the great serpents with his good sword -- he even drew
the umbrella ready -- but Alice said
asked Noel, beginning to go for the matches very
slowly
Noel said
and we did
not put our heads quite so close to the hole till he came back with the
matches.

Then I struck a match, and Alice cried
And there it was,
and it was a half-sovereign, partly dusty and partly bright. We think
perhaps a mouse, disturbed by the carpets being taken up, may have
brushed the dust of years from part of the half-sovereign with his tail.
We can't imagine how it came there, only Dora thinks she remembers once
when H. O. was very little Mother gave him some money to hold, and he
dropped it, and it rolled all over the floor. So we think perhaps this
was part of it. We were very glad. H. O. wanted to go out at once and
buy a mask he had seen for fourpence. It had been a shilling mask, but
now it was going very cheap because Guy Fawkes' Day was over, and it was
a little cracked at the top. But Dora said
But H. O. did not care about waiting, and I felt for him. Dora is rather
like grown-ups in that way; she does not seem to understand that when
you want a thing you do want it, and that you don't wish to wait, even a
minute.

So we went and asked Albert-next-door's uncle. He was pegging away at
one of the rotten novels he has to write to make his living, but he said
we weren't interrupting him at all
he said
That's one thing I like Albert's uncle for. He always talks like a book,
and yet you can always understand what he means. I think he is more like
us, inside of his mind, than most grown-up people are. He can pretend
beautifully. I never met anyone else so good at it, except our robber,
and we began it, with him. But it was Albert's uncle who first taught
us how to make people talk like books when you're playing things, and he
made us learn to tell a story straight from the beginning, not starting
in the middle like most people do. So now Oswald remembered what he had
been told, as he generally does, and began at the beginning, but when he
came to where Alice said she was the priestess, Albert's uncle said
So Alice said
said Albert's uncle
Albert's uncle took it and looked at it
he said, and
he did
he went on
Of course we know from Kipling that that means
so we came away. I do like Albert's uncle.

I shall be like that when I'm a man. He gave us our Jungle books, and he
is awfully clever, though he does have to write grown-up tales.

We told Father about it that night. He was very kind. He said we
might certainly have the half-sovereign, and he hoped we should enjoy
ourselves with our treasure-trove.

Then he said
s
boots.'

We said we would be very quiet, and Father went on
But H. O. said
And Alice said Noel never made a row anyhow. So Father laughed and
said
And he said we might do as we liked with the
half-sovereign
he said
We talked it over all that evening, and we decided that as we were not
to go into business with our half-sovereign it was no use not spending
it at once, and so we might as well have a right royal feast. The next
day we went out and bought the things. We got figs, and almonds and
raisins, and a real raw rabbit, and Eliza promised to cook it for us
if we would wait till tomorrow, because of the Indian Uncle coming to
dinner. She was very busy cooking nice things for him to eat. We got the
rabbit because we are so tired of beef and mutton, and Father hasn't
a bill at the poultry shop. And we got some flowers to go on the
dinner-table for Father's party. And we got hardbake and raspberry noyau
and peppermint rock and oranges and a coconut, with other nice things.
We put it all in the top long drawer. It is H. O.'s play drawer, and we
made him turn his things out and put them in Father's old portmanteau.
H. O. is getting old enough now to learn to be unselfish, and besides,
his drawer wanted tidying very badly. Then we all vowed by the honour of
the ancient House of Bastable that we would not touch any of the
feast till Dora gave the word next day. And we gave H. O. some of the
hardbake, to make it easier for him to keep his vow. The next day was
the most rememorable day in all our lives, but we didn't know that then.
But that is another story. I think that is such a useful way to know
when you can't think how to end up a chapter. I learnt it from another
writer named Kipling. I've mentioned him before, I believe, but he
deserves it
It was all very well for Father to ask us not to make a row because the
Indian Uncle was coming to talk business, but my young brother's boots
are not the only things that make a noise. We took his boots away and
made him wear Dora's bath slippers, which are soft and woolly, and
hardly any soles to them; and of course we wanted to see the Uncle,
so we looked over the banisters when he came, and we were as quiet
as mice -- but when Eliza had let him in she went straight down to the
kitchen and made the most awful row you ever heard, it sounded like the
Day of judgement, or all the saucepans and crockery in the house being
kicked about the floor, but she told me afterwards it was only the
tea-tray and one or two cups and saucers, that she had knocked over in
her flurry. We heard the Uncle say
and then
he went into Father's study and the door was shut -- we didn't see him
properly at all that time.

I don't believe the dinner was very nice. Something got burned I'm
sure -- for we smelt it. It was an extra smell, besides the mutton.

I know that got burned. Eliza wouldn't have any of us in the kitchen
except Dora -- till dinner was over. Then we got what was left of the
dessert, and had it on the stairs -- just round the corner where they
can't see you from the hall, unless the first landing gas is lighted.
Suddenly the study door opened and the Uncle came out and went and felt
in his greatcoat pocket. It was his cigar-case he wanted. We saw that
afterwards. We got a much better view of him then. He didn't look like
an Indian but just like a kind of brown, big Englishman, and of course
he didn't see us, but we heard him mutter to himself
When he went back to the study he didn't shut the door properly. That
door has always been a little tiresome since the day we took the lock
off to get out the pencil sharpener H. O. had shoved into the keyhole.
We didn't listen -- really and truly -- but the Indian Uncle has a very big
voice, and Father was not going to be beaten by a poor Indian in talking
or anything else -- so he spoke up too, like a man, and I heard him say it
was a very good business, and only wanted a little capital -- and he said
it as if it was an imposition he had learned, and he hated having to
say it. The Uncle said
to that, and then he said he
was afraid that what that same business wanted was not capital but
management. Then I heard my Father say
Then the poor Indian said something about vintage -- and that
a poor, broken-down man like he was couldn't be too careful. And then
Father said
and afterwards they talked about
Native Races and Imperial something or other and it got very dull.

So then Oswald remembered that you must not hear what people do not
intend you to hear -- even if you are not listening and he said
Alice said
and went and
shut the study door softly but quite tight. So it was no use staying
there any longer, and we went to the nursery.

Then Noel said
We all agreed with him, and we were glad to have the thing explained,
because we had not understood before what Father wanted to have people
to dinner for -- and not let us come in
said Alice
Then Dora said
And we all agreed that that was so
Dora said, while Oswald put
lumps of coal on the fire with his fingers, so as not to make a noise.
He is a very thoughtful boy, and he did not wipe his fingers on his
trouser leg as perhaps Noel or H. O. would have done, but he just rubbed
them on Dora's handkerchief while she was talking
Dora went on
said Dicky gloomily
Oswald told him not to talk such tommy-rot because the Indian was a
relation, so of course he couldn't do anything dishonourable. And Dora
said it was all right any way, because she had washed up the spoons and
forks herself and counted them, and they were all there, and she had
put them into their wash-leather bag, and taken them back to
Albert-next-door's Mother
she went on
said Oswald
said H. O
I thought of all the things we had bought with our half-sovereign -- the
rabbit and the sweets and the almonds and raisins and figs and the
coconut: and I thought of the nasty mutton and things, and while I was
thinking about it all Alice said
I
should have said it myself if she had given me time.

We got the little ones to go to bed by promising to put a note on their
dressing-table saying what had happened, so that they might know the
first thing in the morning, or in the middle of the night if they
happened to wake up, and then we elders arranged everything.

I waited by the back door, and when the Uncle was beginning to go Dicky
was to drop a marble down between the banisters for a signal, so that I
could run round and meet the Uncle as he came out.

This seems like deceit, but if you are a thoughtful and considerate boy
you will understand that we could not go down and say to the Uncle in
the hall under Father's eye
You will see, if you think it over,
that this would not have been at all polite to Father.

So when the Uncle left, Father saw him to the door and let him out, and
then went back to the study, looking very sad, Dora says.

As the poor Indian came down our steps he saw me there at the gate.

I did not mind his being poor, and I said
just
as politely as though he had been about to ascend into one of the gilded
chariots of the rich and affluent, instead of having to walk to the
station a quarter of a mile in the mud, unless he had the money for a
tram fare
I said it again, for he stood staring at me.
I don't suppose he was used to politeness from boys -- some boys are
anything but -- especially to the Aged Poor.

So I said
yet once again. Then he said
Then I saw I must speak plainly with him, man to man. So I did. I said
I didn't like to tell him we had heard the dreadful
truth from his own lips, so I went on
I could have gone on much longer, but he interrupted me to
say
I said; and I do hope you people who are reading this
story have not guessed before that I was Oswald all the time
said the poor Indian
I said
Then I went in and told the others, and we wrote a paper and put it on
the boy's dressing-table, and it said
We did not tell Father that the Uncle was coming to dinner with us,
for the polite reason that I have explained before. But we had to tell
Eliza; so we said a friend was coming to dinner and we wanted everything
very nice. I think she thought it was Albert-next-door, but she was in
a good temper that day, and she agreed to cook the rabbit and to make a
pudding with currants in it. And when one o'clock came the Indian Uncle
came too. I let him in and helped him off with his greatcoat, which was
all furry inside, and took him straight to the nursery. We were to have
dinner there as usual, for we had decided from the first that he would
enjoy himself more if he was not made a stranger of. We agreed to treat
him as one of ourselves, because if we were too polite, he might think
it was our pride because he was poor.

He shook hands with us all and asked our ages, and what schools we went
to, and shook his head when we said we were having a holiday just now. I
felt rather uncomfortable -- I always do when they talk about schools -- and
I couldn't think of anything to say to show him we meant to treat him
as one of ourselves. I did ask if he played cricket. He said he had not
played lately. And then no one said anything till dinner came in. We had
all washed our faces and hands and brushed our hair before he came in,
and we all looked very nice, especially Oswald, who had had his hair
cut that very morning. When Eliza had brought in the rabbit and gone
out again, we looked at each other in silent despair, like in books.
It seemed as if it were going to be just a dull dinner like the one the
poor Indian had had the night before; only, of course, the things to
eat would be nicer. Dicky kicked Oswald under the table to make him say
something -- and he had his new boots on, too!-- but Oswald did not kick
back; then the Uncle asked
Suddenly Alice said
He did not hesitate a moment, but said
and then we knew it was all right.

So we at once showed the Uncle how to be a dauntless hunter. The rabbit
was the deer we had slain in the green forest with our trusty yew bows,
and we toasted the joints of it, when the Uncle had carved it, on bits
of firewood sharpened to a point. The Uncle's piece got a little burnt,
but he said it was delicious, and he said game was always nicer when you
had killed it yourself. When Eliza had taken away the rabbit bones and
brought in the pudding, we waited till she had gone out and shut the
door, and then we put the dish down on the floor and slew the pudding in
the dish in the good old-fashioned way. It was a wild boar at bay, and
very hard indeed to kill, even with forks. The Uncle was very fierce
indeed with the pudding, and jumped and howled when he speared it, but
when it came to his turn to be helped, he said
But he had some almonds and raisins -- when we had climbed to the top of
the chest of drawers to pluck them from the boughs of the great trees;
and he had a fig from the cargo that the rich merchants brought in their
ship -- the long drawer was the ship -- and the rest of us had the sweets
and the coconut. It was a very glorious and beautiful feast, and when it
was over we said we hoped it was better than the dinner last night. And
he said
He was too polite to say what he really
thought about Father's dinner. And we saw that though he might be poor,
he was a true gentleman.

He smoked a cigar while we finished up what there was left to eat, and
told us about tiger shooting and about elephants. We asked him about
wigwams, and wampum, and mocassins, and beavers, but he did not seem
to know, or else he was shy about talking of the wonders of his native
land.

We liked him very much indeed, and when he was going at last, Alice
nudged me, and I said
And I put the money into his hand
he said, turning the money over and
looking at it
We told him all about the different ways we had looked for treasure, and
when we had been telling some time he sat down, to listen better and at
last we told him how Alice had played at divining-rod, and how it really
had found a half-sovereign.

Then he said he would like to see her do it again. But we explained that
the rod would only show gold and silver, and that we were quite sure
there was no more gold in the house, because we happened to have looked
very carefully
said he
Dora said
said the Uncle again, looking at the hole in the big
chair that we burnt when we had Guy Fawkes' Day indoors
said Alice
And the rest of us said
The Uncle wouldn't take it, but he asked
a lot of questions, and at last he went away. And when he went he said
Oswald said if he ever could we should like to come very much, but he
was not to trouble to get such a nice dinner as ours, because we could
do very well with cold mutton and rice pudding. We do not like these
things, but Oswald knows how to behave. Then the poor Indian went away.

We had not got any treasure by this party, but we had had a very good
time, and I am sure the Uncle enjoyed himself.

We were so sorry he was gone that we could none of us eat much tea;
but we did not mind, because we had pleased the poor Indian and enjoyed
ourselves too. Besides, as Dora said
so it did not matter about not wanting tea.

Only H. O. did not seem to think a continual feast was a contented mind,
and Eliza gave him a powder in what was left of the red-currant jelly
Father had for the nasty dinner.

But the rest of us were quite well, and I think it must have been the
coconut with H. O. We hoped nothing had disagreed with the Uncle, but we
never knew
Now it is coming near the end of our treasure-seeking, and the end was
so wonderful that now nothing is like it used to be. It is like as
if our fortunes had been in an earthquake, and after those, you know,
everything comes out wrong-way up.

The day after the Uncle speared the pudding with us opened in gloom and
sadness. But you never know. It was destined to be a day when things
happened. Yet no sign of this appeared in the early morning. Then all
was misery and upsetness. None of us felt quite well; I don't know why:
and Father had one of his awful colds, so Dora persuaded him not to go
to London, but to stay cosy and warm in the study, and she made him some
gruel. She makes it better than Eliza does; Eliza's gruel is all little
lumps, and when you suck them it is dry oatmeal inside.

We kept as quiet as we could, and I made H. O. do some lessons, like the
G. B. had advised us to. But it was very dull. There are some days
when you seem to have got to the end of all the things that could ever
possibly happen to you, and you feel you will spend all the rest of your
life doing dull things just the same way. Days like this are generally
wet days. But, as I said, you never know.

Then Dicky said if things went on like this he should run away to sea,
and Alice said she thought it would be rather nice to go into a convent.
H. O. was a little disagreeable because of the powder Eliza had given
him, so he tried to read two books at once, one with each eye, just
because Noel wanted one of the books, which was very selfish of him, so
it only made his headache worse. H. O. is getting old enough to learn by
experience that it is wrong to be selfish, and when he complained about
his head Oswald told him whose fault it was, because I am older than
he is, and it is my duty to show him where he is wrong. But he began to
cry, and then Oswald had to cheer him up because of Father wanting to be
quiet. So Oswald said
And Dora said Oswald was too
bad.

Of course Oswald was not going to interfere again, so he went to look
out of the window and see the trams go by, and by and by H. O. came and
looked out too, and Oswald, who knows when to be generous and forgiving,
gave him a piece of blue pencil and two nibs, as good as new, to keep.

As they were looking out at the rain splashing on the stones in the
street they saw a four-wheeled cab come lumbering up from the way the
station is. Oswald called out
So they all came to the window to look. Oswald had only said that about
stopping and he was stricken with wonder and amaze when the cab really
did stop. It had boxes on the top and knobby parcels sticking out of
the window, and it was something like going away to the seaside and
something like the gentleman who takes things about in a carriage with
the wooden shutters up, to sell to the drapers' shops. The cabman got
down, and some one inside handed out ever so many parcels of different
shapes and sizes, and the cabman stood holding them in his arms and
grinning over them.

Dora said
And then from inside the cab some one put out a foot feeling for
the step, like a tortoise's foot coming out from under his shell
when you are holding him off the ground, and then a leg came and more
parcels, and then Noel cried
And it was.

Eliza opened the door, and we were all leaning over the banisters.
Father heard the noise of parcels and boxes in the hall, and he came out
without remembering how bad his cold was. If you do that yourself when
you have a cold they call you careless and naughty. Then we heard the
poor Indian say to Father
Then he and Father went into the study and the door was shut -- and we
went down and looked at the parcels. Some were done up in old, dirty
newspapers, and tied with bits of rag, and some were in brown paper and
string from the shops, and there were boxes. We wondered if the Uncle
had come to stay and this was his luggage, or whether it was to sell.
Some of it smelt of spices, like merchandise -- and one bundle Alice felt
certain was a bale. We heard a hand on the knob of the study door after
a bit, and Alice said
and we all got away but H. O., and the Uncle caught him by the
leg as he was trying to get upstairs after us
said the Uncle, and the rest of us came
down because it would have been dishonourable to leave H. O. alone in a
scrape, and we wanted to see what was in the parcels
said H. O
said the good, kind, Indian man to all
of us
I have several times told you about our being dumb with amazement and
terror and joy, and things like that, but I never remember us being
dumber than we were when he said this.

The Indian Uncle went on
Noel asked; and when he said 'Yes'
we were all very much surprised, for we never thought of his being that
sort of Indian. We thought he was the Red kind, and of course his not
being accounted for his ignorance of beavers and things.

He got Eliza to help, and we took all the parcels into the nursery and
he undid them and undid them and undid them, till the papers lay thick
on the floor. Father came too and sat in the Guy Fawkes chair. I cannot
begin to tell you all the things that kind friend of Uncle's had sent
us. He must be a very agreeable person.

There were toys for the kids and model engines for Dick and me, and a
lot of books, and Japanese china tea-sets for the girls, red and white
and gold -- there were sweets by the pound and by the box -- and long yards
and yards of soft silk from India, to make frocks for the girls -- and a
real Indian sword for Oswald and a book of Japanese pictures for Noel,
and some ivory chess men for Dicky: the castles of the chessmen are
elephant-and-castles. There is a railway station called that; I never
knew what it meant before. The brown paper and string parcels had boxes
of games in them -- and big cases of preserved fruits and things. And the
shabby old newspaper parcels and the boxes had the Indian things in. I
never saw so many beautiful things before. There were carved fans
and silver bangles and strings of amber beads, and necklaces of uncut
gems -- turquoises and garnets, the Uncle said they were -- and shawls and
scarves of silk, and cabinets of brown and gold, and ivory boxes and
silver trays, and brass things. The Uncle kept saying
or
or
And Father looked on as if it was a dream, till the Uncle suddenly gave
him an ivory paper-knife and a box of cigars, and said
And he
winked at my Father, for H. O. and I saw him. And my Father winked back,
though he has always told us not to.

That was a wonderful day. It was a treasure, and no mistake! I never saw
such heaps and heaps of presents, like things out of a fairy-tale -- and
even Eliza had a shawl. Perhaps she deserved it, for she did cook the
rabbit and the pudding; and Oswald says it is not her fault if her nose
turns up and she does not brush her hair. I do not think Eliza likes
brushing things. It is the same with the carpets. But Oswald tries to
make allowances even for people who do not wash their ears.

The Indian Uncle came to see us often after that, and his friend always
sent us something. Once he tipped us a sovereign each -- the Uncle brought
it; and once he sent us money to go to the Crystal Palace, and the Uncle
took us; and another time to a circus; and when Christmas was near the
Uncle said
We said we should be delighted, if Father had no objection, because that
is the proper thing to say, and the poor Indian, I mean the Uncle, said
We all got Christmas presents for the Uncle. The girls made him a
handkerchief case and a comb bag, out of some of the pieces of silk he
had given them. I got him a knife with three blades; H. O. got a siren
whistle, a very strong one, and Dicky joined with me in the knife, and
Noel would give the Indian ivory box that Uncle's friend had sent on the
wonderful Fairy Cab day. He said it was the very nicest thing he had,
and he was sure Uncle wouldn't mind his not having bought it with his
own money.

I think Father's business must have got better -- perhaps Uncle's friend
put money in it and that did it good, like feeding the starving. Anyway
we all had new suits, and the girls had the green silk from India made
into frocks, and on Boxing Day we went in two cabs -- Father and the girls
in one, and us boys in the other.

We wondered very much where the Indian Uncle lived, because we had not
been told. And we thought when the cab began to go up the hill towards
the Heath that perhaps the Uncle lived in one of the poky little houses
up at the top of Greenwich. But the cab went right over the Heath and in
at some big gates, and through a shrubbery all white with frost like
a fairy forest, because it was Christmas time. And at last we stopped
before one of those jolly, big, ugly red houses with a lot of windows,
that are so comfortable inside, and on the steps was the Indian Uncle,
looking very big and grand, in a blue cloth coat and yellow sealskin
waistcoat, with a bunch of seals hanging from it
said Dicky
Noel thought it was very likely, because he knew that in these big
houses there were always thousands of stately butlers.

The Uncle came down the steps and opened the cab door himself, which I
don't think butlers would expect to have to do. And he took us in. It
was a lovely hall, with bear and tiger skins on the floor, and a big
clock with the faces of the sun and moon dodging out when it was day or
night, and Father Time with a scythe coming out at the hours, and the
name on it was
and there was a fox eating a
stuffed duck in a glass case, and horns of stags and other animals over
the doors
said the Uncle
So then we knew he wasn't the butler, but it
must be his own house, for only the master of the house has a study.

His study was not much like Father's. It had hardly any books, but
swords and guns and newspapers and a great many boots, and boxes half
unpacked, with more Indian things bulging out of them.

We gave him our presents and he was awfully pleased. Then he gave us his
Christmas presents. You must be tired of hearing about presents, but
I must remark that all the Uncle's presents were watches; there was a
watch for each of us, with our names engraved inside, all silver except
H. O.'s, and that was a Waterbury
the Uncle said.
I don't know what he meant.

Then the Uncle looked at Father, and Father said
So the Uncle coughed and stood up and made a speech. He said
I said
and Alice whispered
Of course you know the answer to that.

The Uncle went on
He blew his nose and kissed us all round. As it was Christmas I did
not mind, though I am much too old for it on other dates. Then he said
I thought it was not quite polite of him to say so, till I saw that
what he valued so much was a threepenny-bit on his watch-chain, and, of
course, I saw it must be the one we had given him.

He said
Then he shook Father by the hand, and they blew their noses; and then
Father said
But Uncle interrupted by saying
Then H. O.
said
as if he were very disappointed.
The Uncle replied
Then we all went down and looked at the fox thoroughly, and made the
Uncle take the glass off so that we could see it all round and then the
Uncle took us all over the house, which is the most comfortable one I
have ever been in. There is a beautiful portrait of Mother in Father's
sitting-room. The Uncle must be very rich indeed. This ending is like
what happens in Dickens's books; but I think it was much jollier to
happen like a book, and it shows what a nice man the Uncle is, the way
he did it all.

Think how flat it would have been if the Uncle had said, when we first
offered him the one and threepence farthing
Instead of which he
saved up the news of his wealth till Christmas, and then told us all
in one glorious burst. Besides, I can't help it if it is like Dickens,
because it happens this way. Real life is often something like books.

Presently, when we had seen the house, we were taken into the
drawing-room, and there was Mrs Leslie, who gave us the shillings and
wished us good hunting, and Lord Tottenham, and Albert-next-door's
Uncle -- and Albert-next-door, and his Mother (I'm not very fond of her),
and best of all our own Robber and his two kids, and our Robber had a
new suit on. The Uncle told us he had asked the people who had been kind
to us, and Noel said
The Uncle said he had not had the courage to ask a strange editor to
dinner; but Lord Tottenham was an old friend of Uncle's, and he had
introduced Uncle to Mrs Leslie, and that was how he had the pride and
pleasure of welcoming her to our house-warming. And he made her a bow
like you see on a Christmas card.

Then Alice asked
But everybody laughed, and Uncle said
And I said there was the butcher, and he was really kind; but they only
laughed, and Father said you could not ask all your business friends to
a private dinner.

Then it was dinner-time, and we thought of Uncle's talk about cold
mutton and rice. But it was a beautiful dinner, and I never saw such a
dessert! We had ours on plates to take away into another sitting-room,
which was much jollier than sitting round the table with the grown-ups.
But the Robber's kids stayed with their Father. They were very shy and
frightened, and said hardly anything, but looked all about with very
bright eyes. H. O. thought they were like white mice; but afterwards we
got to know them very well, and in the end they were not so mousy. And
there is a good deal of interesting stuff to tell about them; but I
shall put all that in another book, for there is no room for it in this
one. We played desert islands all the afternoon and drank Uncle's health
in ginger wine. It was H. O. that upset his over Alice's green silk
dress, and she never even rowed him. Brothers ought not to have
favourites, and Oswald would never be so mean as to have a favourite
sister, or, if he had, wild horses should not make him tell who it was.

And now we are to go on living in the big house on the Heath, and it is
very jolly.

Mrs Leslie often comes to see us, and our own Robber and
Albert-next-door's uncle. The Indian Uncle likes him because he has been
in India too and is brown; but our Uncle does not like Albert-next-door.
He says he is a muff. And I am to go to Rugby, and so are Noel and H.
O., and perhaps to Balliol afterwards. Balliol is my Father's college.
It has two separate coats of arms, which many other colleges are not
allowed. Noel is going to be a poet and Dicky wants to go into Father's
business.

The Uncle is a real good old sort; and just think, we should never have
found him if we hadn't made up our minds to be Treasure Seekers! Noel
made a poem about it --

    Lo! the poor Indian from lands afar,
    Comes where the treasure seekers are;
    We looked for treasure, but we find
    The best treasure of all is the Uncle good and kind.

I thought it was rather rot, but Alice would show it to the Uncle, and
he liked it very much. He kissed Alice and he smacked Noel on the back,
and he said
</text>
