<text>
Men of little showing --
     For their work continueth,
     And their work continueth,
      Greater than their knowing.

     Western wind and open surge
      Tore us from our mothers;
     Flung us on a naked shore
     (Twelve bleak houses by the shore!
     Seven summers by the shore!)
      'Mid two hundred brothers.

     There we met with famous men
      Set in office o'er us.
     And they beat on us with rods --
     Faithfully with many rods --
     Daily beat us on with rods --
      For the love they bore us!

     Out of Egypt unto Troy --
      Over Himalaya --
     Far and sure our bands have gone --
     Hy-Brasil or Babylon,
     Islands of the Southern Run,
      And cities of Cathaia!

     And we all praise famous men --
      Ancients of the College;
     For they taught us common sense ---
     Tried to teach us common sense --
     Truth and God's Own Common Sense
      Which is more than knowledge!

     Each degree of Latitude
      Strung about Creation
     Seeth one (or more) of us,
     (Of one muster all of us --
     Of one master all of us --)
      Keen in his vocation.

     This we learned from famous men
      Knowing not its uses
     When they showed in daily work
     Man must finish off his work --
     Right or wrong, his daily work --
      And without excuses.

     Servants of the staff and chain,
      Mine and fuse and grapnel --
     Some before the face of Kings,
     Stand before the face of Kings;
     Bearing gifts to divers Kings --
      Gifts of Case and Shrapnel.

     This we learned from famous men
      Teaching in our borders.
     Who declare'd it was best,
     Safest, easiest and best --
     Expeditious, wise and best --
      To obey your orders.

     Some beneath the further stars
      Bear the greater burden.
     Set to serve the lands they rule,
     (Save he serve no man may rule)
     Serve and love the lands they rule;
      Seeking praise nor guerdon.

     This we learned from famous men
      Knowing not we learned it.
     Only, as the years went by --
     Lonely, as the years went by --
     Far from help as years went by
      Plainer we discerned it.

     Wherefore praise we famous men
      From whose bays we borrow --
     They that put aside Today --
     All the joys of their Today --
     And with toil of their Today
      Bought for us Tomorrow!

     Bless and praise we famous men
      Men of little showing!
     For their work continueth
     And their work continueth
     Broad and deep continueth
      Great beyond their knowing
In summer all right-minded boys built huts in the furze-hill behind the
College -- little lairs whittled out of the heart of the prickly bushes,
full of stumps, odd root-ends, and spikes, but, since they were strictly
forbidden, palaces of delight. And for the fifth summer in succession,
Stalky, McTurk, and Beetle (this was before they reached the dignity of
a study) had built like beavers a place of retreat and meditation, where
they smoked.

Now, there was nothing in their characters as known to Mr. Prout,
their house-master, at all commanding respect; nor did Foxy, the
subtle red-haired school Sergeant, trust them. His business was to wear
tennis-shoes, carry binoculars, and swoop hawklike upon evil boys. Had
he taken the field alone, that hut would have been raided, for Foxy
knew the manners of his quarry; but Providence moved Mr. Prout,
whose school-name, derived from the size of his feet, was Hoofer, to
investigate on his own account; and it was the cautious Stalky who
found the track of his pugs on the very floor of their lair one peaceful
afternoon when Stalky would fain have forgotten Prout and his works in
a volume of Surtees and a new briar-wood pipe. Crusoe, at sight of the
footprint, did not act more swiftly than Stalky. He removed the pipes,
swept up all loose match-ends, and departed to warn Beetle and McTurk.

But it was characteristic of the boy that he did not approach his allies
till he had met and conferred with little Hartopp, President of the
Natural History Society, an institution which Stalky held in contempt,
Hartopp was more than surprised when the boy meekly, as he knew how,
begged to propose himself, Beetle, and McTurk as candidates; confessed
to a long-smothered interest in first-flowerings, early butterflies, and
new arrivals, and volunteered, if Mr. Hartopp saw fit, to enter on the
new life at once. Being a master, Hartopp was suspicious; but he was
also an enthusiast, and his gentle little soul had been galled by
chance-heard remarks from the three, and specially Beetle. So he was
gracious to that repentant sinner, and entered the three names in his
book.

Then, and not till then, did Stalky seek Beetle and McTurk in their
house form-room. They were stowing away books for a quiet afternoon in
the furze, which they called the
said Stalky, serenely
said Beetle
Bother! Likewise blow!'" said McTurk thoughtfully, unpacking the
volumes with which his chest was cased. The boys carried their libraries
between their belt and their collar
said Beetle
Stalky sat on a desk drumming his heels on the form
said Beetle
In the interests of science bounds were largely relaxed for the members
of the Natural History Society. They could wander, if they kept clear
of all houses, practically where they chose; Mr. Hartopp holding himself
responsible for their good conduct.

Beetle began to see this as McTurk began the kicking
he said, guarding the afflicted part
said Beetle
said McTurk
said Stalky, turning to some fags' lockers behind him
He
flung out a tangle of decayed roots and adjusted the slide
said McTurk, simply, with immense feeling
said Beetle, firmly
They all sweated; for Stalky led them at a smart trot west away along
the cliffs under the furze-hills, crossing combe after gorzy combe. They
took no heed to flying rabbits or fluttering fritillaries, and all that
Turkey said of geology was utterly unquotable
he puffed at last, and they flung themselves
down on the short, springy turf between the drone of the sea below and
the light summer wind among the inland trees. They were looking into a
combe half full of old, high furze in gay bloom that ran up to a fringe
of brambles and a dense wood of mixed timber and hollies. It was as
though one-half the combe were filled with golden fire to the cliff's
edge. The side nearest to them was open grass, and fairly bristled with
notice-boards
said Stalky, reading the nearest
said McTurk, whose father held many acres in
Ireland
Beetle disconnected the ring, thrust the net into a pocket, shut up
the handle to a two-foot stave, and slid the cane-ring round his waist.
Stalky led inland to the wood, which was, perhaps, a quarter of a mile
from the sea, and reached the fringe of the brambles
said the tactician
On all fours, save when he clung to his spectacles, Beetle wormed into
the gorse, and presently announced between grunts of pain that he had
found a very fair fox-track. This was well for Beetle, since Stalky
pinched him _a tergo_. Down that tunnel they crawled. It was evidently
a highway for the inhabitants of the combe; and, to their inexpressible
joy, ended, at the very edge of the cliff, in a few square feet of dry
turf walled and roofed with impenetrable gorse
said Stalky,
returning a knife to his pocket
He parted the tough stems before him, and it was as a window opened on
a far view of Lundy, and the deep sea sluggishly nosing the pebbles a
couple of hundred feet below. They could hear young jackdaws squawking
on the ledges, the hiss and jabber of a nest of hawks somewhere out of
sight; and, with great deliberation, Stalky spat on to the back of a
young rabbit sunning himself far down where only a cliff-rabbit could
have found foot-hold. Great gray and black gulls screamed against the
jackdaws; the heavy-scented acres of bloom round them were alive with
low-nesting birds, singing or silent as the shadow of the wheeling hawks
passed and returned; and on the naked turf across the combe rabbits
thumped and frolicked
said Stalky,
filling himself a pipe
He spat
again approvingly, and was silent.

McTurk and Beetle had taken out their books and were lying on their
stomachs, chin in hand. The sea snored and gurgled; the birds, scattered
for the moment by these new animals, returned to their businesses, and
the boys read on in the rich, warm, sleepy silence
said Stalky, shutting "Handley Cross"
 cautiously, and peering through the jungle. A man with a gun appeared on
the sky-line to the east
said Beetle
said Stalky
Beetle was already far up the tunnel. They heard him gasp indescribably:
there was the crash of a heavy body leaping through the furze
The keeper threw the gun to
his shoulder, and fired both barrels in their direction. The pellets
dusted the dry stems round them as a big fox plunged between Stalky's
legs, and ran over the cliff-edge.

They said nothing till they reached the wood, torn, disheveled, hot, but
unseen
said Stalky
said Beetle
McTurk's lean face had turned pearly white; his mouth, generally half
open, was tight shut, and his eyes blazed. They had never seen him like
this save once in a sad time of civil war
he said, in a grating
voice, as he brushed prickles from his head
said Stalky
said McTurk, pushing
through the hollies
said McTurk, turning savagely
said Beetle, miserably, as they followed. Indeed, this
was a new Turkey -- a haughty, angular, nose-lifted Turkey -- whom they
accompanied through a shrubbery on to a lawn, where a white-whiskered
old gentleman with a cleek was alternately putting and blaspheming
vigorously
McTurk began in this new creaking voice of
his
his eyes traveled up and down the boy
McTurk's not too lovely features had
twisted themselves into a horrible sneer at the word pheasant
He choked with emotion. McTurk's heel tapped the lawn and he stuttered a
little -- two sure signs that he was losing his temper. But why should he,
the offender, be angry
McTurk was quoting
confusedly from his father, while the old gentleman made noises in his
throat
he gurgled at last; Stalky and Beetle quaking
And four years before Stalky and Beetle had carefully kicked McTurk out
of his Irish dialect! Assuredly he had gone mad or taken a sunstroke,
and as assuredly he would be slain -- once by the old gentleman and once
by the Head. A public licking for the three was the least they could
expect. Yet -- if their eyes and ears were to be trusted -- the old
gentleman had collapsed. It might be a lull before the storm, but
He was still gurgling
with a stamp of the foot
Forgotten -- forgotten was the College and the decency due to elders!
McTurk was treading again the barren purple mountains of the rainy
West coast, where in his holidays he was viceroy of four thousand naked
acres, only son of a three-hundred-year-old house, lord of a crazy
fishing-boat, and the idol of his father's shiftless tenantry. It was
the landed man speaking to his equal -- deep calling to deep -- and the old
gentleman acknowledged the cry
said he
McTurk began, and he told his tale alternately
as a schoolboy and, when the iniquity of the thing overcame him, as an
indignant squire; concluding
The two had fallen into step beside each other on the lawn, and Colonel
Dabney was talking as one man to another
They were fed on the terrace by a gray-haired housekeeper.
Stalky and Beetle merely ate, but McTurk with bright eyes continued a
free and lofty discourse; and ever the old gentleman treated him as a
brother
He dismissed them with many compliments by the high Lodge-gate in the
split-oak park palings and they stood still; even Stalky, who had played
second, not to say a dumb, fiddle, regarding McTurk as one from another
world. The two glasses of strong home-brewed had brought a melancholy
upon the boy, for, slowly strolling with his hands in his pockets, he
crooned
Under other circumstances Stalky and Beetle would have fallen upon him,
for that song was barred utterly -- anathema -- the sin of witchcraft. But
seeing what he had wrought, they danced round him in silence, waiting
till it pleased him to touch earth.

The tea-bell rang when they were still half a mile from College. McTurk
shivered and came out of dreams. The glory of his holiday estate had
left him. He was a Colleger of the College, speaking English once more
said Stalky, generously
They spun wildly on their heels, jodeling after the accepted manner of
a
which is not unremotely allied to the primitive man's song of
triumph, and dropped down the hill by the path from the gasometer just
in time to meet their house-master, who had spent the afternoon watching
their abandoned hut in the
Unluckily, all Mr. Prout's imagination leaned to the darker side of
life, and he looked on those young-eyed cherubims most sourly. Boys that
he understood attended house-matches and could be accounted for at
any moment. But he had heard McTurk openly deride cricket -- even
house-matches; Beetle's views on the honor of the house he knew were
incendiary; and he could never tell when the soft and smiling Stalky was
laughing at him. Consequently -- since human nature is what it is -- those
boys had been doing wrong somewhere. He hoped it was nothing very
serious, but
Stalky, still on his heels,
whirled like a dancing dervish to the dining-hall
Beetle spun behind him with
outstretched arms
McTurk's voice cracked.

Now was there or was there not a distinct flavor of beer as they shot
past Mr. Prout?

He was unlucky in that his conscience as a house-master impelled him to
consult his associates. Had he taken his pipe and his troubles to
little Hartopp's rooms he would, perhaps, have been saved confusion, for
Hartopp believed in boys, and knew something about them. His fate led
him to King, a fellow house-master, no friend of his, but a zealous
hater of Stalky &amp; Co
said King, rubbing his hands when the tale was told
said Prout, who had from a distance seen
Beetle return, with interest, his butterfly-net to a tearful fag
far down the corridor
said King
The boys did not concern themselves with lessons for the next few days.
They had all Colonel Dabney's estate to play with, and they explored it
with the stealth of Red Indians and the accuracy of burglars. They could
enter either by the Lodge-gates on the upper road -- they were careful to
ingratiate themselves with the Lodge-keeper and his wife -- drop down into
the combe, and return along the cliffs; or they could begin at the combe
and climb up into the road.

They were careful not to cross the Colonel's path -- he had served his
turn, and they would not out-wear their welcome -- nor did they show up on
the sky-line when they could move in cover. The shelter of the gorze
by the cliff-edge was their chosen retreat. Beetle christened it the
Pleasant Isle of Aves, for the peace and the shelter of it; and here,
the pipes and tobacco once cache'd in a convenient ledge an arm's length
down the cliff, their position was legally unassailable.

For, observe, Colonel Dabney had not invited them to enter his house.
Therefore, they did not need to ask specific leave to go visiting; and
school rules were strict on that point. He had merely thrown open his
grounds to them; and, since they were lawful Bug-hunters, their extended
bounds ran up to his notice-boards in the combe and his Lodge-gates on
the hill.

They were amazed at their own virtue
said Stalky, flat on his back, staring into the
blue
said Beetle -- he was stretched at the edge of the cliff spitting
thoughtfully
said McTurk, deep in a book
said Stalky
said Beetle
said Stalky
said Beetle
said Stalky,
reflectively
said McTurk
with a sneer
Beetle grunted
cried Stalky
They were, and their very rightness puzzled Prout, King, and the
Sergeant. Boys with bad consciences show it. They slink out past the
Fives Court in haste, and smile nervously when questioned. They return,
disordered, in bare time to save a call-over. They nod and wink and
giggle one to the other, scattering at the approach of a master. But
Stalky and his allies had long out-lived these manifestations of youth.
They strolled forth unconcernedly, and returned in excellent shape after
a light refreshment of strawberries and cream at the Lodge.

The Lodge-keeper had been promoted to keeper, _vice_ the murderous
fisherman, and his wife made much of the boys. The man, too, gave them
a squirrel, which they presented to the Natural History Society; thereby
checkmating little Hartopp, who wished to know what they were doing for
Science. Foxy faithfully worked some deep Devon lanes behind a lonely
cross-roads inn; and it was curious that Prout and King, members of
Common-room seldom friendly, walked together in the same direction -- that
is to say, northeast.

Now, the Pleasant Isle of Aves lay due southwest
said Stalky
said Beetle sweetly
said Stalky
That day came a little sooner than they expected -- came when the
Sergeant, whose duty it was to collect defaulters, did not attend an
afternoon call-over
said Stalky
said Beetle
They strolled towards the swimming-baths, and presently overtook King
he said
said Stalky, when they were out of earshot
They walked leisurely over the combes till they reached the line of
notice-boards
They dived into the gorse at right angles to the tunnel, openly crossing
the grass, and lay still in Aves
Stalky carefully put away the pipes and tobacco.
The Sergeant, out of breath, was leaning against the fence, raking
the furze with his binoculars, but he might as well have tried to see
through a sand-bag. Anon, Prout and King appeared behind him. They
conferred
The Sergeant was waist-deep in crackling, swaying furze, his ears filled
with the noise of his own progress. The boys reached the shelter of the
wood and looked down through a belt of hollies
said Stalky, critically
Suddenly the keeper passed them at a trot
he said
Stalky replied in the broad Devon that was the boy's
_langue de guerre_
He dropped into the funnel-like combe,
which presently began to fill with noises, notably King's voice crying
shouted King.
Evidently the Sergeant had surrendered to the major force.

Beetle lay at full length on the turf behind the Lodge, literally biting
the earth in spasms of joy. Stalky kicked him upright. There was nothing
of levity about Stalky or McTurk save a stray muscle twitching on the
cheek.

They tapped at the Lodge door, where they were always welcome
said the woman
said Stalky
The woman withdrew, wiping her pink hands on her apron, and left them
in the parlor. There was a scuffle of feet on the gravel outside the
heavily-leaded diamond panes, and then the voice of Colonel Dabney,
something clearer than a bugle
Beetle snatched a crochet-work antimacassar from the shiny horsehair
sofa, stuffed it into his mouth, and rolled out of sight
Twenty-one years in the army had left their mark on Foxy. He obeyed
The high Lodge gate shut with a clang
puffed Colonel Dabney
gulped Stalky, his head on the horsehair pillow.
McTurk was eating the rag-carpet before the speckless hearth, and the
sofa heaved to the emotions of Beetle. Through the thick glass the
figures without showed blue, distorted, and menacing
King had evidently been running
up hill
Stalky buried his head again
Prout's deep voice was added to the
discussion. They could hear him pant
Colonel Dabney was growing more and more Irish
said Prout
A second time the gate clanged. They waited till Colonel Dabney had
returned to the house, and fell into one another's arms, crowing for
breath
Stalky wiped his eyes
sobbed McTurk, groping for the door and kicking the
prostrate Beetle before him.

They found the beast in an evil-smelling box, left two half-crowns for
payment, and staggered home. Only the badger grunted most marvelous like
Colonel Dabney, and they dropped him twice or thrice with shrieks of
helpless laughter. They were but imperfectly recovered when Foxy met
them by the Fives Court with word that they were to go up to their
dormitory and wait till sent for
said Beetle
Foxy answered, in an
awful voice. He was sorely ruffled in his mind
Stalky had reached the extreme stage of hiccups
Foxy thought to himself
said Stalky, rising from the bed on which he had
thrown himself
said McTurk, whose eyes were running over
said Beetle
They were summoned to their house-master's study, King and Foxy
supporting Prout, and Foxy had three canes under his arm. King leered
triumphantly, for there were tears, undried tears of mirth, on the boys'
cheeks. Then the examination began.

Yes, they had walked along the cliffs. Yes, they had entered Colonel
Dabney's grounds. Yes, they had seen the notice-boards (at this point
Beetle sputtered hysterically). For what purpose had they entered
Colonel Dabney's grounds
Here King, who loathed the Natural History Society because he did not
like Hartopp, could no longer be restrained. He begged them not to add
mendacity to open insolence. But the badger was in Mr. Hartopp's rooms,
sir. The Sergeant had kindly taken it up for them. That disposed of the
badger, and the temporary check brought King's temper to boiling-point.
They could hear his foot on the floor while Prout prepared his lumbering
inquiries. They had settled into their stride now. Their eyes ceased to
sparkle; their faces were blank; their hands hung beside them without a
twitch. They were learning, at the expense of a fellow-countryman, the
lesson of their race, which is to put away all emotion and entrap the
alien at the proper time.

So far good. King was importing himself more freely into the trial,
being vengeful where Prout was grieved. They knew the penalties of
trespassing? With a fine show of irresolution, Stalky admitted that
he had gathered some information vaguely bearing on this head, but he
thought -- The sentence was dragged out to the uttermost: Stalky did not
wish to play his trump with such an opponent. Mr. King desired no buts,
nor was he interested in Stalky's evasions. They, on the other hand,
might be interested in his poor views. Boys who crept -- who sneaked -- who
lurked -- out of bounds, even the generous bounds of the Natural
History Society, which they had falsely joined as a cloak for their
misdeeds -- their vices -- their villainies -- their immoralities
said Stalky to himself
Such boys, scabrous boys, moral lepers -- the current of his words was
carrying King off his feet -- evil-speakers, liars, slow-bellies -- yea,
incipient drunkards...

He was merely working up to a peroration, and the boys knew it; but
McTurk cut through the frothing sentence, the others echoing
It was their unquestioned right. Drunkenness meant expulsion after a
public flogging. They had been accused of it. The case was the Head's,
and the Head's alone
They had
heard that sentence once or twice before in their careers
said King, uneasily
said McTurk to his house-master, disregarding King. This at
once lifted the situation to its loftiest plane. Moreover, it meant no
work, for moral leprosy was strictly quarantined, and the Head never
executed judgment till twenty-four cold hours later
said King, with a
loving look at the canes under Foxy's arm
Ten minutes later the news was over the whole school. Stalky and Co.
had fallen at last -- fallen by drink. They had been drinking. They had
returned blind-drunk from a hut. They were even now lying hopelessly
intoxicated on the dormitory floor. A few bold spirits crept up to look,
and received boots about the head from the criminals
said Stalky,
after those hints were taken
Beetle quoted from a book of his reading
said McTurk
said the Sergeant
from behind a crowded tray. Their wars had ever been waged without
malice, and a suspicion floated in Foxy's mind that boys who allowed
themselves to be tracked so easily might, perhaps, hold something in
reserve. Foxy had served through the Mutiny, when early and accurate
information was worth much
said Stalky
Beetle replied, promptly
This from Stalky through a full mouth
quoth Beetle
croaked McTurk, in the very brogue of
Colonel Dabney
said
Beetle
said Stalky, without pity
said the Sergeant, sitting heavily upon a bed
Stalky resumed
said Beetle
The Sergeant was thinking -- hard
he said, earnestly
said Beetle, dancing
said Foxy
said McTurk
Stalky put his chin on his hands and regarded the victim
with deep delight
said McTurk
said the
Sergeant from the depths of his heart
McTurk went on
said Stalky
Stalky struck in
said Beetle
said the Sergeant, plaintively
McTurk concluded
said the Sergeant, gathering up the tea-things
To say that the Head was annoyed when the Sergeant appeared after dinner
with the day's crime-sheet would be putting it mildly
The Sergeant was evidently
troubled
said the Head
He and the Sergeant
had dealt with one another for some seven years; and the Head knew that
Mr. King's statements depended very largely on Mr. King's temper
The Head saw -- saw even to the uttermost farthing -- and his mouth twitched
a little under his mustache
said he when the three appeared under escort
Six apiece was their portion upon that word
the Head replaced the cane, and flung the written
charge into the waste-paper basket
said that amazing man
said Beetle
said McTurk
Whatever the nature of that interview, it did not improve either King's
or Prout's ruffled plumes, for, when they came out of the Head's house,
eyes noted that the one was red and blue with emotion as to his nose,
and that the other was sweating profusely. That sight compensated them
amply for the Imperial Jaw with which they were favored by the two. It
seems -- and who so astonished as they?-- that they had held back material
facts; were guilty both of _suppressio veri_ and _suggestio falsi_
(well-known gods against whom they often offended); further, that they
were malignant in their dispositions, untrustworthy in their characters,
pernicious and revolutionary in their influences, abandoned to the
devils of wilfulness, pride, and a most intolerable conceit. Ninthly,
and lastly, they were to have a care and to be very careful.

They were careful, as only boys can be when there is a hurt to be
inflicted. They waited through one suffocating week till Prout and
King were their royal selves again; waited till there was a
house-match -- their own house, too -- in which Prout was taking part;
waited, further, till he had his pads in the pavilion and stood ready to
go forth. King was scoring at the window, and the three sat on a bench
without.

Said Stalky to Beetle
said Beetle
McTurk yawned
That afternoon there was joy in Aves
The music-room on the top floor of Number Five was filled with the
"Aladdin" company at rehearsal. Dickson Quartus, commonly known as Dick
Four, was Aladdin, stage-manager, ballet-master, half the orchestra, and
largely librettist, for the "book" had been rewritten and filled
with local allusions. The pantomime was to be given next week, in the
down-stairs study occupied by Aladdin, Abanazar, and the Emperor of
China. The Slave of the Lamp, with the Princess Badroulbadour and the
Widow Twankay, owned Number Five study across the same landing, so
that the company could be easily assembled. The floor shook to the
stamp-and-go of the ballet, while Aladdin, in pink cotton tights, a blue
and tinsel jacket, and a plumed hat, banged alternately on the piano and
his banjo. He was the moving spirit of the game, as befitted a senior
who had passed his Army Preliminary and hoped to enter Sandhurst next
spring.

Aladdin came to his own at last, Abanazar lay poisoned on the floor, the
Widow Twankay danced her dance, and the company decided it would
said the Emperor, a tallish,
fair-headed boy with a ghost of a mustache, at which he pulled manfully
suggested Abanazar, smoothing his
baggy lilac pajamas. "Pussy" Abanazar never looked more than one-half
awake, but he owned a soft, slow smile which well suited the part of the
Wicked Uncle
said Aladdin
Stalky, The Slave of the Lamp, in black tights and doublet, a black silk
half-mask on his forehead, whistled lazily where he lay on the top of
the piano. It was a catchy music-hall tune.

Dick Four cocked his head critically, and squinted down a large red
nose
he said, strumming
said Dick Four
The Emperor pushed aside his pea-green sleeves of state, and followed
Dick Four on a heavy nickel plated banjo
said Abanazar
said Dick Four
said Beetle, who, in a gray skirt
and a wig of chestnut sausage-curls, set slantwise above a pair of
spectacles mended with an old boot-lace, represented the Widow Twankay.
He waved one leg in time to the hammered refrain, and the banjoes grew
louder
he sang, and Dick Four
repeated it.

"'Your Emperor is appeased.'" Tertius flung out his chest as he
delivered his line
said Dick Four
McTurk, in a violet silk skirt and a coquettish blue turban, slouched
forward as one thoroughly ashamed of himself. The Slave of the Lamp
climbed down from the piano, and dispassionately kicked him
he said
But there fell on the door the
knock of authority. It happened to be King, in gown and mortar-board,
enjoying a Saturday evening prowl before dinner
he snapped with a scowl
said Abanazar, as the only
member of the Sixth concerned. Dick Four stood firm in the confidence
born of well-fitting tights, but Beetle strove to efface himself behind
the piano. A gray princess-skirt borrowed from a day-boy's mother and a
spotted cotton bodice unsystematically padded with imposition-paper make
one ridiculous. And in other regards Beetle had a bad conscience
sneered King
the Slave of the
Lamp smiled politely
the Irishman scowled
Abanazar, the Emperor, and
Aladdin had more or less of characters, and King passed them over
thought Beetle, noting the flush on King's
cheek-bone
thought Beetle. He had launched many lampoons on
an appreciative public ever since he discovered that it was possible to
convey reproof in rhyme.

In sign of his unruffled calm, King proceeded to tear Beetle, whom he
called Gigadibs, slowly asunder. From his untied shoestrings to his
mended spectacles (the life of a poet at a big school is hard) he held
him up to the derision of his associates -- with the usual result. His
wild flowers of speech -- King had an unpleasant tongue --- restored him to
good humor at the last. He drew a lurid picture of Beetle's latter
end as a scurrilous pamphleteer dying in an attic, scattered a few
compliments over McTurk and Corkran, and, reminding Beetle that he must
come up for judgment when called upon, went to Common-room, where he
triumphed anew over his victims
he explained in a loud voice over his soup
said the school chaplain slowly
said a mathematical
master hotly
He blushed as the others laughed.

But in the music-room there were wrath and bad language. Only Stalky,
Slave of the Lamp, lay on the piano unmoved
he drawled
said Beetle, struggling out of the skirt
He disappeared down two flights of stairs, flushed a small pink and
white boy in a form-room next door to King's study, which, again,
was immediately below his own, and chased him up the corridor into a
form-room sacred to the revels of the Lower Third. Thence he came
back, greatly disordered, to find McTurk, Stalky, and the others of the
company, in his study enjoying an unlimited
coffee, cocoa, buns,
new bread hot and steaming, sardine, sausage, ham-and-tongue paste,
pilchards, three jams, and at least as many pounds of Devonshire cream
said he, throwing himself upon the banquet
It was within a month of term end, and blank
starvation had reigned in the studies for weeks
said Stalky, serenely
said Abanazar behind a slab of cream
and jam, as Beetle, reassured upon the safety of his Sunday trousers,
showed not even surprise, much less resentment. Indeed, it was McTurk
who grew angry, saying
said Abanazar
said Stalky
Rabbits-Eggs was the local carrier -- an outcrop of the early Devonian
formation. It was Stalky who had invented his unlovely name
said Beetle from behind a jar of
pilchards and a book
said McTurk
said Beetle, meekly, scooping out pilchards with a
spoon
McTurk adjusted Beetle's collar with
a savage tug
The book was a fat, brown-backed volume of the later Sixties, which King
had once thrown at Beetle's head that Beetle might see whence the
name Gigadibs came. Beetle had quietly annexed the book, and had
seen -- several things. The quarter-comprehended verses lived and ate with
him, as the bedropped pages showed. He removed himself from all that
world, drifting at large with wondrous Men and Women, till McTurk
hammered the pilchard spoon on his head and he snarled
said Stalky to the visitors, as one exhibiting strange
beasts
said McTurk
said Stalky, warningly, and Beetle closed the book,
in obedience to the law under which he and his companions had lived for
six checkered years.

The visitors looked on delighted. Number Five study had a reputation for
more variegated insanity than the rest of the school put together; and
so far as its code allowed friendship with outsiders it was polite and
open-hearted to its neighbors on the same landing
said Beetle
said McTurk, jerking his head toward the wall, where hung a
small wooden West-African war-drum, a gift to McTurk from a naval uncle
said Beetle, who loved
his flesh-pots
Mason
was the mathematical master who had testified in Common-room
said Abanazar
said Beetle, tragically
said McTurk
said Stalky
said Beetle
Stalky returned scornfully
said McTurk
The visitors gasped, but Stalky interpreted the parable with large
grins
said McTurk, blandly
said Beetle
said Dick Four
said Stalky
said Beetle
said Abanazar
said Beetle, pensively
said McTurk
said Stalky, extended at ease on the hearth-rug
Stalky curled his legs under him and addressed the
company
Here Stalky snapped
down the black silk domino and assumed the air of a judge
Stalky's reading did not include Browning or Ruskin
said McTurk
said Tertius
Down went McTurk's inky thumb over an imaginary arena full of bleeding
Kings
he cried to Beetle
began Beetle, doubtfully
Beetle opened the book on the table, ran his finger down a page, and
began at random
said Stalky
McTurk was reading over
Beetle's shoulder.

   "That simultaneously take snuff,
   For each to have pretext enough
   And kerchiefwise unfold his sash,
   Which -- softness' self -- is yet the stuff

(Gummy! What a sentence!)

   To hold fast where a steel chain snaps
   And leave the grand white neck no gash.

(Full stop
said Stalky
said McTurk
said Beetle, licking his lips
Then irrelevantly
said Dick Four, looking through the
window
said Beetle
said Stalky politely to the
visitors
said Stalky, and turned out the gas
The company retreated to their own neat and spacious study with
expectant souls
said Aladdin to the
Emperor of China
said the Emperor
said Abanazar,
who had just remembered he was a prefect
said Aladdin
Now that West-African war-drum had been made to signal across estuaries
and deltas. Number Five was forbidden to wake the engine within earshot
of the school. But a deep, devastating drone filled the passages as
McTurk and Beetle scientifically rubbed its top. Anon it changed to the
blare of trumpets -- of savage pursuing trumpets. Then, as McTurk slapped
one side, smooth with the blood of ancient sacrifice, the roar broke
into short coughing howls such as the wounded gorilla throws in his
native forest. These were followed by the wrath of King -- three steps
at a time, up the staircase, with a dry whir of the gown. Aladdin and
company, listening, squeaked with excitement as the door crashed open.
King stumbled into the darkness, and cursed those performers by the gods
of Balliol and quiet repose
said Aladdin, holding the study door on the
crack
he sang in a whisper as he clung to the door-knob,
dancing a noiseless war-dance.

King went down-stairs again, and Beetle and McTurk lit the gas to confer
with Stalky. But Stalky had vanished
said Beetle, collecting his books and
mathematical instrument case
said McTurk
mourned Beetle
said McTurk, hopefully
No sooner had the key turned in the door than the lid of the coal-box,
which was also the window-seat, lifted cautiously. It had been a tight
fit, even for the lithe Stalky, his head between his knees, and his
stomach under his right ear. From a drawer in the table he took a
well-worn catapult, a handful of buckshot, and a duplicate key of the
study; noiselessly he raised the window and kneeled by it, his face
turned to the road, the wind-sloped trees, the dark levels of the
Burrows, and the white line of breakers falling nine-deep along the
Pebbleridge. Far down the steep-banked Devonshire lane he heard the
husky hoot of the carrier's horn. There was a ghost of melody in it, as
it might have been the wind in a gin-bottle essaying to sing
Stalky smiled a tight-lipped smile, and at extreme range opened fire:
the old horse half wheeled in the shafts
hiccoughed Rabbits-Eggs. Another buckshot tore
through the rotten canvas tilt with a vicious zipp
murmured Stalky, as Rabbits-Eggs swore into the patient
night, protesting that he saw the "dommed colleger" who was assaulting
him
King was saying in a high head voice to Beetle, whom he had
kept to play with before Manders minor, well knowing that it hurts
a Fifth-form boy to be held up to a fag's derision
said Beetle, with a sheepish grin on his lips and murder in
his heart. Hope had nearly left him, but he clung to a well-established
faith that never was Stalky so dangerous as when he was invisible
Beetle pricked up his ears, for Rabbits-Eggs was swearing savagely
on the road, and some of the language entered at the upper sash. King
believed in ventilation. He strode to the window gowned and majestic,
very visible in the gaslight
roared Rabbits-Eggs, now that he had found a
visible foe -- another shot from the darkness above
Beetle's heart leaped up within him. Somewhere, somehow, he knew, Stalky
moved behind these manifestations. There were hope and the prospect
of revenge. He would embody the suggestion about the nose in deathless
verse. King threw up the window, and sternly rebuked Rabbits-Eggs. But
the carrier was beyond fear or fawning. He had descended from the cart,
and was stooping by the roadside.

It all fell swiftly as a dream. Manders minor raised his hand to his
head with a cry, as a jagged flint cannoned on to some rich tree-calf
bindings in the book-shelf. Another quoited along the writing-table.
Beetle made zealous feint to stop it, and in that endeavor overturned
a student's lamp, which dripped, _via_ King's papers and some choice
books, greasily on to a Persian rug. There was much broken glass on the
window-seat; the china basket -- McTurk's aversion -- cracked to flinders,
had dropped her musk plant and its earth over the red rep cushions;
Manders minor was bleeding profusely from a cut on the cheek-bone; and
King, using strange words, every one of which Beetle treasured, ran
forth to find the school-sergeant, that Rabbits-Eggs might be instantly
cast into jail
said Beetle, with a false, feigned sympathy
and he held the blind head
skilfully over the table, and the papers on the table, as he guided the
howling Manders to the door.

Then did Beetle, alone with the wreckage, return good for evil. How, in
that office, a complete set of "Gibbon" was scarred all along the back
as by a flint; how so much black and copying ink came to be mingled with
Manders's gore on the table-cloth; why the big gum-bottle, unstoppered,
had rolled semicircularly across the floor; and in what manner the white
china door-knob grew to be painted with yet more of Manders's young
blood, were matters which Beetle did not explain when the rabid King
returned to find him standing politely over the reeking hearth-rug
he said, with the air of Casabianca, and
King consigned him to the outer darkness.

But it was to a boot-cupboard under the staircase on the ground floor
that he hastened, to loose the mirth that was destroying him. He had
not drawn breath for a first whoop of triumph when two hands choked him
dumb
hissed Stalky, sitting on his head
But Beetle staggered into the form-room next door, and delegated his
duty to the yet unenlightened McTurk, with an hysterical precis of the
campaign thus far. So it was McTurk, of the wooden visage, who brought
the clothes from the dormitory while Beetle panted on a form. Then the
three buried themselves in Number Five lavatory, turned on all the taps,
filled the place with steam, and dropped weeping into the baths, where
they pieced out the war
gasped Stalky
shrieked McTurk, one trembling finger pointed at
Beetle
Beetle howled
said Stalky with a yell, disappearing under water
Then Stalky leaped out, all pink as he was, and shook Beetle into some
sort of coherence; but his tale prostrated them afresh
said Stalky. They were all
chanting together
This from McTurk
shouted Beetle, his spectacles gleaming
through a sea of lather
But dressing was a slow process, because McTurk was obliged to dance
when he heard that the musk basket was broken, and, moreover, Beetle
retailed all King's language with emendations and purple insets
said Stalky, collapsing in a helpless welter of half-hitched
trousers
The Lower Third had set a guard upon their form-room for the space of a
full hour, which to a boy is a lifetime. Now they were busy with their
Saturday evening businesses -- cooking sparrows over the gas with
rusty nibs; brewing unholy drinks in gallipots; skinning moles with
pocket-knives; attending to paper trays full of silkworms, or discussing
the iniquities of their elders with a freedom, fluency, and point that
would have amazed their parents. The blow fell without warning. Stalky
upset a form crowded with small boys among their own cooking utensils,
McTurk raided the untidy lockers as a terrier digs at a rabbit-hole,
while Beetle poured ink upon such heads as he could not appeal to with
a Smith's Classical Dictionary. Three brisk minutes accounted for many
silkworms, pet larvae, French exercises, school caps, half-prepared
bones and skulls, and a dozen pots of home-made sloe jam. It was a great
wreckage, and the form-room looked as though three conflicting tempests
had smitten it
said Stalky, drawing breath outside the door (amid groans of
and so
forth
said
Beetle
said McTurk absently, as
they strolled along the corridor
said McTurk
said Beetle
So they were all stricken helpless for five minutes.

They repaired at last to Abanazar's study, and were received reverently
said Stalky, quick to realize new atmospheres
said Abanazar
said Stalky, with a relieved
heart, for he loved not to tell lies
said Stalky, continuing the conversation in a loud and
cheerful voice, as they descended the stairs
said Beetle, as they passed King's open door
hissed the Emperor of China
said Beetle, watching the shadow of the house-master on the
wall
said Stalky
King was behind them, and every well-weighed word went up the staircase
like an arrow
said Beetle
suggested Stalky
The other study hurried forward. They did not wish to be dragged into
stage asides of this nature. So it was left to McTurk to sum up the
situation beneath the guns of the enemy
said the Irishman, hanging on the banister
The black gown tore past like a thunder-storm, and in its wake, three
abreast, arms linked, the Aladdin company rolled up the big corridor to
prayers, singing with most innocent intention
It was a maiden aunt of Stalky who sent him both books, with the
inscription
it was
McTurk who ordered their hypothecation; and it was Beetle, returned from
Bideford, who flung them on the window-sill of Number Five study with
news that Bastable would advance but ninepence on the two
being almost as great a drug as
Whereupon Stalky rose up to grapple with him, but McTurk sat on Stalky's
head, calling him a "pure-minded boy" till peace was declared. As they
were grievously in arrears with a Latin prose, as it was a blazing July
afternoon, and as they ought to have been at a house cricket-match,
they began to renew their acquaintance, intimate and unholy, with the
volumes
said McTurk
Stalky rapped the
gilded book
Mr. Prout could move very silently if he pleased, though that is
no merit in a boy's eyes. He had flung open the study-door without
knocking -- another sin -- and looked at them suspiciously
said. McTurk wearily. One
house-match is just like another, and their "ploy" of that week happened
to be rabbit-shooting with saloon-pistols
said Beetle
They had heard that phrase till they were wearied. The "honor of the
house" was Prout's weak point, and they knew well how to flick him on
the raw
said Stalky, with
maddening politeness. But Prout knew better than that. He had tried the
experiment once at a big match, when the three, self-isolated, stood
to attention for half an hour in full view of all the visitors, to whom
fags, subsidized for that end, pointed them out as victims of Prout's
tyranny. And Prout was a sensitive man.

In the infinitely petty confederacies of the Common-room, King and
Macrea, fellow house-masters, had borne it in upon him that by games,
and games alone, was salvation wrought. Boys neglected were boys lost.
They must be disciplined. Left to himself, Prout would have made
a sympathetic house-master; but he was never so left, and with the
devilish insight of youth, the boys knew to whom they were indebted for
his zeal
And he lurched out with some hazy impression that he
had sown good seed on poor ground
said Beetle
said Stalky
demanded McTurk, throwing "Eric" into a corner
said Beetle
McTurk said
wrathfully
Turkey seized his straw and led the way.

They reached the sun-blistered pavilion over against the gray
Pebbleridge just before roll-call, and, asking no questions, gathered
from King's voice and manner that his house was on the road to victory
said he, turning to show the light of his countenance. "Here
we have the ornaments of the Casual House at last. You consider cricket
beneath you, I believe "-- the crowd, flannelled, sniggered
said Stalky
said Beetle hotly.

King scowled
and he
addressed himself to the call-over board
said McTurk
angrily, as they strolled towards the big, open sea-baths
A knot of King's boys, also bound for the baths, hailed them, beseeching
them to wash -- for the honor of their house
said Stalky
The boys came nearer, shouting an opprobrious word. At last they moved
to windward, ostentatiously holding their noses
said Beetle
When they returned from the baths, damp-headed, languid, at peace with
the world, Beetle's forecast came only too true. They were met in the
corridor by a fag -- a common, Lower-Second fag -- who at arm's length
handed them a carefully wrapped piece of soap
said Stalky, checking immediate attack
said McTurk
Beetle wagged his head
sorrowfully. He had worn many jests threadbare on his own account.

In a few days it became an established legend of the school that Prout's
house did not wash and were therefore noisome. Mr. King was pleased to
smile succulently in form when one of his boys drew aside from Beetle
with certain gestures
Naturally, he was enlightened by half the form
Prout's house was furious because Macrea's and Hartopp's houses joined
King's to insult them. They called a house-meeting after dinner -- an
excited and angry meeting of all save the prefects, whose dignity,
though they sympathized, did not allow them to attend. They read
ungrammatical resolutions, and made speeches beginning
and ending with
precisely as houses have done since time and schools began.

Number Five study attended, with its usual air of bland patronage. At
last McTurk, of the lanthorn jaws, delivered himself
said the composer meekly
said
Beetle
But Stalky puffed out his cheeks and squinted down his nose in the style
of Panurge, and all he said was
was the instant retort of the democracy,
and they went out amid execrations
said McTurk
Three saloon-pistols, with a supply of bulleted breech-caps, were stored
in Stalky's trunk, and this trunk was in their dormitory, and
their dormitory was a three-bed attic one, opening out of a ten-bed
establishment, which, in turn, communicated with the great range of
dormitories that ran practically from one end of the College to the
other. Macrea's house lay next to Prout's, King's next to Macrea's, and
Hartopp's beyond that again. Carefully locked doors divided house from
house, but each house, in its internal arrangements -- the College had
originally been a terrace of twelve large houses -- was a replica of the
next; one straight roof covering all.

They found Stalky's bed drawn out from the wall to the left of the
dormer window, and the latter end of Richards protruding from a
two-foot-square cupboard in the wall
Richards's voice was hollow and
muffled
said McTurk
Richards backed puffing
said Stalky, diving into the aperture
To the left Stalky wriggled, and saw a long line of lead pipe
disappearing up a triangular tunnel, whose roof was the rafters and
boarding of the college roof, whose floor was sharp-edged joists, and
whose side was the rough studding of the lath and plaster wall under the
dormer
The water squirted through the tap just inside the cupboard, and, having
filled the basins, the grateful Richards waddled away.

The boys sat round-eyed on their beds considering the possibilities of
this trove. Two floors below them they could hear the hum of the angry
house; for nothing is so still as a dormitory in mid-afternoon of a
midsummer term
McTurk examined the little door
They crawled in, Stalky leading, drew the door behind them, and on all
fours embarked on a dark and dirty road full of plaster, odd shavings,
and all the raffle that builders leave in the waste room of a house.
The passage was perhaps three feet wide, and, except for the struggling
light round the edges of the cupboards (there was one to each dormer),
almost pitchy dark
said Stalky, his eye at the crack of the third
cupboard
They heard his nails scraping, on plaster
said Beetle
whispered McTurk
Stalky thrust an arm to the elbow between the joists
They crawled out, brushed one another clean, slid the saloon-pistols
down a trouser-leg, and hurried forth to a deep and solitary Devonshire
lane in whose flanks a boy might sometimes slay a young rabbit. They
threw themselves down under the rank elder bushes, and began to think
aloud
said Stalky at last, sighting at a distant sparrow
Beetle snorted, choked, and gurgled. He had been silent since
they left the dormitory
He felt in his pockets
said McTurk,
handing over the coppers. His tone was serious, for though Stalky often,
and McTurk occasionally, manoeuvred on his own account, Beetle had never
been known to do so in all the history of the confederacy
said Stalky, with a general's suspicion of his
aides
said McTurk
Twenty minutes later a boy with a straw hat at the back of his head, and
his hands in his pockets, was staring at workmen as they moved about
a half-finished cottage. He produced some ferocious tobacco, and
was passed from the forecourt into the interior, where he asked many
questions
said Turkey, as they burst into
the study, to find Beetle deep in Viollet-le-Duc and some drawings
said Stalky, moving to the
attack
with an attempt to imitate Stalky's war-voice
Beetle gurgled from the floor
Stalky dropped unreservedly on Beetle's chest
He produced a rude sketch, sufficient to enlighten the allies. There is
no part of the modern school curriculum that deals with architecture,
and none of them had yet reflected whether floors and ceilings were
hollow or solid. Outside his own immediate interests the boy is as
ignorant as the savage he so admires; but he has also the savage's
resource
said Stalky
Beetle's eyes turned to Stalky
handling the diagrams
said Stalky interrogatively. Then his face grew luminous with
delight
He leaped at the
Irishman
caroled McTurk, and they fell into
each other's arms dancing
said Beetle
said Orrin, stiffly, as they fell into their places along the
walls of the gymnasium
Stalky's mind was elsewhere
and he tore down the
corridor.

Gamboling like kids at play, with bounds and sidestarts, with caperings
and curvetings, they led the almost bursting Beetle to the rabbit-lane,
and from under a pile of stones drew forth the new-slain corpse of a
cat. Then did Beetle see the inner meaning of what had gone before, and
lifted up his voice in thanksgiving for that the world held warriors so
wise as Stalky and McTurk
said Stalky
said McTurk
said Stalky
McTurk rolled down the bank at his own
jest
said Beetle
McTurk gasped as he regained his
place
the exquisite humor of it brought them sliding down
together in a tangle
Stalky panted, his knees
in the ditch and his face in the long grass
Between them they did some grisly work with a penknife; between them
(ask not who buttoned her to his bosom) they took up the corpse and
hastened back, Stalky arranging their plan of action at the full trot.

The afternoon sun, lying in broad patches on the bed-rugs, saw three
boys and an umbrella disappear into a dormitory wall. In five minutes
they emerged, brushed themselves all over, washed their hands, combed
their hair, and descended
said McTurk suddenly
said McTurk
rang down the corridor
said Stalky, a hand on either boy's shoulder
They went to their study in more or less of silence. There they began to
laugh -- laugh as only boys can. They laughed with their foreheads on the
tables, or on the floor; laughed at length, curled over the backs of
chairs or clinging to a book-shelf; laughed themselves limp.

And in the middle of it Orrin entered on behalf of the house
He laid a folded sheet of paper on
the table and retired with an awful front
said Beetle. Stalky jerked it open with a
precautionary sniff
said Beetle
said McTurk
The situation was beyond speech, but not laughter. There was some
attempt that night to demonstrate against the three in their dormitory;
so they came forth
Beetle began suavely as he loosened his braces
cried one
said Stalky
But or ever the dinner-bell rang the next day Prout's were sadly aware
of their error. King received stray members of that house with an
exaggerated attitude of fear. Did they purpose to cause him to be
dismissed from the College by unanimous resolution? What were their
views concerning the government of the school, that he might hasten
to give effect to them? he would not offend them for worlds; but
he feared -- he sadly feared -- that his own house, who did not pass
resolutions (but washed), might somewhat deride.

King was a happy man, and his house, basking in the favor of his smile,
made that afternoon a long penance to the misled Prouts. And Prout
himself, with a dull and lowering visage, tried to think out the rights
and wrongs of it all, only plunging deeper into bewilderment. Why should
his house be called "Stinkers"? Truly, it was a small thing, but he had
been trained to believe that straws show which way the wind blows, and
that there is no smoke without fire. He approached King in Common-room
with a sense of injustice, but King was pleased to be full of airy
persiflage that tide, and brilliantly danced dialectical rings round
Prout
said Stalky at bedtime, making pilgrimage through the dormitories
before the prefects came by
Here the house grew angry, and in many voices pointed out how this
blunder would never have come to pass if Number Five study had helped
them from the first
growled Orrin of the resolution
said Stalky
and, the
enemy's flank deftly turned, Stalky hopped into bed.

That night was the first of sorrow among the jubilant King's. By some
accident of under-floor drafts the cat did not vex the dormitory beneath
which she lay, but the next one to the right; stealing on the air rather
as a pale-blue sensation than as any poignant offense. But the mere
adumbration of an odor is enough for the sensitive nose and clean tongue
of youth. Decency demands that we draw several carbolized sheets over
what the dormitory said to Mr. King and what Mr. King replied. He was
genuinely proud of his house and fastidious in all that concerned their
well-being. He came; he sniffed; he said things. Next morning a boy in
that dormitory confided to his bosom friend, a fag of Macrea's, that
there was trouble in their midst which King would fain keep secret.

But Macrea's boy had also a bosom friend in Prout's, a shock-headed
fag of malignant disposition, who, when he had wormed out the secret,
told -- told it in a high-pitched treble that rang along the corridor like
a bat's squeak
Prout's juniors hurled themselves into
the war, and through the interval between first and second lesson some
fifty twelve-year-olds were embroiled on the gravel outside King's
windows to a tune whose _leit-motif_ was the word
said Stalky. They were in their study
collecting books for second lesson -- Latin, with King
asked McTurk, with a wrinkled brow
said Beetle
They were outside the form-room door now. It was within five minutes of
the bell, and King might arrive at any moment.

Turkey elbowed into a cohort of scuffling fags, cut out Thornton tertius
(he that had been Harland's bosom friend), and bade him tell his tale.

It was a simple one, interrupted by tears. Many of King's house had
already battered him for libel
McTurk cried
Stalky shouted
Turkey's long arm closed on a hurried and anxious ornament of the Lower
Second
cried Beetle
Stalky punted the small boy into Beetle's arms
King generally came to the house-door for a
minute or two as the bell rang
That was a merry lesson, but, in his haste to scarify Beetle, King
clean neglected to give him an imposition, and since at the same time
he supplied him with many priceless adjectives for later use, Beetle was
well content, and applied himself most seriously throughout third
lesson (algebra with little Hartopp) to composing a poem entitled
After dinner King took his house to bathe in the sea off the
Pebbleridge. It was an old promise; but he wished he could have evaded
it, for all Prout's lined up by the Fives Court and cheered with
intention. In his absence not less than half the school invaded the
infected dormitory to draw their own conclusions. The cat had gained in
the last twelve hours, but a battlefield of the fifth day could not have
been so flamboyant as the spies reported
said Stalky
said Beetle
said McTurk, as they hastened to meet the house coming up from the sea.
King had deserted it, so speech was unfettered. Round its front played
a crowd of skirmishers -- all houses mixed -- flying, reforming, shrieking
insults. On its tortured flanks marched the Hoplites, seniors hurling
jests one after another -- simple and primitive jests of the Stone Age.
To these the three added themselves, dispassionately, with an air of
aloofness, almost sadly
said Stalky
No answer
said McTurk. The victims
desired nothing better
The
house hurried in to the tune of
sung by loving
schoolmates, and barricaded themselves in their form-room. Straightway
Stalky chalked a large cross, with
on the
door, and left King to find it.

The wind shifted that night and wafted a carrion-reek into Macrea's
dormitories; so that boys in nightgowns pounded on the locked door
between the houses, entreating King's to wash. Number Five study went to
second lesson with not more than half a pound of camphor apiece in their
clothing; and King, too wary to ask for explanations, gibbered a while
and hurled them forth. So Beetle finished yet another poem at peace in
the study
said Stalky
said McTurk
said Stalky
said McTurk
said Stalky
In Common-room at lunch King discoursed acridly to Prout of boys with
prurient minds, who perverted their few and baleful talents to sap
discipline and corrupt their equals, to deal in foul imagery and destroy
reverence
Prout had endured much, for King always took his temper to meals
the school chaplain put in
The Common-room looked at one another out of the corners of their eyes,
and Prout blushed
he said
said King
said Macrea, deserting his usual ally
said little
Hartopp
Mr. King explained that as he had made it the one rule of his life never
to interfere with another man's house, so he expected not to be too
patently interfered with. They might be interested to learn -- here the
chaplain heaved a weary sigh -- that he had taken all steps that, in his
poor judgment, would meet the needs of the case. Nay, further, he had
himself expended, with no thought of reimbursement, sums, the amount of
which he would not specify, on disinfectants. This he had done because
he knew by bitter -- by most bitter -- experience that the management of the
college was slack, dilatory, and inefficient. He might even add, almost
as slack as the administration of certain houses which now thought
fit to sit in judgment on his actions. With a short summary of his
scholastic career, and a precis of his qualifications, including his
degrees, he withdrew, slamming the door
said the chaplain
Prout dug viciously with his fork into
the table-cloth
said little Hartopp
The chaplain rose
said little Hartopp
The dingy den off the Common-room was never used for anything except
gowns. Its windows were ground glass; one could not see out of it, but
one could hear almost every word on the gravel outside. A light and wary
footstep came up from Number Five
in a subdued voice -- Rattray's study fronted that way
McTurk discreetly left
the end of the sentence open
said Rattray unguardedly
McTurk climbed on the railings, where he held
forth like the never-wearied rook
There was the sound of a golf-ball spurting
up gravel
whispered Macrea, for this was Mr. Prout's pet
phrase
Here the listening Prout sputtered: Beetle, in a strained voice, had
chosen a favorite gambit of King's
you must imagine this discourse punctuated with golf-balls, but old
Rattray was ever a bad shot
said Prout
said little Hartopp
grunted McTurk
Stalky cantered up, his cap over one eye
said Rattray, stung from his
dignity by this last
said Beetle critically
said Prout to little Hartopp
murmured little Hartopp, as though answering a
question no one had asked
Stalky changed from a pecking, fluttering
voice to tragic earnestness
said Prout
in an undertone. Beetle had spied King sailing down the
corridor
the house-master
began
the
listeners with one accord choked
said Beetle
said Rattray, coming out of
the study
said little Hartopp
He passed on.


Next day Richards, who had been a carpenter in the Navy, and to whom odd
jobs were confided, was ordered to take up a dormitory floor; for Mr.
King held that something must have died there
The boys did not collect on the stairs, but most of them waited outside
King's. Richards had been bound to cry the news from the attic window,
and, if possible, to exhibit the corpse
Richards's face showed purple at the window.
He had been in the chamber of death and on his knees for some time
cried McTurk
They cheered lustily
yelled the juniors
This was the Natural History Society
were some of the cries that followed.

Again Richards appeared
he checked himself suddenly
The school roared
said Stalky in a well-chosen pause
a King's boy cried furiously
And it seemed good to them so to do.


Down in the basement, where the gas flickers and the boots stand in
racks, Richards, amid his blacking-brushes, held forth to Oke of the
Common-room, Gumbly of the dining-halls, and fair Lena of the laundry
said Lena
said Lena, the affianced of Gumbly
said Oke
Richards spat on a fresh boot and fell to his work, chuckling
They had dropped into the chaplain's study for a Saturday night
smoke --- all four house-masters -- and the three briars and the one cigar
reeking in amity proved the Rev. John Gillett's good generalship. Since
the discovery of the cat, King had been too ready to see affront
where none was meant, and the Reverend John, buffer-state and general
confidant, had worked for a week to bring about a good understanding.
He was fat, clean-shaven, except for a big mustache, of an imperturbable
good temper, and, those who loved him least said, a guileful Jesuit.
He smiled benignantly upon his handiwork -- four sorely tried men talking
without very much malice
he said, when the conversation turned that way
said King
The others laughed. King did not care to be reminded of his career as a
poacher
said King
The Reverend John went on
said King
said Prout heavily
said the Reverend John
said Prout
said King
said
little Hartopp
said Macrea
said Hartopp, unabashed
Prout began
Prout insisted
said Macrea
said King, irrelevantly
said little Hartopp
said Prout
King jerked himself upright
said the chaplain
Prout interjected
said Prout
said little Hartopp
said the Reverend John
said Prout, his voice growing
deeper and deeper
little Hartopp returned
said the
Reverend John
Prout persisted
said Prout, looking
round for support
said Macrea
said
Prout
The Reverend John looked round remorsefully
said the
Reverend John
But by the yellow Tiber
   Was tumult and affright.

Out of the blue sky (they were still rejoicing over the cat war) Mr.
Prout had dropped into Number Five, read them a lecture on the enormity
of cribbing, and bidden them return to the form-rooms on Monday. They
had raged, solo and chorus, all through the peaceful Sabbath, for their
sin was more or less the daily practice of all the studies
said Stalky at last
He looked
regretfully round the cozy study which McTurk, their leader in matters
of Art, had decorated with a dado, a stencil, and cretonne hangings
said McTurk
quoted Beetle
said Stalky, with
an ensnaring grin
said Beetle
McTurk also smiled
The house received them on their fall with the mixture of jest and
sympathy always extended to boys turned out of their study. The known
aloofness of the three made them more interesting
Stalky selected a locker and flung in
his books
said Orrin
said Stalky
They wrapped themselves lovingly about the boy, thrust him to the opened
window, and drew down the sash to the nape of his neck. With an equal
swiftness they tied his thumbs together behind his back with a piece of
twine, and then, because he kicked furiously, removed his shoes. There
Mr. Prout happened to find him a few minutes later, guillotined and
helpless, surrounded by a convulsed crowd who would not assist.

Stalky, in an upper form-room, had gathered himself allies against
vengeance. Orrin presently tore up at the head of a boarding party, and
the form-room grew one fog of dust through which boys wrestled, stamped,
shouted, and yelled. A desk was carried away in the tumult, a knot of
warriors reeled into and split a door-panel, a window was broken, and
a gas-jet fell. Under cover of the confusion the three escaped to the
corridor, whence they called in and sent up passers-by to the fray
The juniors hurried out like bees aswarm, asking no questions, clattered
up the staircase, and added themselves to the embroilment
said Stalky, rearranging his
collar
So they sat on Mr. King's railings till prep
quoth Stalky, as they strolled up to prep. with the ignoble
herd
said Beetle suddenly.

Stalky could not see Prout behind him, but returned the lead without a
quaver
said McTurk
Stalky came to a full stop and made as
to work it out on his fingers
The game was developing itself
almost automatically
shouted Beetle
Stalky groaned
said McTurk very loudly indeed, and started as Prout came upon
them
said he
said Stalky
said Beetle. It is difficult to improvise a
going concern on the spur of the minute
said McTurk, with a glance of cold
scorn at Beetle. In the hopelessly involved finances of the study there
was just that sum to which both McTurk and Beetle laid claim, as their
share in the pledging of Stalky's second-best Sunday trousers. But
Stalky had maintained for two terms that the money was his "commission"
 for effecting the pawn; and had, of course, spent it on a study
Stalky had said nothing, and continued so to do
He felt in his pockets, and (oh joy!) produced
a florin and fourpence
Little they cared! Two and fourpence in a lump is worth six weekly
sixpences any hungry day of the week
said Beetle
said Stalky
said McTurk
Mechanically Beetle had handed over the money to Stalky as treasurer of
the study. The custom of years is not lightly broken. In return for
the document, Prout expounded to Beetle the enormity of money-lending,
which, like everything except compulsory cricket, corrupted houses and
destroyed good feeling among boys, made youth cold and calculating,
and opened the door to all evil. Finally, did Beetle know of any
other cases? If so, it was his duty as proof of repentance to let his
house-master know. No names need be mentioned.

Beetle did not know -- at least, he was not quite sure, sir. How could he
give evidence against his friends? The house might, of course -- here he
feigned an anguished delicacy -- be full of it. He was not in a position
to say. He had not met with any open competition in his trade; but if
Mr. Prout considered it was a matter that affected the honor of
the house (Mr. Prout did consider it precisely that), perhaps the
house-prefects would be better...

He spun it out till half-way through prep
said the amateur Shylock, returning to the form-room and dropping
at Stalky's side
This to the prep.-master
After prayers, on the road to the dormitories, Harrison and Craye,
senior house-prefects, zealous in their office, waylaid them with great
anger
said McTurk
began Harrison
said Beetle, sitting on a boot-basket
said McTurk
Stalky curled gracefully
round the stair-rail
said Harrison
said Craye
Stalky winked cheerfully at the others
said McTurk, addressing the
gas
said Craye hotly
said Beetle
Stalky's voice rose
said
McTurk, with dignity
said Stalky
said Beetle,
boldly inventing as he saw the bewilderment in the faces of the
enemy
They clattered upstairs, injured virtue on every inch of their backs
said Harrison, amazedly, to
Craye
And Mr. Prout called the good boys into his study anew, and succeeded
in sinking both his and their innocent minds ten fathoms deeper in
blindfolded bedazement. He spoke of steps and measures, of tone and
loyalty in the house and to the house, and urged them to take up the
matter tactfully.

So they demanded of Beetle whether he had any connection with any other
establishment. Beetle promptly went to his house-master, and wished
to know by what right Harrison and Craye had reopened a matter already
settled between him and his house-master. In injured innocence no boy
excelled Beetle.

Then it occurred to Prout that he might have been unfair to the culprit,
who had not striven to deny or palliate his offense. He sent for
Harrison and Craye, reprehending them very gently for the tone they had
adopted to a repentant sinner, and when they returned to their study,
they used the language of despair. They then made headlong inquisition
through the house, driving the fags to the edge of hysterics, and
unearthing, with tremendous pomp and parade, the natural and inevitable
system of small loans that prevails among small boys
They waded through hours of this kind of thing, but found no usury,
or anything approaching to Beetle's gorgeous scale of interest. The
seniors -- for the school had no tradition of deference to prefects
outside compulsory games -- told them succinctly to go about their
business. They would not give evidence on any terms. Harrison was one
idiot, and Craye was another; but the greatest of all, they said, was
their house-master.

When a house is thoroughly upset, however good its conscience, it breaks
into knots and coteries -- small gatherings in the twilight, box-room
committees, and groups in the corridor. And when from group to group,
with an immense affectation of secrecy, three wicked boys steal, crying
when there is no need of caution, and whispering
on the heels of trumpery confidences that instant invented, a very fine
air of plot and intrigue can be woven round such a house.

At the end of a few days, it dawned on Prout that he moved in an
atmosphere of perpetual ambush. Mysteries hedged him on all sides,
warnings ran before his heavy feet, and countersigns were muttered
behind his attentive back. McTurk and Stalky invented many absurd and
idle phrases -- catch-words that swept through the house as fire through
stubble. It was a rare jest, and the only practical outcome of the Usury
Commission, that one boy should say to a friend, with awful gravity
The other
would reply
The effect on
a house-master of humane conscience and good intent may be imagined.
Again, a man who has sincerely devoted himself to gaining the esteem of
his charges does not like to hear himself described, even at a distance,
as "Popularity Prout" by a dark and scowling Celt with a fluent tongue.
A rumor that stories -- unusual stories -- are told in the form-rooms,
between the lights, by a boy who does not command his confidence,
agitates such a man; and even elaborate and tender politeness -- for the
courtesy wise-grown men offer to a bewildered child was the courtesy
that Stalky wrapped round Prout -- restores not his peace of mind
said Prout
to Harrison and Craye
He never imputed anything; but, on the other hand, he never did anything
else, and, with the best intentions in the world, he had reduced the
house-prefects to a state as nearly bordering on nervous irritation
as healthy boys can know. Worst of all, they began at times to wonder
whether Stalky &amp; Co. had not some truth in their often-repeated
assertions that Prout was a gloomy ass
Oh, Prout he is a nobleman, a nobleman, a nobleman!
       Our Heffy is a nobleman --
       He does an awful lot,
   Because his popularity
   Oh, pop-u-pop-u-larity --
   His giddy popularity
       Would suffer did he not!

The study door stood ajar; and the song, borne by twenty clear voices,
came faint from a form-room. The fags rather liked the tune; the words
were Beetle's
said Prout with a lop-sided
smile
said Harrison angrily
said Craye
said Prout sympathetically
said Craye, plunging into the business boldly
Emphatically Harrison and Craye were of that opinion. As Harrison said
to Craye, afterwards
McTurk ambled round the corner, with a roving eye on
all possible horizons
said McTurk
said Harrison, hoping for instant reward
cried Craye
McTurk had adopted a ghastly solemnity that sat well on his
long, lean face
Harrison's voice was
almost tearful.

McTurk turned away as though to hide his emotions
He hunted up Stalky and Beetle in a box-room
was Stalky's comment
Just after tea that day, Mr. Prout sent for them to say that if they
chose to ruin their future by neglecting their work, it was entirely
their own affair. He wished them, however, to understand that their
presence in the form-rooms could not be tolerated one hour longer.
He personally did not care to think of the time he must spend in
eliminating the traces of their evil influences. How far Beetle had
pandered to the baser side of youthful imagination he would ascertain
later; and Beetle might be sure that if Mr. Prout came across any
soul-corrupting consequences
said Beetle, genuinely bewildered this
time; and McTurk quietly kicked him on the ankle for being "fetched"
 by Prout. Beetle, the house-master continued, knew very well what was
intended. Evil and brief had been their careers under his eye; and as
one standing _in loco parentis_ to their yet uncontaminated associates,
he was bound to take his precautions. The return of the study key closed
the sermon
said Beetle on
the stairs
said
McTurk
said Stalky
said Prout most firmly in Common-room
purred little Hartopp
said the Reverend John
said Prout
murmured the Reverend John
And bit by bit he told his tale, beginning with Beetle's usury, and
ending with the house-prefects' appeal
said King, with
twitching lips
said Prout
said Hartopp
Mason, the mathematical master, stuttered, a fierce joy
on his face
Little Hartopp's voice drowned Mason's ere
Prout caught the import of the sentence
said Prout
said the chaplain
said Prout bitterly.

But it was the Reverend John, with a smiling countenance, who went to
the devil just after Number Five had cleared away a very pleasant little
brew (it cost them two and fourpence) and was settling down to prep
said Stalky, thrusting forward the best
chair
said the Reverend John
said McTurk
said Beetle
said Beetle wearily
said Beetle.

The Padre nodded
said McTurk
purred
Stalky
the Reverend John replied
said Stalky
said Beetle
said McTurk
said Stalky
said the Reverend John
McTurk replied
said
Beetle
Stalky looked at the others
said Stalky, with significance
Number Five laughed aloud
said McTurk
A double knock fell on the door
said the voice
of Foxy, the school sergeant
said the Reverend John
said Stalky
said
the Reverend John disinterestedly
said Beetle
Once more they stood in the presence of the Head -- Belial, Mammon, and
Lucifer. But they had to deal with a man more subtle than them all. Mr.
Prout had talked to him, heavily and sadly, for half an hour; and the
Head had seen all that was hidden from the house-master
he said pensively
said Stalky cheerfully; for a week's gating in the summer
term is serious
It was a fair, sustained, equable stroke, with a little draw to it,
but what they felt most was his unfairness in stopping to talk between
executions. Thus
said McTurk, wriggling his shoulder-blades all down the
corridor
said Stalky
said Beetle
Stalky confessed
They proceeded on these lines for some ten minutes. The wales were very
red and very level. There was not a penny to choose between any of them
for thoroughness, efficiency, and a certain clarity of outline that
stamps the work of the artist
Mr. Prout was at the head of the
lavatory stairs, attracted by the noise of splashing
said McTurk, putting
on his shirt
said Beetle
said McTurk, and vouchsafed no further answer.

It was Stalky who laughed till he had to hold on by the edge of a basin
said Beetle
There was no disguising the defeat. The victory was to Prout, but they
grudged it not. If he had broken the rules of the game by calling in the
Head, they had had a good run for their money.

The Reverend John sought the earliest opportunity of talking things
over. Members of a bachelor Common-room, of a school where masters'
studies are designedly dotted among studies and form-rooms, can, if they
choose, see a great deal of their charges. Number Five had spent some
cautious years in testing the Reverend John. He was emphatically a
gentleman. He knocked at a study door before entering; he comported
himself as a visitor and not a strayed lictor; he never prosed, and he
never carried over into official life the confidences of idle hours.
Prout was ever an unmitigated nuisance; King came solely as an avenger
of blood; even little Hartopp, talking natural history, seldom forgot
his office; but the Reverend John was a guest desired and beloved by
Number Five.

Behold him, then, in their only arm-chair, a bent briar between his
teeth, chin down in three folds on his clerical collar, and blowing like
an amiable whale, while Number Five discoursed of life as it appeared to
them, and specially of that last interview with the Head -- in the matter
of usury
he said, twinkling and shaking all over
said
Stalky
said Beetle
said McTurk. Number Five
held the very strongest views on clerical head-masters, and were ever
ready to meet their pastor in argument
said the Reverend John
gently
Stalky replied
said Beetle
The Reverend John was smiling
Stalky replied
said Beetle with a grunt
said Stalky
said McTurk with the kettle
Stalky warmed to the work
McTurk interrupted
said Beetle
The
Reverend John considered his hosts critically
Stalky's eye roved contentedly to the
window
There was no doubting the sincerity of the voices. The Reverend John
flushed a little with pleasure and refilled his briar
said Beetle
triumphantly
said Beetle, wagging his head
said the Reverend John absently. It was some years
before Beetle perceived that this was rather a tribute to innocence than
observation. The long, light, blindless dormitories, devoid of inner
doors, were crossed at all hours of the night by masters visiting one
another; for bachelors sit up later than married folk. Beetle had never
dreamed that there might be a purpose in this steady policing
the Reverend John resumed
said Beetle,
looking serenely over the gulf between eleven and sixteen
said Stalky
said McTurk soothingly
said
Beetle
Stalky was watching the chaplain's face
Then, explosively
said Beetle
said McTurk under his breath
said Beetle
said the Reverend John
said Beetle
said McTurk
said Beetle
said McTurk a little bitterly
said McTurk
whispered Stalky
a purely secular light flickered in the
chaplain's eye
Number Five stared at each other
said Beetle
said McTurk firmly
said Stalky, bringing up both heels with a crash on
the table
said McTurk
said Stalky
They drew the house form-rooms, accounting for every junior and senior
against whom they had suspicions; investigated, at Beetle's suggestion,
the lavatories and box-rooms, but without result. Everybody seemed to be
present save Clewer
said Stalky, pausing outside a study door
A thin piping mixed with tears came muffled through the panels
A book crashed on something soft, and squeals arose
said Beetle
McTurk listened
said Stalky, with his
war-grin
The two were precocious hairy youths between seventeen and eighteen,
sent to the school in despair by parents who hoped that six months'
steady cram might, perhaps, jockey them into Sandhurst. Nominally they
were in Mr. Prout's house; actually they were under the Head's eye;
and since he was very careful never to promote strange new boys to
prefectships, they considered they had a grievance against the school.
Sefton had spent three months with a London crammer, and the tale of his
adventures there lost nothing in the telling. Campbell, who had a fine
taste in clothes and a fluent vocabulary, followed his lead in looking
down loftily on the rest of the world. This was only their second term,
and the school, used to what it profanely called
had
treated them with rather galling reserve. But their whiskers -- Sefton
owned a real razor -- and their mustaches were beyond question impressive
McTurk asked
said Stalky, shaking his head
Beetle turned into Lower Number Nine
form-room, next door to the study
The lights of war flickered over Stalky's face
He drove his hands into his pockets and stared out of window at the sea,
whistling between his teeth. Then a foot tapped the floor; one shoulder
lifted; he wheeled, and began the short quick double-shuffle -- the
war-dance of Stalky in meditation. Thrice he crossed the empty
form-room, with compressed lips and expanded nostrils, swaying to the
quick-step. Then he halted before the dumb Beetle and softly knuckled
his head, Beetle bowing to the strokes. McTurk nursed one knee and
rocked to and fro. They could hear Clewer howling as though his heart
would break
Stalky said at last
said Beetle uneasily. It was not his first season as a
sacrifice
Beetle was trussed for
cock-fighting; but, in addition to the transverse stump between elbow
and knee, His knees were bound with a box-rope. In this posture, at a
push from Stalky he rolled over sideways, covering himself with dust
said Beetle
Beetle's protest was,
in tone, a work of art
roared McTurk. They made a hideous noise among them, and the
bait allured their quarry
Sefton and Campbell entered to find
Beetle on his side, his head against the fender, weeping copiously,
while McTurk prodded him in the back with his toes
Stalky explained
Sefton promptly kicked both boys, and
his face lighted
Then McTurk turned on Stalky and called him very evil names
shrieked Stalky
said Campbell
said Stalky
moaned Beetle, as Stalky sat on his shoulder
said Campbell
said
Sefton joyously, and the two were flung down on the study floor. Stalky
rolled them behind an arm-chair
said he
Sefton replied
He wriggled into position by Campbell's side. Swiftly and scientifically
the stumps were thrust through the natural crooks, and the wrists
tied with well-stretched box-ropes to an accompaniment of insults from
McTurk, bound, betrayed, and voluble behind the chair. Stalky set away
Campbell and Sefton, and strode over to his allies, locking the door on
the way
said he in a changed voice
Sefton began. Beetle's false tears had ceased;
McTurk, smiling, was on his feet. Together they bound the knees and
ankles of the enemy even more straitly.

Stalky took the arm-chair and contemplated the scene with his blandest
smile. A man trussed for cock-fighting is, perhaps, the most helpless
thing in the world
He lay back and laughed till he could no more. The victims took in the
situation but slowly
thundered Sefton from the floor
said McTurk
The question was repeated with
maddening iteration by each in turn. They knew their work
was the answer at last
Even then they could not realize the game
said Beetle reflectively
McTurk echoed. At the twentieth
repetition -- no boy can stand the torture of one unvarying query, which
is the essence of bullying -- came confession
and knuckled they were, according to ancient
experience. Head-knuckling is no trifle
Fairburn of the old
days could not have done better
This time the question was answered
sooner, and Brush-drill was dealt out for the space of five minutes by
Stalky's watch. They could not even writhe in their bonds. No brush is
employed in Brush-drill
from Campbell, rolling in agony
The torture of the Key -- which has no key at all -- hurts excessively. They
endured several minutes of it, and their language necessitated the gag
They were corkscrewed, and the torture of the Corkscrew -- this has
nothing to do with corkscrews -- is keener than the torture of the Key.

The method and silence of the attacks was breaking their nerves. Between
each new torture came the pitiless, dazing rain of questions, and when
they did not answer to the point, Isabella-colored handkerchiefs were
thrust into their mouths
cried
Campbell
ferociously
It needs three boys and two boxing-gloves to rock a boy to sleep. Again
the operation has nothing to do with its name. Sefton was "rocked" till
his eyes set in his head and he gasped and crowed for breath, sick and
dizzy
said Campbell, appalled, from his corner, and turned white
said Stalky
In silence Campbell was "rocked" sixty-four times
he gasped
The answer is unprintable; but it brought not the faintest flush to
Stalky's downy cheek
And an Ag Ag was he made, forthwith. The hard-bought experience of
nearly eighteen years was at his disposal, but he did not seem to
appreciate it
Then came the tears -- scalding tears; appeals for mercy and abject
promises of peace. Let them cease the tortures and Campbell would never
lift hand against them. The questions began again -- to an accompaniment
of small persuasions
He wept anew; his nerves being raw
This and much more as Sefton was punted
across the carpet by skilful knees
McTurk laughed into the nickel-plated shaving-cup, and settled Sefton's
head between Stalky's vise-like knees
said Beetle
He lit a vesta, but checked his hand
Beetle waved the brush
The thin-haired first mustache of youth fluffed off in flame to the
lather-line in the centre of the lip, and Stalky rubbed away the
burnt stumpage with his thumb. It was not a very gentle shave, but it
abundantly accomplished its purpose
Between match and
razor this, too, was removed
But there were no words. Sefton gazed at the lop-sided wreck in horror
and despair. Two fat tears rolled down his cheek
said McTurk
said Beetle
said Stalky
chanted McTurk, waving a stump
said Campbell from his corner
Sefton cried like a twelve-year-old with pain, shame, wounded vanity,
and utter helplessness
said McTurk
said Campbell
said Stalky
said Beetle, cross-legged on the
floor, dropping a stump from time to time across Sefton's instep
said Beetle
said Campbell, who was a humorist in a way
In his excitement Beetle had used the stump unreflectingly, and Sefton
was now shouting for mercy
he cried, wheeling where he sat
Sefton fell over sideways, tear-tracks
furrowing the dried lather. Crack came the cricket-stump on the curved
latter-end of him
said Beetle
said McTurk, watching the strap at work
yelled Sefton, for strong arguments
were coercing him
The stump rose and fell steadily throughout
this catechism
said Stalky
said Beetle
cried Sefton
grunted McTurk
said Stalky.

From the floor Sefton made unconditional surrender, more abjectly even
than Campbell. He would never touch any one again. He would go softly all
the days of his life
said Stalky
said Campbell
They dropped into chairs luxuriously. Campbell and Sefton looked at each
other, and, neither taking comfort from that view, struck up
said Stalky, as the miserable wailing ended
He freed them from their bonds, but for several minutes they could not
rise. Campbell was first on his feet, smiling uneasily. Sefton staggered
to the table, buried his head in his arms, and shook with sobs. There
was no shadow of fight in either -- only amazement, distress, and shame
said Campbell
Stalky shook his head. He meant to escort the half-shaved one to the
meal.

McTurk yawned in his chair and Beetle mopped his face. They were all
dripping with excitement and exertion
said Stalky severely
said McTurk
said Stalky
said Campbell
said Stalky
The head did not lift. Sefton was deeply asleep
said McTurk, as a snore mixed with a sob
said Beetle
Stalky lowered his voice
There should have been a war-dance, but that all three were so utterly
tired that they almost went to sleep above the tea-cups in their study,
and slept till prep
said the Head, handing a closely written eight pages to the
Reverend John
The chaplain read with pursed lips
said
the Head, absently
the chaplain concluded
A lift of the Head's eye-brow
the Head answered.

The Augurs winked.


A few days later the Reverend John called on Number Five
said they
he
replied
said Beetle
Stalky
interrupted
said McTurk
said Beetle
said McTurk
A downward puff of smoke
said McTurk
Easter term was but a month old when Stettson major, a day-boy,
contracted diphtheria, and the Head was very angry. He decreed a new and
narrower set of bounds -- the infection had been traced to an out-lying
farmhouse -- urged the prefects severely to lick all trespassers, and
promised extra attentions from his own hand. There were no words bad
enough for Stettson major, quarantined at his mother's house, who had
lowered the school-average of health. This he said in the gymnasium
after prayers. Then he wrote some two hundred letters to as many anxious
parents and guardians, and bade the school carry on. The trouble did not
spread, but, one night, a dog-cart drove to the Head's door, and in the
morning the Head had gone, leaving all things in charge of Mr. King,
senior house-master. The Head often ran up to town, where the school
devoutly believed he bribed officials for early proofs of the Army
Examination papers; but this absence was unusually prolonged
said Stalky to the allies one wet afternoon in the
study
Beetle entered joyously into the libel
McTurk quoted, pensively
boring holes in the mantel-piece with a hot poker
Stalky held up a long Indian
cheroot
Beetle sniffed the cheroot critically
They saw a group of boys by the notice-board in the corridor; little
Foxy, the school sergeant, among them
said Stalky
There was a broad band of crape round Foxy's arm
said Foxy, jerking his head towards the
notices, where a newspaper cutting was thumb-tacked between call-over
lists
quoth Stalky, uncovering as he read
said the sergeant briefly
The boys went out into the wet, walking swiftly
said Stalky, as they
splashed down a lane
Like many other leaders, Stalky did not dwell on past defeats. They
pushed through a dripping hedge, landed among water-logged clods, and
sat down on a rust-coated harrow. The cheroot burned with sputterings
of saltpetre. They smoked it gingerly, each passing to the other between
closed forefinger and thumb
said Stalky, shivering
through set teeth. To prove his words he immediately laid all before
them, and they followed his example
moaned Beetle, sweating clammy drops
McTurk handed up his
contribution and lay hopelessly on the cold iron
But Beetle was in no case to answer. Limp and empty, they sprawled
across the harrow, the rust marking their ulsters in red squares and the
abandoned cheroot-end reeking under their very cold noses. Then -- they
had heard nothing -- the Head himself stood before them -- the Head who
should have been in town bribing examiners -- the Head fantastically
attired in old tweeds and a deer-stalker
he said, fingering his mustache
He disappeared over the hedge as lightly as he had come. There was a
murmur of women's voices in the deep lane
said McTurk as the voices died away
gasped Beetle
Stalky made no answer -- not even a soft one. They went to College and
received that for which they had been sent. King enjoyed himself most
thoroughly, for by virtue of their seniority the boys were exempt from
his hand, save under special order. Luckily, he was no expert in the
gentle art
said Beetle
irreverently, quoting from some Shakespeare play that they were cramming
that term. They regained their study and settled down to the imposition
Stalky spoke in silky and propitiating
tones
McTurk began with cold venom
Beetle grunted severely
said Beetle
McTurk almost howled as the
agony of the situation overcame him
said McTurk
Stalky growled
said McTurk
Stalky had thrown his Virgil at them.

The Head returned next day without explanation, to find the lines
waiting for him and the school a little relaxed under Mr. King's
viceroyalty. Mr. King had been talking at and round and over the boys'
heads, in a lofty and promiscuous style, of public-school spirit and the
traditions of ancient seats; for he always improved an occasion. Beyond
waking in two hundred and fifty young hearts a lively hatred of all
other foundations, he accomplished little -- so little, indeed, that when,
two days after the Head's return, he chanced to come across Stalky &amp;
Co., gated but ever resourceful, playing marbles in the corridor, he
said that he was not surprised -- not in the least surprised. This was
what he had expected from persons of their _morale_
said Beetle, his knees white with chalk and dust. Then he received
two hundred lines for insolence, besides an order to go to the nearest
prefect for judgment and slaughter.

This is what happened behind the closed doors of Flint's study, and
Flint was then Head of the Games
was the answer
Beetle grinned wickedly
The sense of this oracle Beetle conveyed, all unsweetened, to King, who
hastened to interview Flint.

Now Flint had been seven and a half years at the College, counting six
months with a London crammer, from whose roof he had returned, homesick,
to the Head for the final Army polish. There were four or five other
seniors who had gone through much the same mill, not to mention
boys, rejected by other establishments on account of a certain
overwhelmingness, whom the Head had wrought into very fair shape. It was
not a Sixth to be handled without gloves, as King found
He said much,
and Flint listened politely
Much more was then delivered, both sides a little losing their temper.

After tea, at an informal gathering of prefects in his study, Flint
related the adventure
said Perowne
said Flint
said Venner, a red-headed boy of
nineteen
It might have been because he felt the air was a little thunderous that
the Head took his after-dinner cheroot to Flint's study; but he so
often began an evening in a prefect's room that nobody suspected when he
drifted in pensively, after the knocks that etiquette demanded
A cock of one wise eye-brow
He dropped into Flint's big
half-couch and puffed for a while in silence
The young faces grew serious. The phrase meant that certain of their
number would be withdrawn from all further games for extra-tuition. It
might also mean future success at Sandhurst; but it was present ruin for
the First Fifteen
said Perowne. The Old
Boys' match was the event of the Easter term
He smiled sweetly
said Flint
said Dawson
Perowne asked
The
Head knew how to read. When he had finished the quarter-column of close
type everybody thanked him politely
said Perowne
said the Head
said Flint, when the door shut
Perowne returned, hastily
The case was represented so urgently to the school that even Stalky
and McTurk, who affected to despise football, played one Big-Side game
seriously. They were forthwith promoted ere their ardor had time to
cool, and the dignity of their Caps demanded that they should keep some
show of virtue. The match-team was worked at least four days out of
seven, and the school saw hope ahead.

With the last week of the term the Old Boys began to arrive, and their
welcome was nicely proportioned to their worth. Gentlemen cadets from
Sandhurst and Woolwich, who had only left a year ago, but who carried
enormous side, were greeted with a cheerful
from those who had shared their studies. Militia subalterns had
more consideration, but it was understood they were not precisely of the
true metal. Recreants who, failing for the Army, had gone into business
or banks were received for old sake's sake, but in no way made too much
of. But when the real subalterns, officers and gentlemen full-blown -- who
had been to the ends of the earth and back again and so carried no
side -- came on the scene strolling about with the Head, the school
divided right and left in admiring silence. And when one laid hands on
Flint, even upon the Head of the Games crying
visible haloes encircled Flint. They would walk to and fro in
the corridor with the little red school-sergeant, telling news of old
regiments; they would burst into form-rooms sniffing the well-remembered
smells of ink and whitewash; they would find nephews and cousins in the
lower forms and present them with enormous wealth; or they would invade
the gymnasium and make Foxy show off the new stock on the bars.

Chiefly, though, they talked with the Head, who was father-confessor
and agent-general to them all; for what they shouted in their unthinking
youth, they proved in their thoughtless manhood -- to wit, that the
Prooshan Bates was
Young blood who had stumbled into an
entanglement with a pastry-cook's daughter at Plymouth; experience who
had come into a small legacy but mistrusted lawyers; ambition halting
at cross-roads, anxious to take the one that would lead him farthest;
extravagance pursued by the money-lender; arrogance in the thick of a
regimental row -- each carried his trouble to the Head; and Chiron showed
him, in language quite unfit for little boys, a quiet and safe way
round, out, or under. So they overflowed his house, smoked his cigars,
and drank his health as they had drunk it all the earth over when two or
three of the old school had foregathered
said the Head
said a Lieutenant of Engineers
with a D.S.O. to his credit
The Head
nodded
This was a Squadron Commander of Bengal
Lancers, home on leave
Bates Sahib "-- a Gunner flung a heavy arm round the Head's
neck
a Submarine Miner interrupted
That opened the flood-gates of fresh memories, and they all told tales
out of school.

When Crandall minor that was -- Lieutenant R. Crandall of an ordinary
Indian regiment -- arrived from Exeter on the morning of the match, he
was cheered along the whole front of the College, for the prefects
had repeated the sense of that which the Head had read them in Flint's
study. When Prout's house understood that he would claim his Old Boy's
right to a bed for one night, Beetle ran into King's house next door
and executed a public "gloat" up and down the enemy's big form-room,
departing in a haze of ink-pots
said Stalky,
playing substitute for the Old Boys, magnificent in black jersey, white
knickers, and black stockings
said Beetle, enviously
The technique of that match belongs to a bygone age. Scrimmages were
tight and enduring; hacking was direct and to the purpose; and around
the scrimmage stood the school, crying
Toward the end everybody lost all sense of decency, and mothers of
day-boys too close to the touch-line heard language not included in the
bills. No one was actually carried off the field, but both sides felt
happier when time was called, and Beetle helped Stalky and McTurk into
their overcoats. The two had met in the many-legged heart of things,
and, as Stalky said, had
As they swaggered
woodenly behind the teams -- substitutes do not rank as equals of hairy
men -- they passed a pony-carriage near the wall, and a husky voice cried
It was Stettson major, white-checked
and hollow-eyed, who had fought his way to the ground under escort of an
impatient coachman
said Stalky, checking
said the boy, giggling
Here the coachman, being under orders, whipped up and nearly ran over
the three
said Beetle
McTurk's knee in the small of his back cannoned him
into Stalky, who punted him back
said Stalky
said Beetle
said McTurk; and he delivered a wild Irish yell that
made the team turn round
said Stalky, dancing with impatience
There was no need of guile. The school was too busy cheering the drawn
match. It hung round the lavatories regardless of muddy boots while the
team washed. It cheered Crandall minor whenever it caught sight of him,
and it cheered more wildly than ever after prayers, because the Old Boys
in evening dress, openly twirling their mustaches, attended, and
instead of standing with the masters, ranged themselves along the
wall immediately before the prefects; and the Head called them over,
too -- majors, minors, and tertiuses, after their old names
he said to his guests after dinner
The setting of that apotheosis was a ten-bed attic dormitory,
communicating through doorless openings with three others. The gas
flickered over the raw pine washstands. There was an incessant
whistling of drafts, and outside the naked windows the sea beat on the
Pebbleridge
said Crandall, yawning
He caressed a battered shin
It needed a few minutes to put them at their ease; and, in some way they
could not understand, they were more easy when Crandall turned round and
said his prayers -- a ceremony he had neglected for some years
said the prefect of the dormitory
A nightgowned twelve-year-old, who had been waiting to show off, leaped
from his bed to the bracket and back again, by way of a washstand
said Crandall, chuckling
The darkness had filled with whispers, the sound of trailing rugs, bare
feet on bare boards, protests, giggles, and threats such as
etc
the prefect began, his tone showing his sense of
Stalky's insolence
ran the keen whispers. "Tell us
said the voices
So Crandall turned on his pillow and spoke to the generation he could
not see
squeaked a small fag
The unseen crowds withdrew. His own dormitory rustled into bed and lay
silent for a while
Stalky's voice was tuned to a wholly foreign
reverence
said Crandall, reflectively
The sentence ended in a grunt, for Stalky had
leaped out of bed and with McTurk was sitting on the head of Beetle, who
would have sprung the mine there and then.

Next day, which was the last of the term and given up to a few wholly
unimportant examinations, began with wrath and war. Mr. King had
discovered that nearly all his house -- it lay, as you know, next door but
one to Prout's in the long range of buildings -- had unlocked the doors
between the dormitories and had gone in to listen to a story told by
Crandall. He went to the Head, clamorous, injured, appealing; for
he never approved of allowing so-called young men of the world to
contaminate the morals of boyhood. Very good, said the Head, he would
attend to it
said Crandall guiltily
the Head answered, with the ghost of a wink
said Crandall, thinking of
his own wild youth
The school, frolicking among packed trunks, whooping down the corridor,
and "gloating" in form-rooms, received the news with amazement and rage.
No school in the world did prep. on the last night of the term. This
thing was monstrous, tyrannical, subversive of law, religion, and
morality. They would go into the form-rooms, and they would take their
degraded holiday task with them, but -- here they smiled and speculated
what manner of man the Common-room would send up against them. The lot
fell on Mason, credulous and enthusiastic, who loved youth. No other
master was anxious to take that
for the school lacked the
steadying influence of tradition; and men accustomed to the ordered
routine of ancient foundations found it occasionally insubordinate. The
four long form-rooms, in which all below the rank of study-boys worked,
received him with thunders of applause. Ere he had coughed twice they
favored him with a metrical summary of the marriage laws of Great
Britain, as recorded by the High Priest of the Israelites and commented
on by the leader of the host. The lower forms reminded him that it was
the last day, and that therefore he must
When he
dashed off to rebuke them, the Lower Fourth and Upper Third began with
one accord to be sick, loudly and realistically. Mr. Mason tried, of all
vain things under heaven, to argue with them, and a bold soul at a
back desk bade him
As one who prided himself upon the perfection of his English
this cut Mason to the quick, and while he was trying to discover the
offender, the Upper and Lower Second, three form-rooms away, turned out
the gas and threw ink-pots. It was a pleasant and stimulating
The study-boys and prefects heard the echoes of it far off, and the
Common-room at dessert smiled.

Stalky waited, watch in hand, till half-past eight
said he
He allowed no time for Beetle to be dramatic or McTurk to drawl. They
poured into study after study, told their tale, and went again so soon
as they saw they were understood, waiting for no comment; while the
noise of that unholy
grew and deepened. By the door of Flint's
study they met Mason flying towards the corridor
They broke into Number Twelve form-room
abreast and panting
That call stilled the tumult for a
minute, and Stalky, leaping to a desk, shouted
his voice
cracked
McTurk and Beetle, jumping from desk to desk, drove the news home among
the junior forms. There was a pause, and then, Mason behind him, the
Head entered. It was in the established order of things that no boy
should speak or move under his eye. He expected the hush of awe. He was
received with cheers -- steady, ceaseless cheering. Being a wise man, he
went away, and the forms were silent and a little frightened
said Stalky
He rocketed out with a yell,
to find Flint and the prefects lifting the roof off the corridor.

When the Head of a limited liability company, paying four per cent., is
cheered on his saintly way to prayers, not only by four form-rooms of
boys waiting punishment, but by his trusted prefects, he can either
ask for an explanation or go his road with dignity, while the senior
house-master glares like an excited cat and points out to a white and
trembling mathematical master that certain methods -- not his, thank
God --- usually produce certain results. Out of delicacy the Old Boys
did not attend that call-over; and it was to the school drawn up in the
gymnasium that the Head spoke icily
Crash -- crash -- crash -- came the triple cheer that disproved it, and the
Head glowered under the gas
Stalky whispered
The school filed out in silence, but gathered in groups by the gymnasium
door waiting what might befall
said the Head
said Flint desperately
When this news was made public, the school, lost in wonder and
admiration, gasped at the Head as he went to his house. Here was a man
to be reverenced. On the rare occasions when he caned he did it
very scientifically, and the execution of a hundred boys would be
epic -- immense
said Crandall, as the Head
slipped off his gown with a grunt in his smoking-room
said the Head, and reflectively
said the Engineer
said the Squadron Commander, looking round for contradictions
said the Gunner
said Crandall
said all the guests.


The Upper School were caned one after the other, their overcoats over
their arms, the brakes waiting in the road below to take them to the
station, their journey-money on the table. The Head began with Stalky,
McTurk, and Beetle. He dealt faithfully by them
They shook hands
said Stalky
said Crandall, speaking for the Old
Boys
It was very well so long as the cheering was confined to the corridor,
but when it spread to the gymnasium, when the boys awaiting their
turn cheered, the Head gave it up in despair, and the remnant flung
themselves upon him to shake hands. Then they seriously devoted
themselves to cheering till the brakes were hustled off the premises in
dumb-show
said Stalky on the box-seat, as
they swung into the narrow Northam street
It was winter and bitter cold of mornings. Consequently Stalky and
Beetle -- McTurk being of the offensive type that makes ornate toilet
under all circumstances -- drowsed till the last moment before turning out
to call-over in the gas-lit gymnasium. It followed that they were often
late; and since every unpunctuality earned them a black mark, and since
three black marks a week meant defaulters' drill, equally it followed
that they spent hours under the Sergeant's hand. Foxy drilled the
defaulters with all the pomp of his old parade-ground
his introduction never varied
said he, dressing the line
Twenty-five sluggards, all old offenders,
filed into the gymnasium
The dumb-bells rose and fell, clashed and were returned as one. The boys
were experts at the weary game
They were formed into fours, marched, wheeled, and countermarched, the
spell of ordered motion strong on them. As Foxy said, they had been at
it a long time.

The gymnasium door opened, revealing McTurk in charge of an old
gentleman.

The Sergeant, leading a wheel, did not see
he murmured
cried the visitor authoritatively
stammered Foxy, saying nothing of first
causes
he chirruped
He sat down, breathing frostily in the chill air
whispered Stalky uneasily; and his discomfort was not
lightened by a murmur from the rear rank that the old gentleman was
General Collinson, a member of the College Board of Council
said Foxy
hissed Swayne major
said the visitor
He drew an unhappy breath
The echo of
his own voice restored his confidence.

The wheel was faced about, flung back, broken into fours, and restored
to line without a falter. The official hour of punishment was long
passed, but no one thought of that. They were backing up Stalky -- Stalky
in deadly fear lest his voice should crack
was the visitor's comment
said the Sergeant
said McTurk, speaking for the first time,
with a twinkle in his deep-set eyes
said McTurk
cried Foxy, fearing an explosion in the ranks
The General pursued his own line of
thought
said McTurk
it was the depth
of winter; but grown people, especially those who have lived long in
foreign parts, make these little errors, and McTurk did not correct
him
demanded Stalky, on
McTurk's return to the study
McTurk exhibited a blessed whole sovereign
said Stalky, annexing it, for he was treasurer
said Beetle
said Beetle
They overtook Foxy, speeding down to retail the adventure to Keyte, who
in his time had been Troop Sergeant-Major in a cavalry regiment, and
now, war-worn veteran, was local postmaster and confectioner
said Stalky, with meaning
said Beetle
They raided Keyte's very much at their own sweet will, for the old man,
who knew them well, was deep in talk with Foxy
Stalky called at last over the counter
cried McTurk
He stared abstractedly, pushed the
silver over, and melted away into the darkness of the back room
said Beetle
said Stalky
The Head's face, inscrutable as ever, was bent over a pile of letters
he said at last to the Reverend John Gillett
The Reverend John smiled
Foxy wrestled with a
turbulent crowd in the gymnasium
said a voice
cried Stalky
Beetle touched his spectacles
said Hogan
The Sergeant threw a chest
said Ansell of Macrea's, shouldering through the mob
the Sergeant replied
promptly
said Perowne
said Ansell
said
Hogan, not foreseeing that three years later he should die in the
Burmese sun-light outside Minhla Fort
McTurk asked
with a villainous sneer
Blushing deeply -- they had been too shy to apply before -- the youngsters
sidled towards the Sergeant
said the
Sergeant disgustedly
McTurk read the papers of those years and could be
trusted for general information, which he used as he used his
Yet he did not know that Wake minor would be a bimbashi of the Egyptian
Army ere his thirtieth year.

Hogan, Swayne, Stalky, Perowne, and Ansell were deep in consultation by
the vaulting-horse, Stalky as usual laying down the law. The Sergeant
watched them uneasily, knowing that many waited on their lead
said McTurk, in a pained tone, to Beetle
Nothing loath, Beetle pinioned two more fags -- each no taller than a
carbine
said McTurk
Here Beetle joined in. They had found the poem in an old volume of
and it seemed to cover the situation
Foxy's
eye was still on the council by the horse. Carter, White, and Tyrrell,
all boys of influence, had joined it. The rest fingered the rifles
irresolutely
cried Stalky
said Foxy
Half a dozen of the earnest-minded rushed at them, and they had just
time to escape into the corridor
Beetle asked, resettling his collar
They strolled up carelessly towards
the honse-master -- a most meek couple
said King with a start of feigned surprise
said McTurk
sighed Beetle
said McTurk, cheerily
King wheeled on the last speaker
cooed McTurk, when they were out of
earshot
Beetle was at this noble task when Stalky returned all
hot from his first drill
began McTurk
said Stalky, and leaped on him at that word
Stalky asked in a pause of the scuffle
said McTurk
said Beetle, scornfully
said Stalky, with dark
significance.

They did not know what that meant till, a few days later, they proposed
to watch the corps at drill. They found the gymnasium door locked and a
fag on guard
said McTurk, stooping
said the sentry
said McTurk
said Beetle. They never doubted for a moment
who had devised that scheme
said Beetle,
listening to the crash and rattle of grounded arms within
McTurk looked at Beetle. The two shook their heads and turned away
said Beetle after a long pause
It troubled many more than King, but the members of the corps were muter
than oysters. Foxy, being bound by no vow, carried his woes to Keyte
asked the ex-Troop Sergeant-Major
The Sergeant spoke fretfully
said Keyte
One does not refuse a warrior of Sobraon, or deny the only pastry-cook
within bounds. So Keyte came, by invitation, leaning upon a stick,
tremulous with old age, to sit in a corner and watch
he whispered between
evolutions
At the "break-off" the ranks stood fast. Perowne fell out, faced them,
and, refreshing his memory by glimpses at a red-bound, metal-clasped
book, drilled them for ten minutes. (This is that Perowne who was shot
in Equatorial Africa by his own men.) Ansell followed him, and Hogan
followed Ansell. All three were implicitly obeyed. Then Stalky laid
aside his Snider, and, drawing a long breath, favored the company with a
blast of withering invective
cried Foxy
said Keyte, wiping his
rheumy eyes
Foxy was not far wrong in his
guess
and Stalky tongue-lashed the
victim for three minutes, in gross and in detail
He returned to his normal tone
was the answer
Stalky resumed his place in the ranks
chuckled the attentive Keyte.
Ansell, too, had been blessed with relatives in the service, and slowly,
in a lazy drawl -- his style was more reflective than Stalky's -- descended
the abysmal depths of personality
he shouted triumphantly
Stalky was a rich red, and his Snider shook visibly
he said, struggling for composure
said the slow-moving Hogan, as they returned arms
to the rack
said Foxy, hopelessly, to Keyte
Indeed it was time that the corps made some concession to the curiosity
of the school. Thrice had the guard been maltreated and thrice had the
corps dealt out martial law to the offender. The school raged. What was
the use, they asked, of a cadet-corps which none might see? Mr. King
congratulated them on their invisible defenders, and they could not
parry his thrusts. Foxy was growing sullen and restive. A few of the
corps expressed openly doubts as to the wisdom of their course; and the
question of uniforms loomed on the near horizon. If these were issued,
they would be forced to wear them.

But, as so often happens in this life, the matter was suddenly settled
from without.

The Head had duly informed the Council that their recommendation had
been acted upon, and that, so far as he could learn, the boys were
drilling. He said nothing of the terms on which they drilled. Naturally,
General Collinson was delighted and told his friends. One of his friends
rejoiced in a friend, a Member of Parliament -- a zealous, an intelligent,
and, above all, a patriotic person, anxious to do the most good in the
shortest possible time. But we cannot answer, alas! for the friends of
our friends. If Collinson's friend had introduced him to the General,
the latter would have taken his measure and saved much. But the friend
merely spoke of his friend; and since no two people in the world see eye
to eye, the picture conveyed to Collinson was inaccurate. Moreover, the
man was an M.P., an impeccable Conservative, and the General had the
English soldier's lurking respect for any member of the Court of Last
Appeal. He was going down into the West country, to spread light in
somebody's benighted constituency. Wouldn't it be a good idea if, armed
with the General's recommendation, he, taking the admirable and newly
established cadet-corps for his text, spoke a few words
said the General,
suspiciously
The island was then entering on five years of Mr.
Gladstone's rule; and the General did not like what he had seen of it.
He would certainly write to the Head, for it was beyond question that
the boys of to-day made the men of to-morrow. That, if he might say so,
was uncommonly well put.

In reply, the Head stated that he should be delighted to welcome Mr.
Raymond Martin, M.P., of whom he had heard so much; to put him up for
the night, and to allow him to address the school on any subject that
he conceived would interest them. If Mr. Martin had not yet faced an
audience of this particular class of British youth, the Head had no
doubt that he would find it an interesting experience
he confided to the
Reverend John
the chaplain replied
The Head's eyes twinkled
demanded Beetle, when
he read the notice of the lecture in the corridor
said McTurk over his
shoulder, quoting the Shakespeare artiste of last term
said McTurk
There was no nervousness, but a brisk and cheery affability about Mr.
Raymond Martin, M.P., as he drove up, watched by many eyes, to the
Head's house
was McTurk's comment
Beetle explained. After tea they joined
the rush for seats, secured a private and invisible corner, and began
to criticise. Every gas-jet was lit. On the little dais at the far end
stood the Head's official desk, whence Mr. Martin would discourse, and a
ring of chairs for the masters.

Entered then Foxy, with official port, and leaned something like a
cloth rolled round a stick against the desk. No one in authority was yet
present, so the school applauded, crying
and so forth, till
the entry of the Head and the masters ended all demonstrations
Mr. Martin,
in evening dress, was undeniably throaty -- a tall, generously designed,
pink-and-white man. Still, Beetle need not have been coarse
McTurk leaned back and sniffed contemptuously.

In a few colorless words, the Head introduced the speaker and sat
down amid applause. When Mr. Martin took the applause to himself, they
naturally applauded more than ever. It was some time before he could
begin. He had no knowledge of the school -- its tradition or heritage. He
did not know that the last census showed that eighty per cent. of the
boys had been born abroad -- in camp, cantonment, or upon the high seas;
or that seventy-five per cent. were sons of officers in one or other of
the services -- Willoughbys, Paulets, De Castros, Maynes, Randalls, after
their kind -- looking to follow their fathers' profession. The Head might
have told him this, and much more; but, after an hour-long dinner in his
company, the Head decided to say nothing whatever. Mr. Raymond Martin
seemed to know so much already.

He plunged into his speech with a long-drawn, rasping
that, though they were not conscious of it, set every young nerve ajar.
He supposed they knew -- hey?-- what he had come down for? It was not often
that he had an opportunity to talk to boys. He supposed that boys were
very much the same kind of persons -- some people thought them rather
funny persons -- as they had been in his youth
said McTurk, with conviction
But they must remember that they would not always be boys. They would
grow up into men, because the boys of to-day made the men of to-morrow,
and upon the men of to-morrow the fair fame of their glorious native
land depended
Stalky drew a long breath through his nose
said McTurk
And so they ought to think of the duties and responsibilities of the
life that was opening before them. Life was not all -- he enumerated a few
games, and, that nothing might be lacking to the sweep and impact of his
fall, added
he said
There was one tense gasp -- among the juniors almost a shriek -- of
quivering horror, he was a heathen -- an outcast --- beyond the extremest
pale of toleration -- self-damned before all men. Stalky bowed his head in
his hands. McTurk, with a bright and cheerful eye, drank in every word,
and Beetle nodded solemn approval.

Some of them, doubtless, expected in a few years to have the honor of a
commission from the Queen, and to wear a sword. Now, he himself had had
some experience of these duties, as a Major in a volunteer regiment,
and he was glad to learn that they had established a volunteer corps in
their midst. The establishment of such an establishment conduced to a
proper and healthy spirit, which, if fostered, would be of great benefit
to the land they loved and were so proud to belong to. Some of those now
present expected, he had no doubt -- some of them anxiously looked
forward to leading their men against the bullets of England's foes;
to confronting the stricken field in all the pride of their youthful
manhood.

Now the reserve of a boy is tenfold deeper than the reserve of a maid,
she being made for one end only by blind Nature, but man for several.
With a large and healthy hand, he tore down these veils, and trampled
them under the well-intentioned feet of eloquence. In a raucous voice,
he cried aloud little matters, like the hope of Honor and the dream of
Glory, that boys do not discuss even with their most intimate equals,
cheerfully assuming that, till he spoke, they had never considered these
possibilities. He pointed them to shining goals, with fingers which
smudged out all radiance on all horizons. He profaned the most secret
places of their souls with outcries and gesticulations, he bade them
consider the deeds of their ancestors in such a fashion that they were
flushed to their tingling ears. Some of them -- the rending voice cut a
frozen stillness -- might have had relatives who perished in defence of
their country. They thought, not a few of them, of an old sword in a
passage, or above a breakfast-room table, seen and fingered by stealth
since they could walk. He adjured them to emulate those illustrious
examples; and they looked all ways in their extreme discomfort.

Their years forbade them even to shape their thoughts clearly to
themselves. They felt savagely that they were being outraged by a fat
man who considered marbles a game.

And so he worked towards his peroration -- which, by the way, he used
later with overwhelming success at a meeting of electors -- while they
sat, flushed and uneasy, in sour disgust. After many, many words, he
reached for the cloth-wrapped stick and thrust one hand in his bosom.
This -- this was the concrete symbol of their land -- worthy of all honor
and reverence! Let no boy look on this flag who did not purpose to
worthily add to its imperishable lustre. He shook it before them -- a
large calico Union Jack, staring in all three colors, and waited for the
thunder of applause that should crown his effort.

They looked in silence. They had certainly seen the thing before -- down
at the coastguard station, or through a telescope, half-mast high when a
brig went ashore on Braunton Sands; above the roof of the Golf-club, and
in Keyte's window, where a certain kind of striped sweetmeat bore it in
paper on each box. But the College never displayed it; it was no part
of the scheme of their lives; the Head had never alluded to it; their
fathers had not declared it unto them. It was a matter shut up, sacred
and apart. What, in the name of everything caddish, was he driving at,
who waved that horror before their eyes? Happy thought! Perhaps he was
drunk.

The Head saved the situation by rising swiftly to propose a vote of
thanks, and at his first motion, the school clapped furiously, from a
sense of relief
he concluded, the gaslight full on his face
To this day we shall never know the rights of the case. The Head
vows that he did no such thing; or that, if he did, it must have been
something in his eye; but those who were present are persuaded that
he winked, once, openly and solemnly, after the word
Mr.
Raymond Martin got his applause full tale. As he said
He left as the prayer-bell rang, and the boys lined up against the wall.
The flag lay still unrolled on the desk, Foxy regarding it with pride,
for he had been touched to the quick by Mr. Martin's eloquence. The
Head and the Common-room, standing back on the dais, could not see the
glaring offence, but a prefect left the line, rolled it up swiftly, and
as swiftly tossed it into a glove and foil locker.

Then, as though he had touched a spring, broke out the low murmur of
content, changing to quick-volleyed hand-clapping.

They discussed the speech in the dormitories. There was not one
dissentient voice. Mr. Raymond Martin, beyond question, was born in a
gutter, and bred in a board-school, where they played marbles. He was
further (I give the barest handful from great store) a Flopshus Cad,
an Outrageous Stinker, a Jelly-bellied Flag-flapper (this was Stalky's
contribution), and several other things which it is not seemly to put
down.

The volunteer cadet-corps fell in next Monday, depressedly, with a face
of shame. Even then, judicious silence might have turned the corner.

Said Foxy
Stalky's fine old silky tone
should have warned him
Stalky returned his rifle to the rack in dead silence, and fell out. His
example was followed by Hogan and Ansell. Perowne hesitated
he began
said the Sergeant, his back
turned
shouted Stalky
The rattle of Sniders, slammed into the rack, drowned his voice, as boy
after boy fell out
he
stammered
cried Stalky, white to the lips,
and ran out
said Beetle to McTurk
McTurk was troubled
They found him, with very bright eyes, whistling between his teeth
And he began to pull Beetle's ears and checks, in the fashion that
was called
Beetle replied, composedly
It was within a few days of the holidays, the term-end examinations,
and, more important still, the issue of the College paper which Beetle
edited. He had been cajoled into that office by the blandishments of
Stalky and McTurk and the extreme rigor of study law. Once installed, he
discovered, as others have done before him, that his duty was to do
the work while his friends criticized. Stalky christened it the
in pious memory of Sponge -- and McTurk compared
the output unfavorably with Ruskin and De Quincey. Only the Head took
an interest in the publication, and his methods were peculiar. He gave
Beetle the run of his brown-bound, tobacco-scented library; prohibiting
nothing, recommending nothing. There Beetle found a fat arm-chair, a
silver inkstand, and unlimited pens and paper. There were scores and
scores of ancient dramatists; there were Hakluyt, his voyages; French
translations of Muscovite authors called Pushkin and Lermontoff; little
tales of a heady and bewildering nature, interspersed with unusual
songs -- Peacock was that writer's name; there was Borrow's "Lavengro";
an odd theme, purporting to be a translation of something, called a
which the Head said was a poem not yet come to its own;
there were hundreds of volumes of verse --- Crashaw; Dryden; Alexander
Smith; L. E. L.; Lydia Sigourney; Fletcher and a purple island; Donne;
Marlowe's "Faust "; and -- this made McTurk (to whom Beetle conveyed it)
sheer drunk for three days -- Ossian
and Rossetti -- to name only a few. Then the Head, drifting in
under pretense of playing censor to the paper, would read here a
verse and here another of these poets, opening up avenues. And, slow
breathing, with half-shut eyes above his cigar, would he speak of great
men living, and journals, long dead, founded in their riotous youth;
of years when all the planets were little new-lit stars trying to find
their places in the uncaring void, and he, the Head, knew them as young
men know one another. So the regular work went to the dogs, Beetle being
full of other matters and meters, hoarded in secret and only told to
McTurk of an afternoon, on the sands, walking high and disposedly round
the wreck of the Armada galleons, shouting and declaiming against the
long-ridged seas.

Thanks in large part to their house-master's experienced distrust, the
three for three consecutive terms had been passed over for promotion to
the rank of prefect -- an office that went by merit, and carried with it
the honor of the ground-ash, and liberty, under restrictions, to use it
said Stalky
He touched his neck proudly. It was encircled by the stiffest of
stick-up collars, which custom decreed could be worn only by the Sixth.
And the Sixth saw those collars and said no word
Abanazar, or
Dick Four of a year ago would have seen them discarded in five minutes
or... But the Sixth of that term was made up mostly of young but
brilliantly clever boys, pets of the house-masters, too anxious for
their dignity to care to come to open odds with the resourceful three.
So they crammed their caps at the extreme back of their heads,
instead of a trifle over one eye as the Fifth should, and rejoiced
in patent-leather boots on week-days, and marvellous made-up ties on
Sundays -- no man rebuking. McTurk was going up for Cooper's Hill, and
Stalky for Sandhurst, in the spring; and the Head had told them both
that, unless they absolutely collapsed during the holidays, they were
safe. As a trainer of colts, the Head seldom erred in an estimate of
form.

He had taken Beetle aside that day and given him much good advice, not
one word of which did Beetle remember when he dashed up to the study,
white with excitement, and poured out the wondrous tale. It demanded a
great belief
said McTurk unsympathetically
said Stalky
said McTurk
They looked out over the sea creaming along the Pebbleridge in the clear
winter light
said
Stalky absently
said McTurk
said Beetle
suggested McTurk
said Stalky, who already saw himself a
Sandhurst cadet
quoth McTurk
said Stalky
said Beetle
Ten minutes later they wheeled out in line, by grace released from
five o'clock call-over, and all the afternoon lay before them. So also
unluckily did King, who never passed without witticisms. But brigades of
Kings could not have ruffled Beetle that day
said he,
rubbing his hands
thought Beetle, smiling into vacancy
Still no sign from Beetle. He was on a steamer, his passage paid into
the wide and wonderful world -- a thousand leagues beyond Lundy Island.

King dropped him with a snarl
Beetle hurried
after his companions up the steep path of the furze-clad hill behind the
College.

They were throwing pebbles on the top of the gasometer, and the grimy
gas-man in change bade them desist. They watched him oil a turncock sunk
in the ground between two furze-bushes
said Stalky
said Cokey
said Stalky, and was silent for at least a minute
A bend of the lane brought them
face to face with Tulke, senior prefect of King's house -- a smallish,
white-haired boy, of the type that must be promoted on account of
its intellect, and ever afterwards appeals to the Head to support its
authority when zeal has outrun discretion.

The three took no sort of notice. They were on lawful pass. Tulke
repeated his question hotly, for he had suffered many slights from
Number Five study, and fancied that he had at last caught them tripping
Stalky replied with his sweetest smile
sputtered Tulke
said McTurk, knowing
Tulke's weakness.

The prefect became inarticulate with rage
said Stalky
McTurk said calmly
This with an
important flourish of his ground-ash
said Stalky
said Stalky
A dog-cart with some girls in it swept round the corner,
and Stalky promptly kneeled before Tulke in the attitude of prayer; so
Tulke turned a color
he began
shouted Beetle, after the manner of Bideford's town
crier
They were given
said Stalky
said McTurk
Tulke swept up the road with an unpleasant glare in his eye
said Stalky
said McTurk
said
Beetle
said Stalky
said McTurk
They sought a little bottle-windowed half dairy, half restaurant, a
dark-brewed, two-hundred-year-old house, at the head of a narrow side
street. They had patronized it from the days of their fagdom, and were
very much friends at home
said Stalky, sliding his arm
round the fifty-six-inch waist of the mistress of the establishment
said Mother Yeo
said McTurk,
lapsing into the broad North Devon that the boys used on their
campaigns
The inner door opened, and Mary,
fair-haired, blue-eyed, and apple-checked, entered with a bowl of cream
in her hands. McTurk kissed her. Beetle followed suit, with exemplary
calm. Both boys were promptly cuffed
said Stalky,
shamelessly winking at Mother Yeo, as he investigated a shelf of jams
said Mary
invitingly, in that direction
said Stalky, his back turned
An
unreproducible sniff, half contempt, half reminiscence, rounded the
retort
said Stalky
Incautiously Mary did as she was bid
said Stalky, taking it without injury
Mary began, bubbling with mirth
he said, while McTurk solemnly waltzed Mother Yeo out of breath,
and Beetle told Mary the sad news, as they sat down to clotted cream,
jam, and hot bread
said McTurk, looking through the blind
said Mother Yeo
She rolled into the inner room to make the score
said Stalky, suddenly, with tragic intensity
the damsel replied
Stalky pointed to the unconscious
Tulke
She nodded her head sagaciously
said Stalky, exhibiting the coin.

Half-a-crown was much to Mary Yeo, and a jest was more; but
said McTurk, at the psychological moment
Beetle echoed, knowing her weak point
McTurk planted one foot firmly against the inner door lest Mother Yeo
should return inopportunely, for Mary's face was set. It was then that
Tulke found his way blocked by a tall daughter of Devon -- that county of
easy kisses, the pleasantest under the sun. He dodged aside politely.
She reflected a moment, and laid a vast hand upon his shoulder
said she.

Over the handkerchief he had crammed into his mouth Stalky could see the
boy turn scarlet
Tulke gasped and wheeled. Solemnly and conscientiously Mary kissed him
twice, and the luckless prefect fled.

She stepped into the shop, her eyes full of simple wonder
said Stalky, handing over the money
said McTurk
Whereupon Mary cuffed them all round.

As they went out with tingling ears, said Stalky generally
said Beetle
said McTurk
said
Stalky
Beetle capered at the mere thought of it
said Stalky
Beetle knew what help meant,
though he was by no means averse to showing his importance before his
allies. The little loft behind Randall's printing office was his own
territory, where he saw himself already controlling the
Here,
under the guidance of the inky apprentice, he had learned to find his
way more or less circuitously about the case, and considered himself an
expert compositor.

The school paper in its locked formes lay on a stone-topped table, a
proof by the side; but not for worlds would Beetle have corrected from
the mere proof. With a mallet and a pair of tweezers, he knocked out
mysterious wedges of wood that released the forme, picked a letter here
and inserted a letter there, reading as he went along and stopping much
to chuckle over his own contributions
said McTurk
said Beetle
McTurk drew off with Stalky to prowl about the office. They left little
unturned
aid Stalky, in a few
minutes
Said Beetle, after a glance
said McTurk
said Stalky
was the reply
said Stalky,
all lighted from within by a devilish joy
said Beetle, transposing an _aliud_ and _Asiae_ from two
sentences
Stalky knew the Puffington run by heart
said
McTurk
murmured Stalky
said McTurk, over another forme
said Stalky, after a few
minutes' zealous toil
began Beetle, plying the
tweezers
suggested Stalky
They edited him faithfully till it was too dark to see
said Beetle, as they slid out of the loft window into a back alley of
old acquaintance and started on a three-mile trot to the College. But
the revision of the classics had detained them too long. They halted,
blown and breathless, in the furze at the back of the gasometer, the
College lights twinkling below, ten minutes at least late for tea and
lock-up
puffed McTurk
began Stalky
snapped McTurk
They heard him groping in the wet, and presently beheld a great miracle.
The lights of the Coastguard cottages near the sea went out; the
brilliantly illuminated windows of the Golf-club disappeared, and were
followed by the frontages of the two hotels. Scattered villas dulled,
twinkled, and vanished. Last of all, the College lights died also. They
were left in the pitchy darkness of a windy winter's night
said
Stalky
They squattered through the dripping gorse as the College hummed like
an angry hive and the dining-rooms chorused
till they
came to the edge of the sunk path that divided them from their study.
Dropping that ha-ha like bullets, and rebounding like boys, they dashed
to their study, in less than two minutes had changed into dry trousers
and coat, and, ostentatiously slippered, joined the mob in the
dining-hall, which resembled the storm-centre of a South American
revolution
Stalky elbowed his way into
the press, howling lustily for gas
Prout, as the nearest house-master, was trying to restore order, for
rude boys were flicking butter-pats across chaos, and McTurk had turned
on the fags' tea-urn, so that many were parboiled and wept with an
unfeigned dolor. The Fourth and Upper Third broke into the school song,
the
to the accompaniment of drumming knife-handles;
and the junior forms shrilled bat-like shrieks and raided one another's
victuals. Two hundred and fifty boys in high condition, seeking for more
light, are truly earnest inquirers.

When a most vile smell of gas told them that supplies had been renewed,
Stalky, waistcoat unbuttoned, sat gorgedly over what might have been
his fourth cup of tea
he said
It was Carson, the head of the school, a simple, straight-minded soul,
and a pillar of the First Fifteen, who crossed over from the prefects'
table and in a husky, official voice invited the three to attend in his
study in half an hour
hissed
the tables, and they imitated barbarically the actions and effects of
the ground-ash
said Stalky, turning half-face to
Beetle
was the answer
said Stalky.

McTurk's lank frame stiffened in every muscle and his eyelids dropped
half over his eyes. That last was a war-signal.

The eight or nine seniors, their faces very set and sober, were ranged
in chairs round Carson's severely Philistine study. Tulke was not
popular among them, and a few who had had experience of Stalky and
Company doubted that he might, perhaps, have made an ass of himself. But
the dignity of the Sixth was to be upheld. So Carson began hurriedly
said Stalky
said McTurk
said Beetle
said Carson
Beetle insisted
said Stalky
said McTurk,
wagging his head
The Sixth looked at each other uneasily. Tulke had called three
prefects' meetings in two terms, till the Head had informed the Sixth
that they were expected to maintain discipline without the recurrent
menace of his authority. Now, it seemed that they had made a blunder at
the outset, but any right-minded boy would have sunk the legality and
been properly impressed by the Court. Beetle's protest was distinct
cried one Naughten incautiously.
Then was Beetle filled with a noble inspiration
Tulke turned a rich sloe
color
Beetle went on
I -- I -- I" Tulke began
said Beetle
not for nothing had Beetle perused the later
poets
A new and
heaven-cleft path opened before him that instant
he shouted
said McTurk, with simple dignity
said Stalky sympathetically.

The Sixth were too taken aback to reply. So, carefully modelling
his rhetoric on King, Beetle followed up the attack, surpassing and
surprising himself
that was a quotation
from the school chaplain
that was Hakluyt) "before all the city" (a reminiscence of Milton
said Carson
cried Beetle all
in one breath
said Stalky
said McTurk
said
Carson angrily
said Stalky, with the air of a virgin
martyr
cried Tulke
There was a pause, filled by Stalky's long, liquid whistle of contempt,
amazement, and derision
gulped the persecuted one
McTurk interjected
roared Naughten
returned the Irishman
put in Stalky
cried Beetle, taking up the running with a rush
said Stalky, turning aside to hide his emotions. McTurk's face
merely expressed lofty contempt and a little weariness
interposed a prefect
Beetle dropped
into a drawling parody of King's most biting colloquial style -- the
gentle rain after the thunder-storm
here he wheeled fiercely on the other two
said Carson,
thereby handing himself bound to the enemy
This with the air of one who finds loathsome gifts in his
locker
The door banged behind their outraged innocence
sobbed Stalky, hurling
himself on Beetle's panting bosom as soon as they reached the study
Dear-r man" said McTurk, embracing Beetle's head with both arms, while
he swayed it to and fro on the neck, in time to this ancient burden
puffed Beetle, emerging
His countenance clouded
said McTurk
Stalky snorted
And the Sixth in Carson's study sat aghast, glowering at Tulke, who was
on the edge of tears
said the head-prefect acidly
Tulke wailed
said a prefect of Prout's house
said Naughten
Naughten retorted
Outside of his work, Tulke's mind moved
slowly
Naughten began,
ingratiatingly, when he found Beetle
said Beetle, with the cold reluctance of one who foresees an
unpleasant public duty
said Naughten hastily
But the chance of supplying the missing adjective was too tempting. So
Naughten returned to that still undissolved meeting, Beetle, white, icy,
and aloof, at his heels
he began, with laboriously crisp articulation
He wheeled, his head among the stars, and strode statelily back to his
study, where Stalky and McTurk lay side by side upon the table wiping
their tearful eyes -- too weak to move.


The Latin prose paper was a success beyond their wildest dreams.
Stalky and McTurk were, of course, out of all examinations (they did
extra-tuition with the Head), but Beetle attended with zeal
said King, as he dealt
out the papers
Beetle studied the print with knit brows
he murmured
said King, with scholastic coquetry
Tulke left his place and laid the paper on the desk. King looked, read,
and turned a ghastly green
thought Beetle
King began with a gulp
he held the thing at arm's
length
whispered Beetle to his
neighbor
The answer came pat from a dozen throats at once
etc.,
etc.

Naturally Mr. King considered this was an attempt to undermine his
authority, and, instead of beginning dictation at once, delivered a
lecture on the spirit in which examinations should be approached. As the
storm subsided, Beetle fanned it afresh
from a back bench. Mr. King wished to know whether Beetle
took it upon himself personally to conduct the traditions of the school.
His zeal for knowledge ate up another fifteen minutes, during which the
prefects showed unmistakable signs of boredom
said Beetle, afterwards, in dismantled Number
Five
said Stalky, pensively
said Stalky
Tulke preserved that modesty till the last moment -- till the
journey-money had been paid, and the boys were filling the brakes that
took them to the station. Then the three tenderly constrained him to
wait a while
said Stalky
shouted Stalky,
magnificent in top-hat, stiff collar, spats, and high-waisted,
snuff-colored ulster
said McTurk
this to the driver
said
McTurk, gazing round with bland patronage
That very Infant who told the story of the capture of Boh Na Ghee
&lsqb;_A Conference_ _of the Powers_
to Eustace Cleaver,
novelist, inherited an estateful baronetcy, with vast revenues, resigned
the service, and became a landholder, while his mother stood guard over
him to see that he married the right girl. But, new to his position, he
presented the local volunteers with a full-sized magazine-rifle range,
two miles long, across the heart of his estate, and the surrounding
families, who lived in savage seclusion among woods full of pheasants,
regarded him as an erring maniac. The noise of the firing disturbed
their poultry, and Infant was cast out from the society of J.P.'s and
decent men till such time as a daughter of the county might lure him
back to right thinking. He took his revenge by filling the house
with choice selections of old schoolmates home on leave -- affable
detrimentals, at whom the bicycle-riding maidens of the surrounding
families were allowed to look from afar. I knew when a troop-ship was in
port by the Infant's invitations. Sometimes he would produce old friends
of equal seniority; at others, young and blushing giants whom I had left
small fags far down in the Lower Second; and to these Infant and the
elders expounded the whole duty of man in the Army
said the Infant
He was
just thirty, and in that same summer an imperious wire drew me to his
baronial castle
It was an unusually good haul, arranged with a single eye to my benefit.
There was a baldish, broken-down captain of Native Infantry, shivering
with ague behind an indomitable red nose -- and they called him Captain
Dickson. There was another captain, also of Native Infantry, with a fair
mustache; his face was like white glass, and his hands were fragile, but
he answered joyfully to the cry of Tertius. There was an enormously
big and well-kept man, who had evidently not campaigned for years,
clean-shaved, soft-voiced, and cat-like, but still Abanazar for all that
he adorned the Indian Political Service; and there was a lean Irishman,
his face tanned blue-black with the suns of the Telegraph Department.
Luckily the baize doors of the bachelors' wing fitted tight, for we
dressed promiscuously in the corridor or in each other's rooms, talking,
calling, shouting, and anon waltzing by pairs to songs of Dick Four's
own devising.

There were sixty years of mixed work to be sifted out between us,
and since we had met one another from time to time in the quick
scene-shifting of India -- a dinner, camp, or a race-meeting here; a
dak-bungalow or railway station up country somewhere else -- we had never
quite lost touch. Infant sat on the banisters, hungrily and enviously
drinking it in. He enjoyed his baronetcy, but his heart yearned for the
old days.

It was a cheerful babel of matters personal, provincial, and imperial,
pieces of old call-over lists, and new policies, cut short by the roar
of a Burmese gong, and we went down not less than a quarter of a mile of
stairs to meet Infant's mother, who had known us all in our school-days
and greeted us as if those had ended a week ago. But it was
fifteen years since, with tears of laughter, she had lent me a gray
princess-skirt for amateur theatricals.

That was a dinner from the
served in an eighty-foot
hall full of ancestors and pots of flowering roses, and, what was more
impressive, heated by steam. When it was ended and the little mother had
gone away
we
gathered about an apple-wood fire, in a gigantic polished steel grate,
under a mantel-piece ten feet high, and the Infant compassed us about
with curious liqueurs and that kind of cigarette which serves best to
introduce your own pipe
grunted Dick Four from a sofa, where he had been packed
with a rug over him
We were all nearly on top of the fire, except Infant, who had been long
enough at home to take exercise when he felt chilled. This is a grisly
diversion, but much affected by the English of the Island
drawled McTurk
said Tertius
said McTurk, with a chuckle
said Dick Four
I asked
said Dick Four, scornfully
I said
said Tertius, pulling his mustache
and staring into the fire
the Infant
volunteered
said McTurk, reaching forward absently to twitch
my dress-tie into position
said Abanazar from his arm-chair
I said
he replied in his softest tones
We did not -- Infant, McTurk, and I; and we called for information very
politely
said Tertius
McTurk gazed at Tertius with all an Irishman's contempt for the
tongue-tied Saxon
he said
He pointed to Dick Four, whose nose gleamed
scornfully over the rug
said Dick Four
He wiped his ragged mustache above the drink; and, his teeth chattering
in his head, began
said Abanazar, hastily
said Tertius
thus did Dick Four refer to his subaltern
said Tertius
said Tertius, with a shudder
said the Infant, explosively, as the full depth of the
strategy dawned on him
said McTurk, purring rapturously
said Tertius
said Dick Four
said Tertius
said I
the Infant suggested
Dick Four replied
Tertius broke in
said Dick Four
said Tertius
roared McTurk. Somehow we all began to sing it, and there was
an interruption
said Tertius, when we were quiet. No one of the Aladdin
company could forget that tune
said Dick Four
I asked
said Tertius
said Tertius, placidly
McTurk demanded, purling hard over his pipe
said Tertius
said Dick
Four
said the fair and fat Abanazar
Dick Four threw up his thin, dry hand with the blue veins at the back of
it
That, also, was as far as Dick Four could get, because we had to sing
the old song through twice, again and once more, and subsequently, in
order to repeat it
We were all struggling for a sight of the
well-known unformed handwriting.) "I'll read it aloud.

     "'Fort Everett, February 19.

"'Dear Dick, or Tertius: The bearer of this is in charge of seventy-five
recruits, all pukka devils, but desirous of leading new lives. They have
been slightly polished, and after being boiled may shape well. I want
you to give thirty of them to my adjutant, who, though God's own ass,
will need men this spring. The rest you can keep. You will be interested
to learn that I have extended my road to the end of the Malot country.
All headmen and priests concerned in last September's affair worked one
month each, supplying road metal from their own houses. Everett's grave
is covered by a forty-foot mound, which should serve well as a base for
future triangulations. Rutton Singh sends his best salaams. I am
making some treaties, and have given my prisoner -- who also sends his
salaams -- local rank of Khan Bahadur
said Dick Four, when the roaring, the shouting,
the laughter, and, I think, the tears, had subsided
Abanazar laughed a little nervous, misleading, official laugh
suggested Dick Four
said McTurk, with a nod to me
said Tertius
This with amazement from the Infant, for Abanazar resembled
nothing so much as a fluffy Persian cat
said Abanazar
I began
I said
said the Infant, with a
large and luminous leer
said Abanazar
said McTurk
said Dick Four
said McTurk, swelling with pride.

We all turned as one man
said Dick
Four; and we smoked for some time in silence
said McTurk, casting back through the years
said Dick Four. Then McTurk told
said Dick Four,
nodding
I said
said Dick Four
said the Infant
said Tertius
said I
said the Infant.

And I have
</text>
