<text>
DUDU
MATTHEW ARNOLD




TO
H.R.H. VITTORIO EMANUELE
PRINCE OF NAPLES
CROWN PRINCE OF ITALY
ONE OF THE KINDLIEST OF MY YOUNG READERS

          MAISON DU CHANOINE,
             _October_ 1879
LA FONTAINE.


It was so cold. Ah, so very cold! So thought the old raven as he hobbled
up and down the terrace walk at the back of the house -- the walk that was
so pleasant in summer, with its pretty view of the lower garden, gay
with the bright, stiffly-arranged flowerbeds, so pleasantly warm and yet
shady with the old trees overhead, where the raven's second cousins, the
rooks, managed their affairs, not without a good deal of chatter about
it, it must be confessed
the raven was in the habit
of calling them with contempt -- all to himself, of course, for no one
understood the different tones of his croaking, even though he was a
French raven and had received the best of educations. But to-day he was
too depressed in spirit by the cold to think of his relations or their
behaviour at all. He just hopped or hobbled -- I hardly know which you
would call it -- slowly and solemnly up and down the long walk, where the
snow lay so thick that at each hop it came ever so far up his black
claws, which annoyed him very much, I assure you, and made him wish more
than ever that summer was back again.

Poor old fellow! he was not usually of a discontented disposition; but
to-day, it must be allowed, he was in the right about the cold. It was
_very_ cold.

Several others beside the raven were thinking so -- the three chickens who
lived in a queer little house in one corner of the yard thought so, and
huddled the closer together, as they settled themselves for the night.
For though it was only half-past three in the afternoon, they thought it
was no use sitting up any longer on such a make-believe of a day, when
not the least little ray of sunshine had succeeded in creeping through
the leaden-grey sky. And the tortoise _would_ have thought so too if he
could, but he was too sleepy to think at all, as he "cruddled" himself
into his shell in the corner of the laurel hedge, and dreamt of the nice
hot days that were past.

And upstairs, inside the old house, somebody else was thinking so too -- a
little somebody who seemed to be doing her best to make herself,
particularly her nose, colder still, for she was pressing it hard on to
the icy window-pane and staring out on to the deserted, snow-covered
garden, and thinking how cold it was, and wishing it was summer time
again, and fancying how it would feel to be a raven like old
all
at once, in the mixed-up, dancing-about way that "thinking" was
generally done in the funny little brain of Mademoiselle Jeanne.

Inside the room it was getting dark, and the white snow outside seemed
to make it darker
said a voice belonging to a servant who just then
opened the door
Jeanne gave a little start when she heard herself spoken to. She had
been all alone in the room for some time, with not a sound about her.
She turned slowly from the window and came near the fire
she said
Marcelline was Jeanne's old nurse, and she had been her mother's nurse
too. She was really rather old, how old nobody seemed exactly to know,
but Jeanne thought her _very_ old, and asked her once if she had not
been her grandmother's nurse too. Any one else but Marcelline would have
been offended at such a question; but Marcelline was not like any one
else, and she never was offended at anything. She was so old that for
many years no one had seen much difference in her -- she had reached a
sort of settled oldness, like an arm-chair which may once have been
covered with bright-coloured silk, but which, with time and wear, has
got to have an all-over-old look which never seems to get any worse. Not
that Marcelline was dull or grey to look at -- she was bright and cheery,
and when she had a new clean cap on, all beautifully frilled and crimped
round her face, Jeanne used to tell her that she was beautiful, quite
beautiful, and that if she was _very_ good and always did exactly what
Jeanne asked her, she -- Jeanne -- would have her to be nurse to her
children when she had grown up to be a lady, married to some very nice
gentleman.

And when Jeanne chattered like that, Marcelline used to smile; she never
said anything, she just smiled. Sometimes Jeanne liked to see her
smile; sometimes it would make her impatient, and she would say
But all she could get Marcelline to answer would be
This evening -- or perhaps I should say afternoon, for whatever hour the
chickens' timepiece made it, it was only half-past three by the great
big clock that stood at the end of the long passage by Jeanne's room
door;-- this afternoon Jeanne was not quite as lively as she sometimes
was. She sat down on the floor in front of the fire and stared into it.
It was pretty to look at just then, for the wood was burning redly, and
at the tiniest touch a whole bevy of lovely sparks would fly out like
bees from a hive, or a covey of birds, or better still, like a thousand
imprisoned fairies escaping at some magic touch. Of all things, Jeanne
loved to give this magic touch. There was no poker, but she managed just
as well with a stick of unburnt wood, or sometimes, when she was _quite_
sure Marcelline was not looking, with the toe of her little shoe. Just
now it was Marcelline who set the fairy sparks free by moving the logs a
little and putting on a fresh one behind
said Jeanne.

Marcelline did not speak, and when Jeanne looked up at her, she saw by
the light of the fire that she was smiling. Jeanne held up her
forefinger
she said
said Jeanne
Marcelline shook her head
she said
Still Marcelline did not reply. She in her turn was looking into the
fire. Suddenly she spoke
she said
exclaimed Jeanne
said Marcelline, quickly again
Jeanne's bright dark eyes glanced up at Marcelline with an expression of
mingled curiosity and respect
she said.

Marcelline's old eyes, nearly as bright and dark still as Jeanne's own,
had a half-mischievous look in them as she replied, solemnly shaking her
head
said Jeanne, half impressed, half rebellious
said Marcelline
asked Jeanne,
lowering her voice a little
said Marcelline; but that was all she _would_ say, and Jeanne
couldn't get her to tell her any fairy stories, and had to content
herself with making them for herself instead out of the queer shapes of
the burning wood of the fire.

She was so busy with these fancies that she did not hear the stopping of
the click-click of Marcelline's knitting needles, nor did she hear the
old nurse get up from her chair and go out of the room. A few minutes
before, the _facteur_ had rung at the great wooden gates of the
courtyard -- a rather rare event, for in those days letters came only
twice a week -- but this, too, little Jeanne had not heard. She must have
grown drowsy with the quiet and the heat of the fire, for she quite
started when the door again opened, and Marcelline's voice told her that
her mother wanted her to go down to the salon, she had something to say
to her
said Jeanne, rubbing her eyes
persisted Jeanne
said Jeanne, curiously
she
added, eagerly
She would say no more, but smoothed Jeanne's soft dark hair, never very
untidy it must be owned, for it was always neatly plaited in two tails
that hung down her back, as was then the fashion for little girls of
Jeanne's age and country, and bade her again not to delay going
downstairs.

Jeanne set off. In that great rambling old house it was really quite a
journey from her room to her mother's salon. There was the long corridor
to pass, at one end of which were Jeanne's quarters, at the other a room
which had had for her since her babyhood a mingled fascination and awe.
It was hung with tapestry, very old, and in some parts faded, but still
distinct. As Jeanne passed by the door of this room, she noticed that it
was open, and the gleam of the faint moonlight on the snow-covered
garden outside attracted her
she said to herself
Houpet" was Jeanne's favourite of the three chickens. He had come by
his name on account of a wonderful tuft of feathers on the top of his
head, which stuck straight up and then waved down again, something like
a little umbrella. No doubt he was a very rare and wonderful chicken,
and if I were clever about chickens I would be able to tell you all his
remarkable points. But that I cannot do. I can only say he was the
queerest-looking creature that ever pecked about a poultry-yard, and how
it came to pass that Jeanne admired him so, I cannot tell you either
she repeated, as she ran across the tapestry room to the
uncurtained window
she called out, as
if the raven could have heard her so far off and through the closely
shut window
Dudu calmly continued his promenade up and down the terrace. Jeanne
could clearly distinguish his black shape against the white ground
she went on
for just
at that moment the moon, passing from under a cloud, lighted up one side
of the tapestry, which, as Jeanne said, represented a garden with
various curious occupants. And as the wavering brightness caught the
grotesque figures in turn, it really seemed to the little girl as if
they moved. Half pleased, half startled at the fancy, she clapped her
hands
she cried
and almost as she said the words a loud croak
from the raven sounded in her ears, and turning round, there, to her
amazement, she saw Dudu standing on the ledge of the window outside,
his bright eyes shining, his black wings flapping, just as if he would
say
Completely startled by this time, Jeanne turned and fled
she said by herself
But when she got down to the brightly-lighted salon her cheeks were so
pale and her eyes so startled-looking that her mother was quite
concerned, and eagerly asked what was the matter
said Jeanne at first, after the manner of little girls, and
boys too, when they do not want to be cross-questioned; but after a
while she confessed that she had run into the tapestry room on her way
down, and that the moonlight made the figures look as if they were
moving -- and -- and -- that Dudu came and stood on the window-sill and
croaked at her
repeated her
father
thought Jeanne to herself, for her mind was
in a queer state of confusion, and she would not have felt very much
astounded at anything. But aloud she only repeated
And to satisfy her, her kind father, though he was not so young as he
had been, and the bad weather made him very rheumatic, mounted upstairs
to the tapestry room, and carefully examined the window inside and out
was his report
he continued
thought Jeanne to herself again, though she
was far too well brought up a little French girl to contradict her
father by saying so
was all she said.

But her parents still looked a little uneasy
said her mother
said Jeanne's white-headed papa
Jeanne pricked up her ears at this, and glanced at her mother
inquiringly. Instantly there started into her mind Marcelline's prophecy
about her wish
she thought to herself
she cried, eagerly but respectfully
Jeanne's mother softly stroked the cheeks, red enough now, of her
excited little daughter
she replied
she added in a lower voice.

Jeanne could not speak. Her face was glowing with excitement, her breath
came quick and short, almost, it seemed, as if she were going to cry
was all she could say
but her mother understood
her
asked Jeanne next
added Jeanne, after some consideration
said her mother
went on Jeanne's mother, turning to her husband as she always
did in any difficulty -- he was so much older and wiser than she, she used
to say
said Jeanne's father, putting on his spectacles
as he took the letter from his wife
As Marcelline was preparing to put Jeanne to bed that night, the little
girl suddenly put her arms round her nurse's neck, and drew down her old
face till it was on a level with her own
she said
Marcelline smiled
she said
suddenly she stopped as the remembrance of her adventure in the tapestry
room returned to her mind
she reflected. It was better
certainly to approach such subjects respectfully
she
added, after a little silence
exclaimed Marcelline
said Jeanne
But old Marcelline only smiled
CHILD WORLD.


If it were cold just then in the thick-walled, well-warmed old house,
which was Jeanne's home, you may fancy _how_ cold it was in the rumbling
diligence, which in those days was the only way of travelling in France.
And for a little boy whose experience of long journeys was small, this
one was really rather trying. But Jeanne's cousin Hugh was a very
patient little boy. His life, since his parents' death, had not been a
_very_ happy one, and he had learnt to bear troubles without
complaining. And now that he was on his way to the kind cousins his
mother had so often told him of, the cousins who had been so kind to
_her_, before she had any home of her own, his heart was so full of
happiness that, even if the journey had been twice as cold and
uncomfortable, he would not have thought himself to be pitied.

It was a pale little face, however, which looked out of the diligence
window at the different places where it stopped, and a rather timid
voice which asked in the pretty broken French he had not quite forgotten
since the days that his mother taught him her own language, for a little
milk for his
The pet, which had travelled on his knees all the
way from England -- comfortably nestled up in hay and cotton wool in its
cage, which looked something like a big mouse-trap -- much better off in
its way certainly than its poor little master. But it was a great
comfort to him: the sight of its funny little nose poking out between
the bars of its cage made Hugh feel ever so much less lonely, and when
he had secured a little milk for his guinea-pig he did not seem to mind
half so much about anything for himself.

Still it was a long and weary journey, and poor Hugh felt very glad when
he was wakened up from the uncomfortable dose, which was all in the way
of sleep he could manage, to be told that at last they had arrived. This
was the town where his friends lived, and a
the conductor
added, was inquiring for him -- Jeanne's father's valet it was, who had
been sent to meet him and take him safe to the old house, where an eager
little heart was counting the minutes till he came.

They looked at each other curiously when at last they met. Jeanne's eyes
were sparkling and her cheeks burning, and her whole little person in a
flutter of joyful excitement, and yet she couldn't speak. Now that the
little cousin was there, actually standing before her, she could not
speak. How was it? He was not _quite_ what she had expected; he looked
paler and quieter than any boys she had seen, and -- was he not glad to
see her?-- glad to have come?-- she asked herself with a little misgiving.
She looked at him again -- his blue eyes were very sweet and gentle, and,
tired though he was, Jeanne could see that he was trying to smile and
look pleased. But he was _very_ tired and very shy. That was all that
was the matter. And his shyness made Jeanne feel shy too
she said at last
said Hugh
he added, glancing at a side-table where a little supper had
been laid out for him
As he spoke he held up for Jeanne to see the small box he was carrying,
and she gave a little scream of pleasure when, through the bars, she
caught sight of the guinea-pig's soft nose, poking out, saying as
plainly almost as if he had spoken
cried Jeanne
Once set free, her tongue ran on so fast that sometimes Hugh had
difficulty to understand her. But the ice was broken any way, and when,
an hour or two later, Jeanne's mother told her she might take Hugh up to
show him his room, the two trotted off, hand-in-hand, as if they had
been close companions for years
said Jeanne, with a tiny tone
of patronising
Hugh looked at Jeanne for a moment without speaking
he asked, after a little pause.

Jeanne thought for a minute
she said
She screwed her rosy little mouth into the funniest shape as she tried
to manage
Hugh could hardly help laughing
he said
he added,
dropping his voice a little
repeated Jeanne, stopping half-way up the staircase to throw
her arms round Hugh's neck at the greatest risk to the equilibrium of
the whole party, including the guinea-pig
said Hugh, from the bottom of his soul
said Jeanne triumphantly
repeated Hugh
he added, as a sudden recollection struck him
said Jeanne
She opened the door of the tapestry room as she spoke, for while
chattering they had mounted the staircase and made their way along the
corridor. Hugh followed his little cousin into the room, and stood
gazing round him with curious surprise and pleasure. The walls were well
lighted up, for Marcelline had carried a lamp upstairs and set it down
on the table, and a bright fire was burning in the wide old-fashioned
hearth
said Hugh, after a minute's silence
Jeanne shook her head
she said
Hugh opened his blue eyes very wide
he said
Jeanne still shook her head
she said
continued Hugh
said Marcelline, who had followed the children into the
room
said Jeanne
Marcelline smiled and seemed pleased, which was rather funny. Most
nurses would have begun scolding Jeanne for dreaming of such a thing as
running about the house in the middle of the night to admire the
moonlight on tapestry or on anything else. But then Marcelline certainly
was rather a funny person
she said
to Hugh.

Hugh looked rather distressed
he said
He looked at Marcelline, appealingly
she said; but Jeanne interrupted her
she said
said Hugh
replied Jeanne
she added, glancing round, and
seeing that Marcelline had left the room
She darted off as she spoke, and Hugh, nothing loth, his precious Nibble
still in his arms, followed her. They ran down the long corridor, on to
which opened both the tapestry room and Jeanne's room at the other end,
through a small sort of anteroom, and then -- for though they were
_upstairs_, the garden being built in terraces was at this part of the
house on a level with the first floor -- then straight out into what
little Jeanne called
Hugh stood still and gazed about him with delight and astonishment
he exclaimed
Jeanne stopped short in her progress along the tonnelle
she said in a matter-of-fact tone
There was no moonlight, but the light from the windows streamed out to
where the children stood, and shone upon the beautiful icicles on the
branches above their heads. For the tonnelle was a kind of arbour -- a
long covered passage made by trees at each side, whose boughs had been
trained to meet and interlace overhead. And now, with their fairy
tracery of snow and frost, the effect of the numberless little branches
forming a sparkling roof was pretty and fanciful in the extreme. Jeanne
looked up as she was told
she said
said Hugh
said Jeanne
Off she set again, and Hugh after her, though not so fast, for Jeanne
knew every step of the way, and poor Hugh had never been in the garden
before. It was not very far to go, however -- the chickens' house was in a
little courtyard just a few steps from the tonnelle, and guided by
Jeanne's voice in front as much as by the faint glimpses of her figure,
dark against the snow, Hugh soon found himself safe beside her at the
door of the chickens' house. Jeanne felt about till she got hold of the
latch, which she lifted, and was going to push open the door and enter
when Hugh stopped her
he said
said Jeanne
She
opened the door as she spoke, and gently pulled Hugh in after her
she went on
asked
Hugh rather anxiously
replied Jeanne
objected Hugh.

For all answer Jeanne gave a sort of little whistle -- half whistle, half
coo it was
she called softly
A faint, a very faint little rustle was heard up above in the corner
where Jeanne had tried to persuade her cousin that the chickens were to
be _seen_, and delighted at this evidence that any way they were to be
_heard_, she turned to him triumphantly
she said
She felt about for Hugh's hand, and having got it, turned to go. But she
stopped to put her head in again for a moment at the door
she said
said Hugh, as they were running back to the house
together along the snowy garden path
began Jeanne
she went on, in a lower voice
For right
before them on the path stood the old raven, on one leg as usual, though
this it was too dark to see clearly. And, as Jeanne spoke, he gave a
sharp, sudden croak, which made both the children jump, and then
deliberately hopped away
said Hugh with surprise
Jeanne laughed
she said
Hugh looked much impressed, but not at all surprised
he said
she said
said Hugh
he added reflectively
said Jeanne
Hugh replied
They both laughed merrily at the idea, and were still laughing when they
ran against Marcelline at the door which they had left open at the end
of the tonnelle
she exclaimed
Her tone was anxious, but not cross. She hurried them in to the warm
fire, however, and carefully examined their feet to make sure that their
shoes and stockings were not wet
said Hugh, fixing his soft blue eyes on the
old nurse in surprise
said Jeanne, flinging her arms round the old nurse's neck, and
giving her a kiss first on one cheek then on the other
said Hugh, meditatively
said Jeanne
Marcelline laughed, but did not speak
she said at last
Jeanne pricked up her ears at this
she said solemnly
But nothing more was to be got out of the old nurse.

When the children were undressed, Jeanne begged leave to run into Hugh's
room with him to tuck him into bed, and make him feel at home the first
night. There was no lamp in the room, but the firelight danced curiously
on the quaint figures on the walls
said little Jeanne in a
motherly way, as she was leaving the room
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
Jeanne clapped her hands
she exclaimed
said Hugh. So Jeanne skipped off in the highest spirits
CHILD NATURE
inquired Jeanne the next morning in a
confidential and mysterious tone.

Hugh hesitated
he said at last
he stopped and hesitated
again.

The two children were having their
consisting of two
great big cups of nice hot milky coffee and two big slices of bread,
with the sweet fresh butter for which the country where Jeanne's home
was is famed. They were alone in Jeanne's room, and Marcelline had drawn
a little table close to the fire for them, for this morning it seemed
colder than ever; fresh snow had fallen during the night, and out in
the garden nothing was to be seen but smoothly-rounded white mounds of
varying sizes and heights, and up in the sky the dull blue-grey curtain
of snow-cloud made one draw back shivering from the window, feeling as
if the sun had gone off in a sulky fit and would _never_ come back
again.

But inside, close by the brightly-blazing wood fire, Jeanne and Hugh
found themselves
as the little girl called it, very well
indeed. And the hot coffee was very nice, much nicer, Hugh thought, than
the very weak tea which his grandmother's maid used to give him for
breakfast at home. He stirred it round and round slowly with his spoon,
staring into his cup, while he repeated, in answer to little Jeanne's
question about what he had dreamt
said Jeanne rather impatiently
said Hugh slowly
asked Jeanne eagerly
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
pursued Jeanne after a few moments' silence, and a few
more bites at her bread and butter
said Hugh
said Jeanne
She had not told Hugh of the trick the raven had played her, though why
she had not done so she could hardly have explained. Perhaps she was a
little ashamed of having been so frightened; perhaps she was still a
little afraid of Dudu; and most of all, I think, she had a great
curiosity to find out more about the mysterious bird, and thought it
best to leave Hugh to face his own adventures
she thought
The snow was still, as I said, thick on the ground, thicker, indeed,
than the day before. But the children managed to amuse themselves very
well. Marcelline would not hear of their going out, not even as far as
the chickens' house, but she fetched Nibble to pay them a visit in the
afternoon, and they had great fun with him
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
she added, going close up to the window near which she
had been standing
Hugh came forward and looked out. There were the four birds, making the
quaintest group you could fancy. Houpet with his waving tuft of feathers
was perched on the top rung of a short garden ladder, his two little
hens as usual close beside him. And down below on the path stood the
raven, on one leg of course, his queer black head very much on one side,
as he surveyed the little group above him
he seemed to be saying to himself; but Houpet was
not to be put down so. With a shrill, clear crow he descended from his
perch, stepped close up to Dudu, looked him in the face, and then
quietly marched off, followed by his two companions. The children
watched this little scene with the greatest interest
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne, clapping her hands
said Hugh
he went on, bowing politely from the window to the raven, who had
cocked his head in another direction, and seemed now to be looking up at
the two children with the same supercilious stare he had bestowed upon
the cock and hens
added Hugh, turning to Jeanne
said Jeanne
For Dudu was eyeing them unmistakably by this time, his head more on one
side than ever, and his lame leg stuck out in the air like a
walking-stick
said Hugh, in a whisper
said Jeanne
she went on, catching hold of Hugh
said Hugh gravely
said Jeanne pathetically
But the following night and several nights after that went by, and
nothing was heard or seen of Monsieur Dudu. The weather got a little
milder; that is to say, the snow gradually melted away, and the children
were allowed to go out into the garden and visit their pets. Nibble
seemed quite at home in his new quarters, and was now permitted to run
about the chicken-house at his own sweet will; and Jeanne greatly
commended Houpet for his kindness to the little stranger, which
commendation the chicken received in very good part, particularly when
it took the shape of all the tit-bits left on the children's plates
said Jeanne one day when she had persuaded the
little cock to peck some crumbs out of her hand
said Hugh, consideringly
said Jeanne, indignantly
said Hugh, giving an amiable
little push to the tortoise, who happened to be lying at his feet
said Jeanne
said Hugh
he went on, but stopped
suddenly
said Jeanne
said Jeanne
suggested Jeanne
said Hugh
said Hugh
said Jeanne.

Hugh nodded his head. There was not much fear of his forgetting his
promise. Jeanne reminded him of it at intervals all that day, and when
the children kissed each other for good-night she whispered again
Cheri went to sleep with the best possible intentions as to
He had, first of all, intended not to go to sleep at all,
for his last glance out of the window before going to bed showed him
Monsieur Dudu on the terrace path, enjoying the moonlight apparently,
but, Hugh strongly suspected, bent on mischief, for his head was very
much on one side and his claw very much stuck out, in the way which
Jeanne declared made him look like a very impish raven indeed
thought Hugh to
himself as he lay down
And the little sleep turned out such a long one, that when poor Hugh
opened his eyes, lo and behold! it was to-morrow morning -- there was
Marcelline standing beside the bed, telling him it was time to get up,
he would be late for his tutor if he did not dress himself at once
exclaimed Hugh
Marcelline smiled what Jeanne called her funny smile
she said
With this hope Hugh had to be satisfied, and to satisfy also his little
cousin, who was at first quite disappointed that he had nothing
wonderful to tell her
she said
said Hugh, rather mortified
said Jeanne
And when night came, Hugh, partly perhaps because he was particularly
sleepy -- the day had been so much finer that the children had had some
splendid runs up and down the long terrace walk in the garden, and the
unusual exercise had made both of them very ready for bed when the time
came -- took Jeanne's advice, tucked himself up snugly and went off to
sleep without thinking of the moonlight, or the peacocks, or Dudu, or
anything. He slept so soundly, that when he awoke he thought it was
morning, and brighter morning than had hitherto greeted him since he
came to Jeanne's home
he said to himself, rubbing his eyes
for the whole room was flooded
with light -- such beautiful light -- bright and clear, and yet soft. No
wonder that Hugh rubbed his eyes in bewilderment -- it was not till he sat
up in bed and looked well about him, quite awake now, that he saw that
after all it was moonlight, not sunshine, which was illumining the old
tapestry room and everything which it contained in this wonderful way
thought Hugh
He leant forward to examine them better. They were standing -- just as
usual -- one on each side of the flight of steps leading up to the castle.
But as Hugh gazed at them it certainly seemed to him -- could it be his
fancy only?-- no, it _must_ be true -- that their long tails grew longer
and swept the ground more majestically -- then that suddenly -- fluff! a
sort of little wind seemed to rustle for an instant, and fluff! again,
the two peacocks had spread their tails, and now stood with them proudly
reared fan-like, at their backs, just like the real living birds that
Hugh had often admired in his grandfather's garden. Hugh was too much
amazed to rub his eyes again -- he could do nothing but stare, and stare
he did with all his might, but for a moment or two there was nothing
else to be seen. The peacocks stood still -- so still that Hugh now
began to doubt whether they had not always stood, tails spread, just as
he saw them now, and whether these same tails having ever drooped on the
ground was not altogether his fancy. A good deal puzzled, and a little
disappointed, he was turning away to look at another part of the
pictured walls, when again a slight flutter of movement caught his eyes.
What was about to happen this time?

&lsqb;Illustration
thought Hugh; but
no. One on each side of the castle door, the peacocks solemnly advanced
a few steps, then stood still -- quite still -- but yet with a certain
waiting look about them as if they were expecting some one or something.
They were not kept waiting long. The door of the castle opened slowly,
very slowly, the peacocks stepped still a little farther forward, and
out of the door of the castle -- the castle into which little Jeanne had
so longed to enter -- who, what, who _do_ you think came forth? It was
Dudu!

A small black figure, black from head to foot, head very much cocked on
one side, foot -- claw I should say -- stuck out like a walking-stick; he
stood between the peacocks, right in Hugh's view, just in front of the
door which had closed behind him, at the top of the high flight of
steps. He stood still with an air of great dignity, which seemed to say
And somehow Hugh felt that this unspoken address was
directed to _him_. Then, quietly and dignifiedly still, the raven
turned, first to the right, then to the left, and gravely bowed to the
two attendant peacocks, who each in turn saluted him respectfully and
withdrew a little farther back, on which Dudu began a very slow and
imposing progress down the steps. How he succeeded in making it so
imposing was the puzzle, for after all, his descent was undoubtedly a
series of hops, but all the same it was very majestic, and Hugh felt
greatly impressed, and watched him with bated breath
said Hugh to himself, half unconsciously
counting each step as the raven advanced
up to twenty-three Hugh counted on. And
he added, as Dudu, arrived at the foot of the stairs, looked
calmly about him for a minute or two, as if considering his next
movements. Then -- how he managed it Hugh could not tell -- he suddenly
stepped out of the tapestry landscape, and in another moment was
perched in his old place at the foot of Hugh's bed.

He looked at Hugh for an instant or two, gravely and scrutinisingly,
then bowed politely. Hugh, who was half sitting up in bed, bowed too,
but without speaking. He remembered Jeanne's charges to be very polite
to the raven, and thought it better to take no liberties with him, but
to wait patiently till he heard what Monsieur Dudu had to say. For
somehow it seemed to him a matter of course that the raven _could_
speak -- he was not the very least surprised when at last Dudu cleared his
throat pompously and began
Hugh hesitated
he exclaimed,
suddenly starting up
But the raven cocked his head on one side and looked at Hugh rather
sternly
he said
Hugh felt rather angry. Why should Dudu lay down the law to him in this
way
he began
he said sententiously
repeated Hugh in amazement
said Dudu
Hugh still looked puzzled, though rather less so
he said
Again the raven cocked his head on one side
he said
began Hugh
he added, turning to the wall, which was now only faintly
illumined by the moonlight, and looked no different from what Hugh had
often seen it in the daytime
said the raven
he added
said Hugh
he added, rather timidly
observed the raven, drily
And as he spoke he looked straight at Hugh, cocking his head on one side
more than ever
Hugh felt rather offended. It was natural that he should do so, I think.
At least I am sure that in his place I too should have felt hurt. He had
said nothing to make the raven speak in that disagreeably sarcastic way
he said to himself
But aloud he said nothing, so, great was his surprise, when the raven
coolly remarked in answer to his unspoken thoughts
replied Hugh, thinking it wiser, all things
considered, to get over his offended feelings
he went on, reflecting that Jeanne would be extremely
disappointed if he did not make the most of his present opportunity,
such as it was
said the raven
He held out his claw, on the end of which hung, by a narrow ribbon, two
round little cushions about the size of a macaroon biscuit. Hugh took
them, and examined them curiously. They were soft and elastic, what Hugh
in his own words would have described as
They seemed to be
made of some stuff like indiarubber, and were just the colour of his
skin
said Hugh
remarked
the raven
and before Hugh knew what he was
doing he found himself walking with the greatest ease straight up the
wall to where the long flight of steps to the tapestry castle began. On
the lowest steps the raven stopped a moment
asked Hugh
said the raven
_With_ them, however, nothing could have been easier. Hugh found himself
in no time at the top of the flight of steps in front of the door from
which the raven had come out. The peacocks, now he was close to them,
seemed to him larger than ordinary peacocks, but the brilliant colours
of their feathers, which he had noticed in the bright moonlight, had
disappeared. It was light enough for him to distinguish their figures,
but that was all
said the raven
asked Hugh
The peacocks, one on each side of the door, came forward solemnly,
saluting the raven with the greatest respect
said the raven, and to Hugh's surprise each peacock lifted up a
claw, and taking hold of a bell-rope, of which there were two, one on
each side of the door, pulled them vigorously. No sound ensued, but at
the instant there burst forth the same soft yet brilliant light which
had so delighted Hugh when he first awoke, and which he now discovered
to come not from the moon, still shining in gently at the window of the
tapestry room down below, but from those of the castle at whose door he
was standing. He had never before noticed how many windows it had.
Jeanne and he had only remarked the door at the top of the steps, but
now the light which flowed out from above him was so clear and brilliant
that it seemed as if the whole castle must be transparent. Hugh stood
in eager expectation of what was to happen next, and was on the point of
speaking to the raven, standing, as he thought, beside him, when a
sudden sound made him turn round. It was that of the castle door
opening, and at the same moment the two peacocks, coming forward, pushed
him gently, one at each side, so that Hugh found himself obliged to
enter. He was by no means unwilling to do so, but he gave one last look
round for his conductor. He was gone.

For about half a second Hugh felt a little frightened and bewildered
he said. But almost before he had time
to think the wish, what he saw before him so absorbed his attention that
he forgot everything else.

It was a long, long passage, high in the roof, though narrow of course
in comparison with its length, but wide enough for Hugh -- for Hugh and
Jeanne hand-in-hand even -- to walk along with perfect comfort and great
satisfaction, for oh, it was so prettily lighted up! You have, I
daresay, children, often admired in London or Paris, or some great town,
the rows of gas lamps lighting up at night miles of some very long
street. Fancy those lights infinitely brighter and clearer, and yet
softer than any lamps you ever saw, and each one of a different colour,
from the richest crimson to the softest pale blue, and you will have
some idea how pretty the long corridor before him looked to Hugh. He
stepped along delightedly, as well he might
he said to himself
Where did the corridor lead to? He ran on and on for some time without
thinking much about this, so interested was he in observing the lamps
and the pretty way in which the tints were arranged; but after a while
he began to find it a little monotonous, especially when he noticed that
at long intervals the colours repeated themselves, the succession of
shades beginning again from time to time
thought Hugh
He did so -- on the ground, there was nothing else to sit on -- and then a
very queer thing happened. The lamps took to moving instead of him, so
that when he looked up at them the impression was just the same as when
he himself had been running along. The colours succeeded each other in
the same order, and Hugh began to wonder whether his eyes were not
deceiving him in some queer way
he said to himself
He hastened on, and was beginning really to think of turning back again
and running the other way, when, all of a sudden -- everything in this
queer tapestry world he had got into seemed to happen all of a sudden -- a
little bell was heard to ring, clear and silvery, but not very loud, and
in another instant -- oh dear!-- all the pretty coloured lamps were
extinguished, and poor Hugh was left standing all in the dark. Where he
was he did not know, what to do he did not know; had he not been eight
years old on his last birthday I almost think he would have begun to
cry. He felt, too, all of a sudden so cold, even though before he had
got out of bed he had taken the precaution to put on his red flannel
dressing-gown, and till now had felt quite pleasantly warm. It was only
for half a moment, however, that the idea of crying came over him
he said to himself by way
of keeping up his own courage
He felt his way along bravely for a few minutes, and more bravely still
was forcing back his tears, when a sound caught his ears. It was a
cock's crow, sharp and shrill, but yet sounding as if outside the place
where he was. Still it greatly encouraged Hugh, who continued to make
his way on in the dark, much pleased to find that the farther he got the
nearer and clearer sounded the crow, repeated every few seconds. And at
last he found himself at the end of the passage -- he knew it must be so,
for in front of him the way was barred, and _quite_ close to him now
apparently, sounded the cock's shrill call. He pushed and pulled -- for
some time in vain. If there were a door at this end of the passage, as
surely there must be -- who would make a passage and hang it so
beautifully with lamps if it were to lead to nowhere?-- it was a door of
which the handle was very difficult to find
exclaimed Hugh, half in despair
sounded the cock's crow
it seemed
to say, encouragingly. And at last Hugh's hand came in contact with a
little round knob, and as he touched it, all at once everything about
him was lighted up again with the same clear, lovely light coming from
the thousands of lamps down the long corridor behind him. But Hugh never
turned to look at them -- what he saw in front of him was so delightful
and surprising.

The door had opened, Hugh found himself standing at the top of two or
three steps, which apparently were the back approach to the strange long
passage which he had entered from the tapestry room. Outside it was
light too, but not with the wonderful bright radiance that had streamed
out from the castle at the other side. Here it was just very soft, very
clear moonlight. There were trees before him -- almost it seemed as if he
were standing at the entrance of a forest. But, strange to say, they
were not winter trees, such as he had left behind him in the garden of
Jeanne's house -- bare and leafless, or if covered at all, covered only
with their Christmas dress of snow and icicles -- these trees were clothed
with the loveliest foliage, fresh and green and feathery, which no
winter's storms or nipping frosts had ever come near to blight. And in
the little space between the door where Hugh stood and these wonderful
trees was drawn up, as if awaiting him, the prettiest, queerest, most
delicious little carriage that ever was seen. It was open; the cushions
with which it was lined were of rose-coloured plush -- not velvet, I
think; at least if they _were_ velvet, it was of some marvellous kind
that couldn't he rubbed the wrong way, that felt exquisitely smooth and
soft whichever way you stroked it; the body of the carriage was shaped
something like a cockle-shell; you could lie back in it so beautifully
without cricking or straining your neck or shoulders in the least; and
there was just room for two. One of these two was already comfortably
settled -- shall I tell you who it was now, or shall I keep it for a
tit-bit at the end when I have quite finished about the carriage? Yes,
that will be better. For the funniest things about the carriage have to
be told yet. Up on the box, in the coachman's place, you understand,
holding with an air of the utmost importance in one claw a pair of
yellow silk reins, his tufted head surmounted by a gold-laced livery
hat, which, however, must have had a hole in the middle to let the tuft
through, for there it was in all its glory waving over the hat like a
dragoon's plume, sat, or stood rather, Houpet; while, standing behind,
holding on each with one claw to the back of the carriage, like real
footmen, were the two other chickens. They, too, had gold-laced hats and
an air of solemn propriety, not _quite_ so majestic as Houpet's, for in
their case the imposing tuft was wanting, but still very fine of its
kind. And who do you think were the horses? for there were two -- or, to
speak more correctly, there were no horses at all, but in the place
where they should have been were harnessed, tandem-fashion, not abreast,
Nibble the guinea-pig and Grignan the tortoise! Nibble next to the
carriage, Grignan, of all creatures in the world, as leader.

On sight of them Hugh began to laugh, so that he forgot to look more
closely at the person in the carriage, whose face he had not yet seen,
as it was turned the other way. But the sound of his laughing was too
infectious to be resisted -- the small figure began to shake all over, and
at last could contain itself no longer. With a shout of merriment little
Jeanne, for it was she, sprang out of the carriage and threw her arms
round Hugh's neck
she said
Hugh felt too utterly astonished to reply. He just stared at Jeanne as
if he could not believe his own eyes. And Jeanne did not look surprised
at all! That, to Hugh, was the most surprising part of the whole
he exclaimed
replied Jeanne, laughing again
asked Hugh
Jeanne laughed again, Hugh felt a little impatient
he said
said Jeanne
said Hugh
exclaimed Jeanne
Hugh got in, willingly enough, though still he would have preferred to
have some explanation from Jeanne of all the strange things that were
happening
said Jeanne, when they had both nestled down among
the delicious soft cushions of the carriage
said Hugh
He spoke rather, just a very little, grumpily, but Jeanne, rather to his
surprise, did not laugh at him this time. Instead, she looked up in his
face earnestly, with a strange deep look in her eyes
she said
dreamily
she went on, with a
complete change of voice, her eyes dancing merrily as if they had never
looked grave in their life
Off they set -- they went nice and fast certainly, but not so fast but
that the children could admire the beautiful feathery foliage as they
passed. They drove through the forest -- for the trees that Hugh had so
admired were those of a forest -- on and on, swiftly but yet smoothly;
never in his life had Hugh felt any motion so delightful
exclaimed Hugh
said Jeanne
Hugh looked straight before him. It was as Jeanne had said. The trees
grew thick and close in front, only dividing -- melting away like a
mist -- as the quaint little carriage approached them.

Hugh looked at them with fresh surprise
he said
said Jeanne
Hugh "looked" with all his eyes. What Jeanne called "changing" was a
very wonderful process. The trees, which hitherto had been of a very
bright, delicate green, began gradually to pale in colour, becoming
first greenish-yellow, then canary colour, then down to the purest
white. And from white they grew into silver, sparkling like innumerable
diamonds, and then slowly altered into a sort of silver-grey, gradually
rising into grey-blue, then into a more purple-blue, till they reached
the richest corn-flower shade. Then began another series of lessening
shades, which again, passing through a boundary line of gold, rose by
indescribable degrees to deep yet brilliant crimson. It would be
impossible to name all the variations through which they passed. I use
the names of the colours and shades which are familiar to you,
children, but the very naming any shade gives an unfair idea of the
marvellous delicacy with which one tint melted into another,-- as well
try to divide and mark off the hues of a dove's breast, or of the sky at
sunset. And all the time the trees themselves were of the same form and
foliage as at first, the leaves -- or fronds I feel inclined to call them,
for they were more like very, very delicate ferns or ferny grass than
leaves -- with which each branch was luxuriantly clothed, seeming to bathe
themselves in each new colour as the petals of a flower welcome a flood
of brilliant sunshine
said Hugh, with a deep sigh of pleasure
said
Jeanne
asked Hugh
asked Hugh
said Jeanne
but before she had time to say more
they suddenly came out of the enchanted forest; in an instant every
trace of the feathery trees had disappeared. Houpet pulled up his
steeds, the two chickens got down from behind, and stood one on each
side of the carriage door, waiting apparently for their master and
mistress to descend. And plainer and nearer than before came the sound
of fast-rushing water
said Hugh
said Jeanne again, looking round her a little timidly
said Hugh
said Jeanne, quite brightly again
It" was a wide, far-stretching plain, over which the moonlight shone
softly. Far or near not a shrub or tree was to be seen, yet it was not
like a desert, for the ground was entirely covered with most beautiful
moss, so fresh and green, even by the moonlight, that it was difficult
to believe the hot sunshine had ever glared upon it. And here and there,
all over this great plain -- all over it, at least, as far as the children
could see -- rose suddenly from the ground innumerable jets of water, not
so much like fountains as like little waterfalls turned the wrong way;
they rushed upwards with such surprising force and noise, and fell to
the earth again in numberless tiny threads much more gently and softly
than they left it
said Hugh
said Jeanne, preparing to get down.
But before she could do so, Houpet gave a shrill, rather peremptory
crow, and Jeanne stopped short in surprise
she said.

By way of reply, Houpet hopped down from his box, and in some
wonderfully clever way of his own, before the children could see what he
was about, had unharnessed Nibble and Grignan. Then the three arranged
themselves in a little procession, and drew up a few steps from the side
of the carriage where still stood the chicken-footmen. Though they could
not speak, there was no mistaking their meaning
said Hugh; and as he spoke he jumped
out of the carriage, and Jeanne after him.

&lsqb;ONWARDS QUIETLY STEPPED THE LITTLE PROCESSION
THE TWO SWANS.


Onwards quietly stepped the little procession, Houpet first, his tuft
waving as usual, with a comfortable air of importance and satisfaction;
then Nibble and Grignan abreast -- hand-in-hand, I was going to have said;
next Hugh and Jeanne; with the two attendant chickens behind bringing up
the rear
said Hugh in a low voice.
Somehow the soft light; the strange loneliness of the great plain,
where, now that they were accustomed to it, the rushing of the
numberless water-springs seemed to be but one single, steady sound; the
solemn behaviour of their curious guides, altogether, had subdued the
children's spirits. Jeanne said no more about
yet she did
not seem the least frightened or depressed; she was only quiet and
serious
repeated Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne, not at all surprised, and as if wall-climbers
were no more uncommon than goloshes
said Hugh, importantly
he stopped
abruptly, for a sudden crow from Houpet had brought all the party to a
standstill. At first the children could not make out why their guide had
stopped here -- there was nothing to be seen. But pressing forward a few
steps to where Houpet stood, Hugh saw, imbedded in the moss at his feet,
a stone with a ring in it, just like those which one reads of in the
_Arabian Nights_. Houpet stood at the edge of the stone eyeing it
gravely, and somehow he managed to make Hugh understand that he was to
lift it. Nothing loth, but rather doubtful as to whether he would be
strong enough, the boy leant forward to reach the ring, first
whispering, however, to Jeanne
Jeanne nodded, but looked rather anxious
she said
Hugh made no objection to her proposal, so Jeanne put her arms round his
waist, and when he gave a great pug to the ring she gave a great pug to
him. The first time it was no use, the stone did not move in the least
said Hugh, and try again they did. But no -- the second try
succeeded no better than the first -- and the children looked at each
other in perplexity. Suddenly there was a movement among the animals,
who had all been standing round watching the children's attempts; Jeanne
felt a sort of little pecking tug at her skirts -- how it came about I
cannot say, but I think I forgot to tell you that, unlike Hugh in his
red flannel dressing gown, _she_ was arrayed for their adventures in her
best Sunday pelisse, trimmed with fur -- and, looking round, lo and
behold! there was Houpet holding on to her with his beak, then came
Nibble, his two front paws embracing Houpet's feathered body, Grignan
behind him again, clutching with his mouth at Nibble's fur, and the two
chickens at the end holding on to Grignan and each other in some
indescribable and marvellous way. It was, for all the world, as if they
were preparing for the finish-up part of the game of
or for that of
The sight was so comical that it was all the children could do to keep
their gravity, they succeeded in doing so, however, fearing that it
might hurt the animals' feelings to seem to make fun of their well-meant
efforts
whispered Hugh
returned Jeanne
said Hugh
and with "three" he
gave a tremendous tug -- a much more tremendous tug than was required,
for, to his surprise, the stone yielded at once without the slightest
resistance, and back they all fell, one on the top of the other, Hugh,
Jeanne, Houpet, Nibble, Grignan, and the two chickens! But none of them
were any the worse, and with the greatest eagerness to see what was to
be seen where the stone had been, up jumped Hugh and Jeanne and ran
forward to the spot
said Jeanne, half out of breath
And, wonderful to relate, so there was! The children could hardly
believe their eyes, when below them they saw the most tempting little
spiral staircase of white stone or marble steps, with a neat little
brass balustrade at one side. It looked quite light all the way down,
though of course they could distinguish nothing at the bottom, as the
corkscrew twists of the staircase entirely filled up the space.

Houpet hopped forward and stood at the top of the steps crowing softly
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
So down he went, Jeanne following close after
said Jeanne,
rather anxiously. But just as she uttered the words a rather shrill crow
made both Hugh and her stop short and look up to the top. They saw
Houpet and the others standing round the edge of the hole. Houpet gave
another crow, in which the two chickens joined him, and then suddenly
the stone was shut down -- the two children found themselves alone in this
strange place, leading to they knew not where! Jeanne gave a little
cry -- Hugh, too, for a moment was rather startled, but he soon recovered
himself
he said
So, in a rather queer fashion, they clambered down the long staircase.
By the time they got to its end they were really quite tired of turning
round and round so many times. But now the view before them was so
pleasant that they forgot all their troubles.

They had found a little door at the foot of the stair, which opened
easily. They passed through it, and there lay before them a beautiful
expanse of water surrounded by hills; the door which had closed behind
them seemed on this side to have been cut out of the turf of the hill,
and was all but invisible. It was light, as Hugh had said, but not with
the light of either sun or moon; a soft radiance was over everything,
but whence it came they could not tell. The hills on each side of the
water, which was more like a calmly flowing river than a lake, prevented
their seeing very far, but close to the shore by which they stood a
little boat was moored -- a little boat with seats for two, and one light
pair of oars
said Jeanne
They were soon settled in it, and Hugh, though he had only rowed once or
twice before in his life, found it very easy and pleasant, and they went
over the water swiftly and smoothly. After a while the hills approached
more nearly, gradually the broad river dwindled to a mere stream, so
narrow and small at last, that even their tiny boat could go no farther.
Hugh was forced to leave off rowing
he said
Jeanne was peering forward: just before them the brook, or what still
remained of it, almost disappeared in a narrow little gorge between the
hills
said she
said Hugh
So out the children got -- Jeanne
pulled in front, Hugh pushed behind. It was so very light that there was
no difficulty as to its weight; only the gorge was so narrow that at
last the boat stuck fast
said Hugh
cried Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
Hugh stood still and considered
he said at last
And before Jeanne could ask him what he meant, he gave three clear,
short whistles, and then waited to see the effect.

It was a most unexpected one. Hugh had anticipated nothing else than the
sudden appearance, somehow and somewhere, of Monsieur Dudu himself, as
large as life -- possibly, in this queer country of surprises, where they
found themselves, a little larger! When and how he would appear Hugh was
perfectly at a loss to imagine -- he might fly down from the sky; he
might spring up from the water; he might just suddenly stand before them
without their having any idea how he had come. Hugh laughed to himself
at the thought of Jeanne's astonishment, and after all it was Jeanne who
first drew his attention to what was really happening
she cried
Hugh's attention had been so taken up in staring about in every
direction for the raven that he had not noticed the sound which Jeanne
had heard, and which now increased every moment.

It was a soft, swishy sound -- as if innumerable little boats were making
their way through water, or as if innumerable little fairies were
bathing themselves, only every instant it came nearer and nearer, till
at last, on every side of the boat in which the children were still
standing, came creeping up from below lots and lots and _lots_ of small,
bright green frogs, who clambered over the sides and arranged themselves
in lines along the edges in the most methodical and orderly manner.
Jeanne gave a scream of horror, and darted across the boat to where Hugh
was standing
she cried
Cheri himself, though not quite so frightened as Jeanne, was not much
pleased with the result of his summons to the raven
he said
said Jeanne, a very little comforted
She forgot her fears in the interest of watching them; Hugh, too, stared
with all his eyes at the frogs, who, arranged in regular lines round the
edge of the boat, began working away industriously at something which,
for a minute or two, the children could not make out. At last Jeanne
called out eagerly
So it was; each frog threw over several threads which he seemed to
unwind from his body; these threads were caught by something invisible
down below, and twisted round and round several times, till at last they
became as firm and strong as a fine twine. And when, apparently, the
frogs considered that they had made cables enough, they settled
themselves down, each firmly on his two hind legs, still holding by the
rope with their front ones, and then -- in another moment -- to the
children's great delight, they felt the boat beginning to move. It moved
on smoothly -- almost as smoothly as when on the water -- there were no jogs
or tugs, as might have been the case if it had been pulled by two or
three coarse, strong ropes, for all the hundreds of tiny cables pulling
together made one even force
cried Jeanne
observed Hugh.

Jeanne shrugged her shoulders. She was not over and above sure of Dudu
even now.

The boat moved along for some time; the pass between the hills was dark
and gloomy, and though the water got wider, as Jeanne had seen, it would
not for some distance have been possible for the children to row. After
a time it suddenly grew much lighter; they came out from the narrow pass
and found themselves but a few yards from a sheet of still water with
trees all round it -- a sort of mountain lake it seemed, silent and
solitary, and reflecting back from its calm bosom the soft, silvery,
even radiance which since they came out from the door on the hillside
had been the children's only light.

And in the middle of this lake lay a little island -- a perfect nest of
trees, whose long drooping branches hung down into the water
said Jeanne eagerly, for by this
time the frogs had drawn them to the edge of the lake; there could no
longer be any difficulty in rowing for themselves
said Hugh, standing up. He
would have taken off his cap if he had had one on; as it was, he could
only bow politely.

As he did so, each frog turned round so as to face him, and each gave a
little bob of the head, which, though not very graceful, was evidently
meant as an acknowledgment of Hugh's courtesy
whispered Hugh
Jeanne, who all this time had been sitting with her feet tucked up under
her, showed no inclination to move
she said
she
added
The frogs bowed again, which was very considerate of them; then suddenly
there seemed a movement among them, those at the end of the boat drew
back a little, and a frog, whom the children had not hitherto specially
observed, came forward and stood in front of the others. He was bigger,
his colour was a brighter green, and his eyes more brilliantly red. He
stood up on his hind legs and bowed politely. Then, after clearing his
throat, of which there was much need, for even with this precaution it
sounded very croaky, he addressed the children
he began
whispered Jeanne
said Jeanne in a whisper
continued the frog with a wave of his
as Jeanne
afterwards called them
repeated Hugh, rather puzzled
The frog bowed
he said
whispered Jeanne
agreed Hugh
said Jeanne
began Hugh
replied the frog
pompously
seeing that Hugh was preparing to take up the oars
whispered Jeanne in a terrible fright
said Hugh
said the frog, waving his hands
in an elegantly persuasive manner
in a brisk, authoritative
tone
Jeanne shivered, but nevertheless could not help watching with
curiosity. Scores of little tadpoles came hopping up the sides of the
boat, each dozen or so of them carrying among them large water-lily
leaves, on each of which curious and dainty-looking little cakes and
bonbons were arranged. The first that was presented to Jeanne contained
neat little biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece, of a tempting
rich brown colour
said the frog
Jeanne took one and found it very good. She would have taken another,
but already a second tray-ful or leaf-ful was before her, with
pinky-looking balls
remarked the frog,
with a self-satisfied smile
said Hugh
whispered Jeanne, looking rather
doubtfully at the succession of leaf trays that continued to appear. She
nibbled away at some of the least extraordinary-looking cakes, which the
frog informed her were made from the pith of rushes roasted and ground
down, and then flavoured with essence of marsh marigold, and found them
nearly as nice as macaroons. Then, having eaten quite as much as they
wanted, the tadpoles handed to each a leaf of the purest water, which
they drank with great satisfaction
said Hugh
said the frog
and, as by this time all the frogs that had been
sitting round the edge of the boat had disappeared, Hugh took the oars
and paddled away
JEAN INGELOW
said Hugh,
resting on his oars half-way to the island. But there was no answer. The
frog had disappeared
he
said
said
Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
asked Hugh
said Jeanne
she added with profound conviction
said Hugh
They sat perfectly still to listen, but for a minute or two the sound
which had caught Hugh's attention was not repeated. Everything about
them was silent, except that now and then a soft faint breeze seemed to
flutter across the water, slightly rippling its surface as it passed.
The strange, even light which had shone over all the scene ever since
the children had stepped out at the hillside door had now grown paler:
it was not now bright enough to distinguish more than can be seen by an
autumn twilight. The air was fresh and clear, though not the least cold;
the drooping forms of the low-hanging branches of the island trees gave
the children a melancholy feeling when they glanced in that direction
said Jeanne
said Hugh
It" was a low sort of "call" which seemed to run round the shores of
the lake like a preliminary note, and then completely died away.
Instantly began from all sides the most curious music that Hugh and
Jeanne had ever heard. It was croaking, but croaking in unison and
regular time, and harsh as it was, there was a very strange charm about
it -- quite impossible to describe. It sounded pathetic at times, and at
times monotonous, and yet inspiriting, like the beating of a drum; and
the children listened to it with actual enjoyment. It went on for a good
while, and then stopped as suddenly as it had begun; and then again,
after some minutes of perfect silence, it recommenced in a low and
regular chant -- if such a word can be used for croaking -- a steady,
regular croak, croak, as if an immense number of harsh-sounding
instruments were giving forth one note in such precise tune and measure
that the harshness was softened and lost by the union of sound. It grew
lower and lower, seeming almost to be about to die altogether away,
when, from another direction -- from the tree-shaded island in the centre
of the lake -- rose, low and faint at first, gathering strange strength as
it mounted ever higher and higher, the song of the swan.

The children listened breathlessly and in perfect silence to the
wonderful notes which fell on their ears -- notes which no words of mine
could describe, for in themselves they were words, telling of suffering
and sorrow, of beautiful things and sad things, of strange fantastic
dreams, of sunshine and flowers and summer days, of icy winds from the
snow-clad hills, and days of dreariness and solitude. Each and all came
in their turn; but, at the last, all melted, all grew rather, into one
magnificent song of bliss and triumph, of joyful tenderness and
brilliant hope, too pure and perfect to be imagined but in a dream. And
as the last clear mellow notes fell on the children's ears, a sound of
wings seemed to come with them, and gazing ever more intently towards
the island they saw rising upwards the pure white snow-like
bird -- upwards and upwards, ever higher, till at last, with the sound of
its own joyous song, it faded and melted into the opal radiance of the
calm sky above.

For long the children gazed after it -- a spot of light seemed to linger
for some time in the sky just where it had disappeared -- almost, to their
fancy, as if the white swan was resting there, again to return to earth.
But it was not so. Slowly, like the light of a dying star, the
brightness faded; there was no longer a trace of the swan's radiant
flight; again a soft low breeze, like a farewell sigh, fluttered across
the lake, and the children withdrew their eyes from the sky and looked
at each other
said Hugh
said Jeanne
Jeanne shook her little head in perplexity
she said
said Hugh
added Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said the queer croaking voice of the frog, suddenly reappearing
on the edge of the boat
he repeated, with a strange
solemnity
He waved his hands in adieu, and hopped away
said Jeanne, after a short silence
said Hugh
Jeanne seemed to fall asleep in a moment when she lay down. Hugh paddled
on quietly, as he had said, thinking dreamily of the queer things they
had seen and heard in this nameless country inside the tapestry door. He
did not feel troubled as to how they were to get back again; he had
great faith in Dudu, and felt sure it would all come right. But
gradually he too began to feel very sleepy; the dip of the oars and the
sound of little Jeanne's regular breathing seemed to keep time together
in a curious way. And at last the oars slipped from Hugh's hold; he lay
down beside Jeanne, letting the boat drift; he was so _very_ sleepy, he
could keep up no more.

But after a minute or two when, not _quite_ asleep, he lay listening to
the soft breathing of the little girl, it seemed to him he heard still
the gentle dip of the oars. The more he listened, the more sure he
became that it was so, and at last his curiosity grew so great that it
half overcame his drowsiness. He opened his eyes just enough to look up.
Yes, he was right, the boat was gliding steadily along, the oars were
doing their work, and who do you think were the rowers? Dudu on one
side, Houpet on the other, rowing away as cleverly as if they had never
done anything else in their lives, steadying themselves on one claw,
rowing with the other. Hugh did not feel the least surprised; he smiled
sleepily, and turned over quite satisfied
he said to himself: and that was all he
thought about it
was the next thing he heard, or
remembered hearing.

Hugh half sat up and rubbed his eyes.

Where was he?

Not in the boat, there was no sound of oars, the light that met his gaze
was not that of the strange country where Jeanne and he had had all
these adventures, it was just clear ordinary moonlight; and as for where
he was, he was lying on the floor of the tapestry room close to the part
of the wall where stood, or hung, the castle with the long flight of
steps, which Jeanne and he had so wished to enter. And from the other
side of the tapestry -- from inside the castle, one might almost say -- came
the voice he had heard in his sleep, the voice which seemed to have
awakened him
it said
cried Hugh, starting to his feet.
But there was no reply.

Hugh looked all round. The room seemed just the same as usual, and if he
had looked out of the window, though this he did not know, he would have
seen the old raven on the terrace marching about, and, in his usual
philosophical way, failing the sunshine, enjoying the moonlight; while
down in the chickens' house, in the corner of the yard, Houpet and his
friends were calmly roosting; fat little Nibble soundly sleeping in his
cage, cuddled up in the hay; poor, placid Grignan reposing in his usual
corner under the laurel bush. All these things Hugh would have seen, and
would no doubt have wondered much at them. But though neither tired nor
cold, he was still sleepy, very sleepy, so, after another stare all
round, he decided that he would defer further inquiry till the morning,
and in the meantime follow the advice of Jeanne's farewell
And
he said to himself, as he climbed up into his
comfortable bed
It was rather queer when to-morrow morning came -- when he woke to find it
had come, at least; it was rather queer to see everything looking just
the same as on other to-morrow mornings. Hugh had not time to think very
much about it, for it had been Marcelline's knock at the door that had
wakened him, and she told him it was rather later than usual. Hugh,
however, was so eager to see Jeanne and talk over with her their
wonderful adventures that he needed no hurrying. But, to his surprise,
when he got to Jeanne's room, where as usual their "little breakfast"
was prepared for them on the table by the fire, Jeanne was seated on her
low chair, drinking her coffee in her every-day manner, not the least
different from what she always was, not in any particular hurry to see
him, nor, apparently, with anything particular to say
she said, merrily
Hugh looked at her; there was no mischief in her face; she simply meant
what she said. In his astonishment, Hugh rubbed his eyes and then stared
at her again
he said, quite bewildered
she repeated
and in her turn Jeanne seemed surprised.

Hugh looked round; old Marcelline had left the room
he said
said Jeanne, seemingly more and more puzzled
Jeanne opened wide her eyes
she said
Hugh was so hurt and disappointed that he nearly began to cry
he said
and he turned away
quite chilled and perplexed.

Jeanne ran after him and threw her arms round his neck
she said
Hugh looked into her dark eyes with his earnest blue ones
he said
Jeanne stared at him so earnestly that she quite frowned
she said, and then she stopped
So they kissed and made friends. But still it seemed very queer to Hugh.
Till now Jeanne had always been eager to talk about the tapestry castle,
and full of fancies about Dudu and Houpet and the rest of the animals,
and anxious to hear Hugh's dreams. Now she seemed perfectly content with
her every-day world, delighted with a new and beautiful china
dinner-service which her godmother had sent her, and absorbed in cooking
all manner of wonderful dishes for a grand dolls' feast, for which she
was sending invitations to all her dolls, young and old, ugly and
pretty, armless, footless, as were some, in the perfection of Parisian
toilettes as were others. For she had, like most only daughters, an
immense collection of dolls, though she was not as fond of them as many
little girls
said Hugh, in a slightly aggrieved tone of
voice. Lessons were over, and the children were busy at the important
business of cooking the feast. Hugh didn't mind the cooking; he had even
submitted to a paper cap which Jeanne had constructed for him on the
model of that of the "chef" downstairs; he found great consolation in
the beating up an egg which Marcelline had got for them as a great
treat, and immense satisfaction in watching the stewing, in one of
Jeanne's toy pans on the nursery fire, of a preparation of squashed
prunes, powdered chocolate, and bread crumbs, which was to represent a
I really do not remember what
Hugh repeated
said Jeanne
Jeanne burst out laughing at the idea, and laughed so heartily that Hugh
could not help laughing too. But all the same he said to himself
And as Hugh, for all his fancifulness, was a good deal of a philosopher,
he made up his mind to amuse himself happily with little Jeanne as she
was. The feast was a great success. The dolls behaved irreproachably,
with which their owner was rather inclined to twit Hugh, when, just at
the end of the banquet, greatly to his satisfaction, a certain
Mademoiselle Zephyrine, a blonde with flaxen ringlets and turquoise
blue eyes, suddenly toppled over, something having no doubt upset her
equilibrium, and fell flat on her nose on the table
cried Jeanne, greatly concerned
and, rushing forward to her assistance, worse results followed. Mesdames
Lili and Josephine, two middle-aged ladies somewhat the worse for wear,
overcome by the distressing spectacle, _or_ by the sleeve of Jeanne's
dress as she leant across them, fell off their chairs too -- one, like
Zephyrine, on to the table, the other on to the floor, dragging down
with her the plateful of ragout in front of her, while her friend's
sudden descent upon the table completed the general knockings over and
spillings which Zephyrine had begun
cried Jeanne
said Hugh
But, seeing that poor Jeanne was really in tears at this unfortunate
termination of her entertainment, he left off teasing her, and having
succeeded in rescuing some remains of the good things, they sat down on
the floor together and ate them up very amicably
said Jeanne meditatively,
when she had munched the last crumbs of the snipped-up almonds, which
were supposed to represent some very marvellous dish
she added, as a parenthesis
she exclaimed, as the old nurse just then came into the
room
asked Marcelline,
looking curiously at Hugh
said Hugh
said Marcelline, smiling
Hugh did not answer. He was wondering to himself what Marcelline really
meant; whether she knew of the wonders concealed behind the tapestry, or
was only teasing him a little in the kind but queer way she sometimes
did
he said suddenly at last
said Marcelline
said Hugh
began
Marcelline, but Jeanne interrupted her
she asked.

Marcelline smiled again her funny smile
she said
exclaimed Jeanne
said Marcelline
said Hugh, looking up suddenly
What she said made him remember Dudu's remark about Jeanne the night
before, that she was far, far away, and he began to feel that Marcelline
understood much that she seldom alluded to.

But Jeanne took it up differently. She jumped on to Marcelline's knee
and pretended to beat her
she said
Marcelline repeated
insisted Jeanne
Hugh said nothing, but he looked up in Marcelline's face with his grave
blue eyes, and the old woman smiled again. She seemed as if she was
going to speak, when just then a servant came upstairs to say that
Jeanne's mother wished the children to go downstairs to her for a
little. Jeanne jumped up, delighted to welcome any change
she said, as she
ran out of the room
said Marcelline, half to
herself, half to Hugh, who was following his cousin more slowly. He
stopped for a moment
he repeated
the nurse replied
said Hugh, half timidly
said Marcelline
But when Hugh would have asked her more she would not reply, only smiled
and shook her head. So the boy went slowly downstairs after Jeanne,
wondering what old Marcelline could mean, half puzzled and half pleased
he said to himself
CHAPTER VII WINGS AND CATS
CHARLES LAMB.


Some days went on, and nothing more was said by the children about the
adventures which had so puzzled poor Hugh. After a while he seemed to
lose the wish to talk about them to little Jeanne; or rather, he began
to feel as if he could not, that the words would not come, or that if
they did, they would not tell what he wanted. He thought about the
strange things he had seen very often, but it was as if he had read of
them rather than as if he had seen and heard them, or as if they had
happened to some one else. Whenever he saw Dudu and Houpet and the rest
of the pets, he looked at them at first in a half dreamy way, wondering
if they too were puzzled about it all, or if, being really fairies, they
did not find anything to puzzle them! The only person (for, after all,
he could often not prevent himself from looking upon all the animals as
persons)-- the only person who he somehow felt sure _did_ understand him,
was Marcelline, and this was a great satisfaction. She said nothing; she
almost never even smiled in what Jeanne called her "funny" way; but
there was just a very tiny little undersound in the tone of her voice
sometimes, a little wee smile in her eyes more than on her lips, that
told Hugh that, fairy or no fairy, old Marcelline knew all about it, and
it pleased him to think so.

One night when Hugh was warmly tucked up in bed Marcelline came in as
usual before he went to sleep to put out his light
he
said
said Marcelline
asked Hugh
said the old nurse. She had a funny
way of sometimes answering a question by asking another
said Hugh
He half sat up in bed, resting his head on his elbow, which was leaning
on the pillow, and looking up in the old woman's face with his earnest
blue eyes. Marcelline shook her head slowly
she said
said Hugh
said Marcelline
She smiled now, right out, and was turning away with the light in her
hand, when Hugh called after her
said the old nurse
And, a little inclined to be _im_patient, Hugh was nevertheless obliged
to shut his eyes and go to sleep. There was no moonlight _that_ night
any way.

But not many nights after there came a great surprise.

Curiously enough Hugh had gone to sleep _that_ night without any thought
of tapestry adventures. He and Jeanne had been very merry indeed; they
had been dressing up, and playing delightful tricks -- such as tapping at
the salon door, and on being told to come in, making their appearance
like two very, very old peasants, hobbling along on sticks -- Jeanne with
a cap and little knitted shawl of Marcelline's, Hugh with a blouse and
cotton nightcap, so that Jeanne's mother quite jumped at first sight of
the quaint little figures. Then Jeanne dressed up like a fairy, and
pretended to turn Hugh into a guinea-pig, and they got Nibble up into
the nursery, and Hugh hid in a cupboard, and tried to make his voice
sound as if it came from Nibble, and the effect of his ventriloquism was
so comical that the children laughed till they actually rolled on the
floor. And they had hardly got over the laughing -- though Marcelline did
her best to make them sit still for half an hour or so before going to
bed -- when it was time to say good-night and compose themselves to sleep
said Hugh
said Marcelline, with a smile, as she went off with
the light.

And strange to say, hardly had she shut the door when Hugh did fall
asleep -- soundly asleep. He knew no more about who he was, or where he
was, or anything -- he just slept as soundly as a little top, without
dreaming or starting in the least, for -- dear me, I don't know for how
long!-- any way it must have been for several hours, when -- in the strange
sudden way in which once or twice before it had happened to him to awake
in this curious tapestry room, he opened his eyes as if startled by an
electric shock, and gazed out before him, as much awake as if he had
never been asleep in his life.

What had awakened him, and what did he see? He could hardly have told
what had awakened him but for what he _now_ saw and heard. A voice, a
very well-known little voice, was speaking to him
it
said
And
there before him stood little Jeanne -- but Jeanne as he had never seen
her before. She seemed all glistening and shining -- her dress was of some
kind of sparkling white, and round her waist was a lovely silver
girdle -- her sleeves too were looped up with silver bands, and, prettiest
of all, two snow-white wings were fastened to her shoulders. She looked
like a fairy queen, or like a silvery bird turned into a little girl.
And in her hand she held another pair of wings exactly like her own.

Hugh gazed at her
he said
Jeanne laughed merrily
she said
She gave her head a little toss, which made Hugh look at it. And now he
noticed that on it she wore something very funny indeed, which at first,
being black -- for Jeanne's hair, you know, was black too -- had not caught
his attention. At first he thought it was some kind of black silk hood
or cap, such as he had seen worn by some of the peasants in Switzerland,
but looking again -- no, it was nothing of the kind -- the head-dress had a
head of its own, and as Hugh stared, it cocked it pertly on one side in
a way Hugh would have known again anywhere. Yes, it was Dudu, sitting on
Jeanne's smooth little head as comfortably as if he had always been
intended to serve the purpose of a bonnet
exclaimed Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh, quite sitting up in bed by this time, but still
a good deal puzzled
said Jeanne
The word made Hugh glance towards the window, for, for the first time he
began to wonder how it was his room was so bright. Yes, it was streaming
in, in a beautiful flood, and the tapestry on the walls had taken again
the lovely tints which by daylight were no longer visible.

Hugh sprang out of bed
he said, touching the wings
which Jeanne held
she replied
She slipped them over his head -- they seemed to be fastened to a band,
and in a moment they had fitted themselves perfectly into their place.
They were so light that Hugh was hardly conscious of them, and yet he
could move them about -- backwards and forwards, swiftly or slowly, just
as he chose -- and as easily as he could move his arms. Hugh was extremely
pleased with them, but he looked at his little night-gown with sudden
dismay
he observed
said Jeanne
He did so, and therefore could not see what Jeanne did, but he felt a
sort of soft puff fly all over him, and opening his eyes again at
Jeanne's bidding, saw, to his amazement, that he too was now dressed in
the same pretty shiny stuff as his little cousin. They looked just like
two Christmas angels on the top of a frosted Twelfth Night cake
said Jeanne
Dudu nodded his wise head. Jeanne took Hugh's hand, and without Hugh's
quite knowing how it was managed, they all flew up the wall together,
and found themselves standing on the castle terrace. There was no light
streaming out from the windows this time, and the peacocks were quite
motionless at their post
said Hugh
said Dudu, speaking for the first time
They were standing just in front of the door, by which, the last time,
Hugh had entered the long lighted-up passage. As they stood waiting, the
door slowly opened, but to Hugh's great surprise the inside was
perfectly different. A very large white-painted hall was revealed to
them. The ceiling was arched, and looking up, it seemed so very high,
that it gave one more the feeling of being the sky than the roof of a
house. This great hall was perfectly empty, but yet it did not feel
chilly, and a faint pleasant perfume stole through it, as if not far off
sweet-scented flowers and plants were growing.

Hugh and Jeanne stood hand-in-hand and looked around them. The door by
which they had entered had closed noiselessly, and when they turned to
see the way by which they had come in, no sign of a door was there. In
the panels of white wood which formed the walls, it was somehow
concealed
said Hugh.

But Jeanne only laughed
she said
replied Dudu with great
dignity
asked Jeanne
said Dudu, as if quite out of patience
cried Jeanne
Dudu still looked rather contemptuous, and Hugh gave a little pull to
Jeanne's hand
he said
asked Jeanne.

Dudu gave a little croak
he said again
said Jeanne
Off they set. The flying this time was really quite a pleasure in
itself, and the higher up they rose the easier and swifter it seemed to
become. The hall was lighted from the roof -- at least the light seemed to
come down from among the arches so high up that their form was only
vaguely seen. But whether it was daylight or what, the children did not
know, and perhaps it did not occur to them to think. They just flew
softly on, till suddenly Dudu veered to one side and stopped them in
front of a low carved door with a step before it just large enough for
them to stand on. They had not noticed this door before -- the hall was so
very large and the door in comparison so small, and the step before it
had looked just like a little jutting-out ledge in the carving, till
they were close to it
said Dudu
The children did so. The door yielded, and then immediately -- they were
such well-behaved doors in the tapestry palace -- closed behind them. And
what the children now saw was a small winding stair, the lowest steps of
which were close to their feet
said Dudu
He flew down from Jeanne's head as he spoke. Jeanne gave her head a
little shake; she seemed not altogether sorry to be freed from her
head-dress, for a head-dress with _feelings_ is a somewhat uncomfortable
affair
she said
Hugh looked at Jeanne in surprise. He could not understand how it was
that Jeanne ventured to speak so coolly to the raven -- she who in their
daylight life was so frightened of him that she would hardly go near him
for fear he should turn her into a mouse, or in some other way bewitch
her
he said
said Dudu
But he didn't seem
offended
he said
said Hugh and Jeanne. But as they said it, their looks met
each other in astonishment -- there was no Dudu there -- he had already
disappeared
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said
Jeanne
said Hugh
Jeanne made an exclamation
she said
said Hugh.

Both the children stared at each other and turned round to look at their
shoulders, as if they could hardly believe it
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
They set off on their climb up the steep spiral staircase. So narrow it
was, that going hand-in-hand was out of the question
said Jeanne.

Hugh looked at her triumphantly
he said
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
She was standing at the foot of the stair, a step or two higher than
Hugh, and the soft light, which still, in some mysterious way, seemed to
come down from above -- though, looking up the spiral stair, its top
seemed lost in gloom -- fell on her pretty little face. Her hair had
fallen back over her shoulders and lay dark on her pure white shiny
dress; there was a look in her eyes which Hugh had never noticed before,
as if she could see a long way off. Hugh looked at her earnestly
he said
said Jeanne
She turned towards him brightly, with such a merry smile on her face
that Hugh could not help smiling too
she said
said Hugh.

So he stepped up in front of Jeanne, and they slowly made their way.

It was impossible to go fast. Never was there such a twisty little
stair. Here and there, too, it got darker, so that they could only just
find their way, step by step. And it really seemed as if they had
climbed a very long way, when from above came faintly and softly the
sound of a plaintive
it said again, whoever the "it"
was, and then stopped.

The children looked at each other
they said at the same instant
said Hugh
Another step or two and the mystery was explained. They had reached the
top of the turret stair; it led them into a little hall, all, like the
great hall below, painted white. It looked perfectly pure and clean, as
if it had only been painted the day before, and yet there was a
curiously _old_ look about it too, and a faint scent of dried rose
leaves seemed to be in the air.

There was a door in this little hall, exactly opposite the top of the
stair, and at each side of the door was an arm-chair, also all white,
and with a white satin cushion instead of a seat. And on each of these
chairs sat a most beautiful white cat. The only colour in the hall was
the flash of their green eyes, as they turned them full on the two
children.

Jeanne crept a little closer to Hugh. But there was no reason for fear.
The cats were most amiably disposed
said the one on the right-hand chair
said the one on the left-hand chair.

Then they looked at each other for a moment, and at last, seeming to
have made up their minds, each held out his right paw. Something in the
way they did it reminded Hugh and Jeanne of Dudu when he stood on one
leg, and stuck out the other like a walking-stick
they said again, both together this time. And then in a clear,
though rather mewey voice, the right-hand cat spoke to the children
he said.

The children did not know what else to say, so they said
said the left-hand cat
said Hugh, feeling Jeanne
nudge him
said the right-hand cat
Jeanne gave a start of astonishment
she was going to say, but the left-hand cat
interrupted her
he said, very hastily, and Jeanne could
not quite make out if he was frightened or angry, or a little of both
repeated the right-hand cat
he added, anxiously.

Instinctively both the children put their hands up to their heads
they said
said Hugh
Jeanne was saying, but the cats, both speaking
together this time, stopped her with a squeal of horror
they said
Jeanne was annoyed, and did not speak. Hugh felt himself bound to defend
her from the charge of bad manners
he said to the cats
said the right-hand cat, coolly
said Hugh
said the left-hand cat
said Hugh, who didn't feel inclined
to give in to two cats
said the right-hand cat
A sudden sound interrupted him. It was as if some one had moved a piece
of furniture with squeaking castors
said the left-hand cat
Both cats got down from their chairs, and each, standing on their hind
legs, proceeded to open his side of the door between the chairs -- or
"doors" I should almost say, for it was a double-hinged one, opening in
the middle, and the funny thing about it was that one side opened
outwards, and the other inwards, so that at first, unless you were
standing just exactly in the middle, you did not see very clearly into
the inside
CHILD WORLD.


They were not to be surprised! Both the children remembered that, and
yet it was a little difficult to avoid being so.

At first all they saw was just another white room, a small one, and with
a curious pointed window in one corner. But when the doors were fully
opened there was more to be seen. In the first place, at the opposite
corner, was a second window exactly like the other, and in front of this
window a spinning-wheel was placed, and before this spinning-wheel sat,
on a white chair, a white-haired lady.

She was spinning busily. She did not look up as the children came in.
She seemed quite absorbed in her work. So the children stood and gazed
at her, and the cats stood quietly in front, the right-hand one before
Hugh, the left-hand one before Jeanne, not seeming, of course, the least
surprised. Whether I should call the white-haired lady an "old" lady or
not, I really do not know. No doubt she was old, as we count old, but
yet, except for her hair, she did not look so. She was very small, and
she was dressed entirely in white, and her hands were the prettiest
little things you ever saw. But as she did not look up, Hugh and Jeanne
could not at first judge of her face. They stood staring at her for some
minutes without speaking. At last, as they were not allowed to be
surprised, and indeed felt afraid of being reproached with bad manners
by the cats if they made any remarks at all, it began, especially for
Jeanne, to grow rather stupid.

She gave Hugh a little tug
she whispered, very, _very_ softly.

Instantly both cats lifted their right paws
replied Hugh, looking at Jeanne reproachfully
On this the cats wheeled right round and looked at the children
said Jeanne, working herself up
said a soft voice suddenly
Immediately the two cats threw themselves on the ground, apparently in
an agony of grief
they cried
The lady lifted her head, and looked at the cats and the children. There
was a curious expression on her face, as if she had just awakened. Her
eyes were very soft blue, softer and dreamier than Hugh's, and her
mouth, even while it smiled, had a rather sad look. But the look of her
whole face was very -- I can't find a very good word for it. It seemed to
ask you questions, and yet to know more about you than you did yourself.
It was impossible not to keep looking at her once you had begun
were the next words she said
Immediately the cats sat up in their places again, as quiet and
dignified as if they had not been at all put about, and Jeanne glanced
at Hugh as much as to say
Then the lady looked over the cats to the children
she said
What could they say? They had not the least idea what she meant, and
they were afraid of asking. Evidently the white lady was of the same
opinion as the cats as to the rudeness of being surprised; very probably
asking questions would be considered still ruder.

Jeanne was the first to pick up courage
she said
said the lady
said Jeanne.

The lady looked at the cats
she said quietly. The cats trotted off, they opened the door
as before, but left it open this time, and in another moment they
returned, carrying between them a white china tray, on which were two
cups of beautiful rich-looking milk. They handed them to the children,
who each took one and drank it with great satisfaction. Then the cats
took away the cups and tray, and returned and sat down as before.

The lady smiled at the children
she said
She had been so kind about the milk that Hugh this time took courage
he said
said the lady
The children opened their eyes -- with pleasure it is to be supposed
rather than surprise -- for the white lady did not seem at all annoyed
said they, both at once
said the lady
She pointed downwards in the
direction of the stair and the great hall
said Hugh
he exclaimed
said the white lady
said both children at once
said
the lady
STORY SPINNING.&rsqb;

Hugh and Jeanne did as she told them. They leaned their heads, the
smooth black one of the little girl, the fair-haired curly one of the
boy, on the lady's white robe. You can hardly imagine how soft and
pleasant it was to the touch. A half-sleepy feeling came over them; they
shut their eyes and did not feel inclined to open them again. But they
did not really go to sleep; the fairy lady began to work the wheel, and
through the soft whirr came the sound of a voice -- whether it was the
voice of the lady or of the wheel they could not tell. And this was the
old, old story the wheel spun for them
it began
said Jeanne, rather testily
said Hugh
said the voice again. And Jeanne was quite quiet
And she
          Told them an old-world history."
                          MATTHEW ARNOLD.


"'She is so courageous,' said the queen, 'there is no knowing what she
might not do.'

"'She is so kind-hearted,' said the king; 'she might imagine it her duty
to sacrifice herself to our people.'

"And the poor king and queen wept copiously at the mere thought, and all
the ladies and attendants of the Princess were ordered on no account to
let a breath of the terrible story be heard by her. Yet, after all, it
so happened that her suspicions were aroused afresh by the sight this
time of the weeping Bruna. For nothing else could be suggested than
again to try to deceive the monster; and Bruna, a still prettier girl
than the gardener's daughter, was this time chosen to represent the
Princess. But all happened as before. The brown bull rushed off with
his prize, the whole day the unfortunate Bruna was shaken on his back,
and again, as night began to fall, he stopped at the same spot.

"'What time must it be by this, king's daughter?' he asked.

"Foolish Bruna, thankful to have a moment's rest, answered hastily,

"'O brown bull, it must be getting late, and I am sorely tired. It must
be about the time that my mother takes all the eggs that have been laid
in the day to the king's kitchen.'

"'Throw thee once, throw thee twice, throw thee _thrice_,' roared the
bull, each time shaking the henwife's daughter roughly, at the end
flinging her to the ground. 'Shame on thee, thou henwife's daughter, to
call thyself a true Princess.'

"And with that off he rushed, furious, and from that day the ravages and
the terrors began again, and Bruna found her way home, bruised and
weeping, to tell her story.

"This was the tale now related to the Princess, and as she listened a
strange look of determination and courage came over her face.

"'There is but one thing to be done,' she said. 'It is childish to
attempt to deceive a creature who is evidently not what he seems. Let me
go myself, my parents. Trust me to do my best. And, at worst, if I
perish, it will be in a good cause. Better it should be so than that our
people should be driven from their homes, the whole country devastated,
and all its happiness destroyed.'

"The king and queen had no answer to give but their tears. But the
Princess remained firm, and they found themselves obliged to do as she
directed. A messenger was sent to the monster to inform him, for the
third time, that his terms were to be agreed to, and the rest of the day
was spent in the palace in weeping and lamentation.

"Only, strange to say, the Princess shed no tears. She seemed as
cheerful as usual; she played with her golden balls, and endeavoured to
comfort her sorrowful parents, and was so brave and hopeful that in
spite of themselves the poor king and queen could not help feeling a
little comforted.

"'It is a good sign that she has never left off playing with her balls,'
they said to each other. 'Who knows but what the fairy's prediction may
be true, and that in some way the balls may be the means of saving
her?'

"'They and my wits,' said the Princess, laughing, for she had often been
told of the fairy's saying.

"And the king and queen and all the ladies and gentlemen of the court
looked at her in astonishment, admiring her courage, but marvelling at
her having the spirit to laugh at such a moment.

"The next morning, at the usual time, the terrible visitor made his
appearance. He came slowly up to the castle courtyard and stood at the
great entrance, tossing his enormous head with impatience. But he was
not kept waiting long; the doors were flung open, and at the top of the
flight of steps leading down from them appeared the young Princess, pale
but resolute, her fair hair floating over her shoulders, her golden
balls flashing as she slowly walked down the steps, tossing them as she
went. And, unlike the false princesses, she was dressed entirely in
black, without a single jewel or ornament of any kind -- nothing but her
balls, and her hair caught the sunlight as she passed. There were no
soldiers this time, no crowd of weeping friends; the grief of the king
and queen was now too real to be shown, and the Princess had asked that
there should be no one to see her go.

"The brown bull stood still as a lamb for her to mount, and then at a
gentle pace he set off. The Princess had no need to catch hold of his
horns to keep herself from falling, his step was so even. And all along
as she rode she threw her balls up softly in the air, catching them as
they fell. But the brown bull spoke not a word.

"On and on they went; the sun rose high in the heavens and poured down
on the girl's uncovered head the full heat of his rays. But just as she
began to feel it painfully, they entered a forest, where the green shade
of the summer trees made a pleasant shelter. And when they came out from
the forest again on the other side the sun was declining; before long he
had sunk below the horizon, evening was at hand. And as before, the
brown bull stopped.

"'King's daughter,' he said, in a voice so gentle, though deep, that the
Princess started with surprise, 'what hour must it be by this? Tell me,
king's daughter, I pray.'

"'Brown bull,' replied the Princess, without a moment's hesitation, for
those who have nothing to conceal are fearless and ready; 'brown bull,
it is getting late. By now must the king and queen, my father and
mother, be sitting down to their solitary supper and thinking of me, for
at this hour I was used to hasten to them, throwing my pretty balls
as I went.'

&lsqb;THE BROWN BULL OF NORROWA
And happy they ever lived after'--
            Yes, that was the end of the tale
she said
The voice stopped -- for a minute or two the children sat silent, not
sure if they were to hear anything else. Strangely enough, as the story
went on, it seemed more and more as if it were Marcelline's voice that
was telling it, and at last Hugh looked up to see if it was still the
white lady, whose knee his head was resting on. Jeanne too looked up at
the same moment, and both children gave a little cry of surprise. The
white lady had disappeared, and it was indeed Marcelline who was in her
place. The white room, the white chairs, the white cats, the
spinning-wheel, and the pointed windows, had all gone, and instead there
was old Marcelline with her knitting-needles gently clicking in a
regular way, that somehow to Hugh seemed mixed up with his remembrance
of the soft whirr of the wheel, her neatly frilled cap round her face,
and her bright dark eyes smiling down at the children. Hugh felt so
sorry and disappointed that he shut his eyes tight and tried to go on
dreaming, if indeed dreaming it was. But it was no use. He leant his
face against Marcelline's soft white apron and tried to fancy it the
fairy lady's fairy robe; but it was no use. He had to sit up and look
about him
said Marcelline
Hugh looked at Jeanne. It couldn't be a dream then -- there _had_ been a
story, for if he had been asleep, of course he couldn't have heard it.
He said nothing, however -- he waited to see what Jeanne would say. Jeanne
tossed back her head impatiently
she said
Hugh was so pleased at what Jeanne said that he didn't mind a bit about
Marcelline having taken the place of the white lady. Jeanne was the same
as he was -- that was all he cared about. He jumped up eagerly -- they were
in Jeanne's room, close to the fire, and both Jeanne and he had their
little red flannel dressing-gowns on
he said, touching the sleeve of his own one
said Jeanne
Marcelline only smiled
she said
But that was _all_ they could get her to say, and then she carried them
off to bed, and they both slept soundly till morning
CHILD NATURE.


It was queer, but so it was. The children said very little to each other
the next day of their new adventures. Only Hugh felt satisfied that this
time little Jeanne had forgotten nothing; daylight Jeanne and moonlight
Jeanne were the same. Yet he had a feeling that if he said much about
it, if he persisted in trying to convince Jeanne that he had been right
all through, he might spoil it all. It would be like seizing the fairy
lady's cobweb threads roughly, and spoiling them, and finding you had
nothing left. He felt now quite content to let it all be like a pretty
dream which they both knew about, but which was not for everyday life.

Only one impression remained on his mind. He got the greatest wish to
learn to throw balls like the princess of the Brown Bull story, and for
some days every time they went out, he kept peering in at the toy-shop
windows to see if such a thing as golden balls was to be had. And at
last Jeanne asked him what he was always looking for, and then he told
her.

She agreed with him that golden balls would be a very pretty play, but
she was afraid such a thing could not be found
she said, gravely
Hugh replied
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne
However, she joined Hugh in the search, and many a day when they were
out they peeped together not only into the toy-shops, but into the
windows of the queer old curiosity shops, of which, in the ancient town
which was Jeanne's home, there were many. And at last one day they told
Marcelline what it was they were so anxious to find. She shook her head.
There was no such toy in _this_ country, she said, but she did not laugh
at them, or seem to think them silly. And she advised them to be content
with the prettiest balls they _could_ get, which were of nice smooth
buff-coloured leather, very well made, and neither too soft nor too
hard. And in the sunlight, said Jeanne, they really had rather a shiny,
goldy look.

For several days to come these balls were a great interest to the
children. Early and late they were practising at them, and, with
patience and perseverance, they before long arrived at a good deal of
skill. Jeanne was the quicker in the first place, but Hugh was so
patient that he soon equalled her, and then the interest grew still
greater
said Jeanne, one evening, when they had been
playing for a good while
said
Hugh
They were playing in the tapestry room, for Marcelline had told them
they would have more space there, as it was large, and Hugh's little bed
in the corner did not take up much room. It was getting dusk, for the
days were not yet very long, though winter was almost over, and they had
been playing a good while. As Hugh spoke he gave the last ball a final
throw high up in the air, higher than usual, for though Jeanne sprang
forward to catch it, she missed it somehow. It dropped to the ground
behind her
she cried, reproachfully
She stooped down to look for it, and in a minute Hugh was down beside
her. They felt all about, creeping on their hands and knees, but the
missing ball was not to be so easily found
said Hugh, pulling back as he
spoke, a corner of the hangings close to where he and Jeanne were,
which seemed loose. And at the same moment both children gave a little
cry of astonishment. Instead of the bare wall which they expected to
see, or to feel rather, behind the tapestry, a flight of steps met their
view -- a rather narrow flight of steps running straight upwards, without
twisting or turning, and lighted from above by a curious hanging lamp,
hanging by long chains from a roof high up, which they could not see
cried Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
And just at that moment a funny thing happened. They heard a little
noise, and looking up, there -- hopping down the stair before them, step
by step, as if some one had started it from the top, came the lost
ball, or what the children thought the lost ball, for with an
exclamation Hugh darted forward to pick it up, and held it out to
Jeanne. But Jeanne looked at it with astonishment
she cried
So it was, or at least into something which looked just like it
Jeanne went on, her eyes dancing with excitement
The children seized hold of each other's hands, and hurried up the
stair. The steps were easier to mount than those of the corkscrew
staircase up to the white lady's turret, and very soon the children
found themselves at the top of the first flight. There, looking upwards,
they could see the roof. It was a sort of cupola; the chains from which
the lamps hung were fastened to the centre, but the rest of the roof was
of glass, and through it the children saw the sky, already quite dark,
and with innumerable stars dotting its surface
said Jeanne
So it did. A door at the top opened as they ran up the last steps, and a
familiar figure stepped out
exclaimed Jeanne, in a tone of some disappointment
said the raven
said Hugh, anxious to make up for Jeanne's abruptness
said Dudu, cocking his head
said Jeanne
remarked
Dudu
replied Jeanne
Dudu shook his head
he said
He just turned towards the door by which he had entered, and it opened
of itself. He hopped through, and the children followed him. They found
themselves, as Dudu had said, on the roof of the house, of a part of the
house, that is to say. It seemed more like the roof of a little tower or
turret.

Hugh and Jeanne stood for a moment or two in silence, looking up at the
brilliant show of stars overhead. It was not cold, the air seemed
peculiarly fresh and sweet, as if it were purer and finer than that
lower down
said Dudu
replied Hugh
said Jeanne
said Dudu
said Jeanne
said Dudu, vaguely -- he seemed to be thinking to himself
he continued, cocking his head on one side
said the children both together, eagerly
said Dudu
cried the children
said Dudu
for a low wall ran round the roof
interrupted Jeanne
said the raven carelessly
said Jeanne
said Dudu, with the queer sort of
croak which he used for a laugh
said Jeanne
replied Dudu, so amiably
that Hugh wondered more and more at his politeness to Jeanne, who was
certainly not very civil to him
exclaimed Jeanne
replied Dudu
said Jeanne
said Dudu drily
interrupted Jeanne
The raven hemmed and hawed and cleared his throat
he said
exclaimed Jeanne, seeing that the raven was
really ruffled
continued Dudu
One after another they flew away
             Far up to the heavenly blue,
           To the better country, the upper day ----"
                                  JEAN INGELOW
continued Dudu
Dudu observed in passing
he went on
added Dudu
continued Dudu
Dudu cleared his throat and stopped to rest for a moment. Then he
continued
continued Dudu, after another little pause
Dudu paused again. The children, too interested to speak, listened
eagerly
whispered Jeanne at last, softly
continued
Dudu
continued Dudu
exclaimed Jeanne
said Dudu
cried Jeanne
corrected Dudu
said Dudu
added Dudu
Hugh and Jeanne were silent for a moment. Then
they said together.

And Dudu cocked his head on one side
he said, in a matter-of-fact tone
said the children, as they
hastened away.

They found their way back to the tapestry room without difficulty. They
were standing in the middle of the room, half puzzled as to how they had
got there, when Marcelline appeared
they told her, before she had time to ask them
anything
And Marcelline smiled and seemed pleased, but not at all
surprised
said Jeanne's father the next day
The children looked at each other
they said softly
whispered Hugh
said Jeanne
said Hugh
said Jeanne, shaking her smooth little black head
added Hugh sadly
But if he _ever_ does, children dear, and if you care to hear what he
has to tell, you shall not be forgotten, I promise you.



THE END
</text>
