<text>
There is an old story of a punctiliously polite Greek, who, while
performing the funeral of an infant daughter, felt bound to make his
excuses to the spectators for
The Author, although he trusts that the present production has more
vitality than the Greek gentleman's child, still feels that in these
days of philosophical fiction, metaphysical romance, and novels with a
purpose, some apology may perhaps be needed for a tale which has the
unambitious and frivolous aim of mere amusement.

However, he ventures to leave the tale to be its own apology, merely
contenting himself with the entreaty that his little fish may be spared
the rebuke that it is not a whale.

In submitting it with all possible respect to the Public, he conceives
that no form of words he could devise would appeal so simply and
powerfully to their feelings as that which he has ventured to adopt from
a certain Anglo-Portuguese Phrase-Book of deserved popularity.

Like the compilers of that work, he
_Letter of Lord Campbell's, 1835_.


On a certain Monday evening late in January, 1881, Paul Bultitude, Esq.
(of Mincing Lane, Colonial Produce Merchant), was sitting alone in his
dining-room at Westbourne Terrace after dinner.

The room was a long and lofty one, furnished in the stern uncompromising
style of the Mahogany Age, now supplanted by the later fashions of
decoration which, in their outset original and artistic, seem fairly on
the way to become as meaningless and conventional.

Here were no skilfully contrasted shades of grey or green, no dado, no
distemper on the walls; the woodwork was grained and varnished after the
manner of the Philistines, the walls papered in dark crimson, with heavy
curtains of the same colour, and the sideboard, dinner-waggon, and row
of stiff chairs were all carved in the same massive and expensive style
of ugliness. The pictures were those familiar presentments of dirty
rabbits, fat white horses, bloated goddesses, and misshapen boors, by
masters who, if younger than they assume to be, must have been quite old
enough to know better.

Mr. Bultitude was a tall and portly person, of a somewhat pompous and
overbearing demeanour; not much over fifty, but looking considerably
older. He had a high shining head, from which the hair had mostly
departed, what little still remained being of a grizzled auburn,
prominent pale blue eyes with heavy eyelids and fierce, bushy
whitey-brown eyebrows. His general expression suggested a conviction of
his own extreme importance, but, in spite of this, his big underlip
drooped rather weakly and his double chin slightly receded, giving a
judge of character reason for suspecting that a certain obstinate
positiveness observable in Mr. Bultitude's manner might possibly be due
less to the possession of an unusually strong will than to the
circumstance that, by some fortunate chance, that will had hitherto
never met with serious opposition.

The room, with all its aesthetic shortcomings, was comfortable enough,
and Mr. Bultitude's attitude -- he was lying back in a well-wadded leather
arm-chair, with a glass of claret at his elbow and his feet stretched
out towards the ruddy blaze of the fire -- seemed at first sight to imply
that happy after-dinner condition of perfect satisfaction with oneself
and things in general, which is the natural outcome of a good cook, a
good conscience, and a good digestion.

At first sight; because his face did not confirm the impression -- there
was a latent uneasiness in it, an air of suppressed irritation, as if he
expected and even dreaded to be disturbed at any moment, and yet was
powerless to resent the intrusion as he would like to do.

At the slightest sound in the hall outside he would half rise in his
chair and glance at the door with a mixture of alarm and resignation,
and as often as the steps died away and the door remained closed, he
would sink back and resettle himself with a shrug of evident relief.

Habitual novel readers on reading thus far will, I am afraid, prepare
themselves for the arrival of a faithful cashier with news of
irretrievable ruin, or a mysterious and cynical stranger threatening
disclosures of a disgraceful nature.

But all such anticipations must at once be ruthlessly dispelled. Mr.
Bultitude, although he was certainly a merchant, was a fairly successful
one -- in direct defiance of the laws of fiction, where any connection
with commerce seems to lead naturally to failure in one of the three
volumes.

He was an elderly gentleman, too, of irreproachable character and
antecedents; no Damocles' sword of exposure was swinging over his bald
but blameless head; he had no disasters to fear and no indiscretions to
conceal. He had not been intended for melodrama, with which, indeed, he
would not have considered it a respectable thing to be connected.

In fact, the secret of his uneasiness was so absurdly simple and
commonplace that I am rather ashamed to have made even a temporary
mystery of it.

His son Dick was about to return to school that evening, and Mr.
Bultitude was expecting every moment to be called upon to go through a
parting scene with him; that was really all that was troubling him.

This sounds very creditable to the tenderness of his feelings as a
father -- for there are some parents who bear such a bereavement at the
close of the holidays with extraordinary fortitude, if they do not
actually betray an unnatural satisfaction at the event.

But it was not exactly from softness of heart that he was restless and
impatient, nor did he dread any severe strain upon his emotions. He was
not much given to sentiment, and was the author of more than one of
those pathetically indignant letters to the papers, in which the British
parent denounces the expenses of education and the unconscionable length
and frequency of vacations.

He was one of those nervous and fidgety persons who cannot understand
their own children, looking on them as objectionable monsters whose next
movements are uncertain -- much as Frankenstein must have felt towards
_his_ monster.

He hated to have a boy about the house, and positively writhed under the
irrelevant and irrepressible questions, the unnecessary noises and
boisterous high spirits which nothing would subdue; his son's society
was to him simply an abominable nuisance, and he pined for a release
from it from the day the holidays began.

He had been a widower for nearly three years, and no doubt the loss of a
mother's loving tact, which can check the heedless merriment before it
becomes intolerable, and interpret and soften the most peevish and
unreasonable of rebukes, had done much to make the relations between
parent and children more strained than they might otherwise have been.

As it was, Dick's fear of his father was just great enough to prevent
any cordiality between them, and not sufficient to make him careful to
avoid offence, and it is not surprising if, when the time came for him
to return to his house of bondage at Dr. Grimstone's, Crichton House,
Market Rodwell, he left his father anything but inconsolable.

Just now, although Mr. Bultitude was so near the hour of his
deliverance, he still had a bad quarter of an hour before him, in which
the last farewells must be said, and he found it impossible under these
circumstances to compose himself for a quiet half-hour's nap, or retire
to the billiard-room for a cup of coffee and a mild cigar, as he would
otherwise have done -- since he was certain to be disturbed.

And there was another thing which harassed him, and that was a haunting
dread lest at the last moment some unforeseen accident should prevent
the boy's departure after all. He had some grounds for this, for only a
week before, a sudden and unprecedented snowstorm had dashed his hopes,
on the eve of their fulfilment, by forcing the Doctor to postpone the
day on which his school was to re-assemble, and now Mr. Bultitude sat on
brambles until he had seen the house definitely rid of his son's
presence.

All this time, while the father was fretting and fuming in his
arm-chair, the son, the unlucky cause of all this discomfort, had been
standing on the mat outside the door, trying to screw up enough courage
to go in as if nothing was the matter with him.

He was not looking particularly boisterous just then. On the contrary,
his face was pale, and his eyelids rather redder than he would quite
care for them to be seen by any of the "fellows" at Crichton House. All
the life and spirit had gone out of him for the time; he had a
troublesome dryness in his throat, and a general sensation of chill
heaviness, which he himself would have described -- expressively enough,
if not with academical elegance -- as
The stoutest hearted boy, returning to the most perfect of schools,
cannot always escape something of this at that dark hour when the sands
of the holidays have run out to their last golden grain, when the boxes
are standing corded and labelled in the hall, and some one is going to
fetch the fatal cab.

Dick had just gone the round of the house, bidding dreary farewells to
all the servants; an unpleasant ordeal which he would gladly have
dispensed with, if possible, and which did not serve to raise his
spirits.

Upstairs, in the bright nursery, he had found his old nurse sitting
sewing by the high wire fender. She was a stern, hard-featured old lady,
who had systematically slapped him through infancy into boyhood, and he
had had some stormy passages with her during the past few weeks; but she
softened now in the most unexpected manner as she said good-bye, and
told him he was a
And then she
predicted, with some of the rashness attaching to irresponsibility, that
he would be
but all this unusual
gentleness only made the interview more difficult to come out of with
any credit for self-control.

Then downstairs, the cook had come up in her evening brown print and
clean collar, from her warm spice-scented kitchen, to remark cheerily
that
which had a certain spurious consolation
about it, until one saw that, after all, it put the case entirely from
her own standpoint.

After this Dick had parted from his elder sister Barbara and his young
brother Roly, and had arrived where we found him first, at the mat
outside the dining-room door, where he still lingered shivering in the
cold foggy hall.

Somehow, he could not bring himself to take the next step at once; he
knew pretty well what his father's feelings would be, and a parting is a
very unpleasant ceremony to one who feels that the regret is all on his
own side.

But it was no use putting it off any longer; he resolved at last to go
in and get it over, and opened the door accordingly. How warm and
comfortable the room looked -- more comfortable than it had ever seemed to
him before, even on the first day of the holidays!

And his father would be sitting there in a quarter of an hour's time,
just as he was now, while he himself would be lumbering along to the
station through the dismal raw fog!

How unspeakably delightful it must be, thought Dick enviously, to be
grown up and never worried by the thoughts of school and lesson-books;
to be able to look forward to returning to the same comfortable house,
and living the same easy life, day after day, week after week, with no
fear of a swiftly advancing Black Monday.

Gloomy moralists might have informed him that we cannot escape school by
simply growing up, and that, even for those who contrive this and make
a long holiday of their lives, there comes a time when the days are
grudgingly counted to a blacker Monday than ever made a school-boy's
heart quake within him.

But then Dick would never have believed them, and the moralists would
only have wasted much excellent common sense upon him.

Paul Bultitude's face cleared as he saw his son come in
he said, with evident satisfaction, as he turned in his chair,
intending to cut the scene as short as possible
said Dick
cried Paul, with evident alarm
grumbled Dick, not considering so
much anxiety at all flattering
said his father, with more composure
he suggested
said Dick
This request was due, less to filial affection than a faint desire for
dessert, which even his feelings could not altogether stifle. Mr.
Bultitude granted it with a very bad grace
he said impatiently
Dick obeyed, and applied himself to the dessert with rather an injured
expression.

His father felt a greater sense of constraint and worry than ever; the
interview, as he had feared, seemed likely to last some time, and he
felt that he ought to improve the occasion in some way, or, at all
events, make some observation. But, for all that, he had not the
remotest idea what to say to this red-haired, solemn boy, who sat
staring gloomily at him in the intervals of filling his mouth. The
situation grew more embarrassing every moment.

At last, as he felt himself likely to have more to say in reproof than
on any other subject, he began with that
he began
This was not a very encouraging address, perhaps, but it did not seem to
distress Dick to any extent; he had heard very much the same sort of
thing several times before, and had been fully prepared for it then.

He had been seeking distraction in almonds and raisins, but now they
only choked instead of consoling him, and he gave them up and sat
brooding silently over his hard lot instead, with a dull, blank
dejection which those only who have gone through the same thing in their
boyhood will understand. To others, whose school life has been one
unchequered course of excitement and success, it will be
incomprehensible enough -- and so much the better for them.

He sat listening to the grim sphinx clock on the black marble
chimneypiece, as it remorselessly ticked away his last few moments of
home-life, and he ingeniously set himself to crown his sorrow by
reviving recollections of happier days.

In one of the corners of the overmantel there was still a sprig of
withered laurel left forgotten, and his eye fell on it now with grim
satisfaction. He made his thoughts travel back to that delightful
afternoon on Christmas Eve, when they had all come home riotous through
the brilliant streets, laden with purchases from the Baker Street
Bazaar, and then had decorated the rooms with such free and careless
gaiety.

And the Christmas dinner too! He had sat just where he was sitting now,
with, ah, such a difference in every other respect -- the time had not
come then when the thought of
had begun to intrude its grisly shape, like the skull at an ancient
feast.

And yet he could distinctly recollect now, and with bitter remorse, that
he had not enjoyed himself then as much as he ought to have done; he
even remembered an impious opinion of his that the proceedings were
Slow! with plenty to eat, and three (four, if he had only known
it) more weeks of holiday before him; with Boxing Day and the brisk
exhilarating drive to the Crystal Palace immediately following, with all
the rest of a season of licence and varied joys to come, which he could
hardly trust himself to look back upon now! He must have been mad to
think such a thing.

Overhead his sister Barbara was playing softly one of the airs from "The
Pirates" (it was Frederic's appeal to the Major-General's daughters),
and the music, freed from the serio-comic situation which it
illustrates, had a tenderness and pathos of its own which went to Dick's
heart and intensified his melancholy.

He had gone (in secret, for Mr. Bultitude disapproved of such
dissipations) to hear the Opera in the holidays, and now the piano
conjured the whole scene up for him again -- there would be no more
theatre-going for him for a very long time!

By this time Mr. Bultitude began to feel the silence becoming once more
oppressive, and roused himself with a yawn
he said
Dick felt more injured than ever, and showed it by drawing what he
intended for a moving sigh.

Unfortunately it was misunderstood
said his parent testily
Dick mumbled some apology, and then, having found his tongue and
remembered his necessities, said, with a nervous catch in his voice
Mr. Bultitude looked as if his son had petitioned for a latch-key
he repeated
said Dick
grumbled Mr.
Bultitude, as if he considered money an object of art
said his
father
And at this he brought up a fistful of loose silver and gold from one of
his trouser-pockets, and spread it deliberately out on the table in
front of him in shining rows.

Dick's eyes sparkled at the sight of so much wealth; for a moment or two
he almost forgot the pangs of approaching exile in the thought of the
dignity and credit which a single one of those bright new sovereigns
would procure for him.

It would ensure him surreptitious luxuries and open friendships as long
as it lasted. Even Tipping, the head boy of the school, who had gone
into tails, brought back no more, and besides, the money would bring
him handsomely out of certain pecuniary difficulties to which an
unexpected act of parental authority had exposed him; he could easily
dispose of all claims with such a sum at command, and then his father
could so easily spare it out of so much!

Meanwhile Mr. Bultitude, with great care and precision, selected from
the coins before him a florin, two shillings, and two sixpences, which
he pushed across to his son, who looked at them with a disappointment he
did not care to conceal
he
observed
Dick had not the courage to ask for more, much as he longed to do so, so
he put the money in his purse with very qualified expressions of
gratitude.

In his purse he seemed to find something which had escaped his memory,
for he took out a small parcel and unfolded it with some hesitation
he said, speaking with more animation than he had yet
done
said Mr. Bultitude, sharply
said Dick
persisted Dick
Dick handed it over reluctantly enough. It was not much to look at,
quite an insignificant-looking little square tablet of greyish green
stone, pierced at one angle, and having on two of its faces faint traces
of mysterious letters or symbols, which time had made very difficult to
distinguish.

It looked harmless enough as Mr. Bultitude took it in his hand; there
was no kindly hand to hold him back, no warning voice to hint that there
might possibly be sleeping within that small marble block the pent-up
energy of long-forgotten Eastern necromancy, just as ready as ever to
awake into action at the first words which had power to evoke it.

There was no one; but even if there had been such a person, Paul
Bultitude was a sober prosaic individual, who would probably have
treated the warning as a piece of ridiculous superstition.

As it was, no man could have put himself in a position of extreme peril
with a more perfect unconsciousness of his danger
Paul Bultitude put on his glasses to examine the stone more carefully,
for it was some time since he had last seen or thought about it. Then he
looked up and said once more
Dick would have considered it a very valuable prize indeed; he could
have exhibited it to admiring friends -- during lessons, of course, when
it would prove a most agreeable distraction; he could have played with
and fingered it incessantly, invented astonishing legends of its powers
and virtues; and, at last, when he had grown tired of it, have bartered
it for any more desirable article that might take his fancy. All these
advantages were present to his mind in a vague shifting form, but he
could not find either courage or words to explain them.

Consequently he only said awkwardly
said Paul
Marmaduke Paradine, his brother-in-law, was not a connection of whom he
had much reason to feel particularly proud. One of those persons endowed
with what are known as
he had, after
some futile attempts to enter the army, been sent out to Bombay as agent
for a Manchester firm, and in that capacity had contrived to be mixed up
in some more than shady transactions with rival exporters and native
dealers up the country, which led to an unceremonious dismissal by his
employers.

He had brought home the stone from India as a propitiatory token of
remembrance, more portable and less expensive than the lacquered
cabinets, brasses, stuffs and carved work which are expected from
friends at such a distance, and he had been received with pardon and
started once more, until certain other proceedings of his, shadier
still, had obliged Paul to forbid him the house at Westbourne Terrace.

Since then little had been heard of him, and the reports which reached
Mr. Bultitude of his disreputable relative's connection with the
promotion of a series of companies of the kind affected by the widow and
curate, and exposed in money articles and law courts, gave him no
desire to renew his acquaintance
said Dick, rather unfortunately for any
hopes he might have of persuading his father to entrust him with the
coveted treasure
yawned Paul
said his father drily, apparently not much influenced by
this inducement
he little knew how literally he was to be
taken at his word
There was a sound of wheels outside, and, as Dick heard them, he grew
desperate in his extremity; a wish he had long secretly cherished
unspoken, without ever hoping for courage to give it words, rose to his
lips now; he got up and moved timidly towards his father
he said
said Paul
Paul stared at him, angry and incredulous
he said slowly
whimpered
Dick
said Paul angrily
At this final blow to all his hopes, Dick began to sob in a subdued
hopeless kind of way, which was more than his father could bear. To do
Paul justice, he had not meant to be quite so harsh when the boy was
about to set out for school, and, a little ashamed of his irritation, he
sought to justify his decision.

He chose to do this by delivering a short homily on the advantages of
school, by which he might lead Dick to look on the matter in the calm
light of reason and common sense, and commonplaces on the subject began
to rise to the surface of his mind, from the rather muddy depths to
which they had long since sunk.

He began to give Dick the benefit of all this stagnant wisdom, with a
feeling of surprise as he went on, at his own powerful and original way
of putting things
he began
said Dick
This put Paul on his mettle; he had warmed well to his subject, and
could not let this open challenge pass unnoticed -- it gave him such an
opening for a cheap and easy effect.

He still had the stone in his hand as he sank back into his chair,
smiling with a tolerant superiority
he said, impressively
It is so fatally easy to say more than we mean in the desire to make as
strong an impression as possible. Well for most of us that -- more
fortunate than Mr. Bultitude -- we can generally do so without fear of
being taken too strictly at our word.

As he spoke these unlucky words, he felt a slight shiver, followed by a
curious shrinking sensation all over him. It was odd, too, but the
arm-chair in which he sat seemed to have grown so much bigger all at
once. He felt a passing surprise, but concluded it must be fancy, and
went on as comfortably as before
For Dick, after some seconds of half-frightened open-mouthed staring,
had suddenly burst into a violent fit of almost hysterical giggling,
which he seemed trying vainly to suppress.

This naturally annoyed Mr. Bultitude, and he went on with immense
dignity
gasped Dick
said Paul angrily
The wheels must have belonged to some other cab, for none had stopped at
the pavement as yet; but Mr. Bultitude was justly indignant, and could
stand the interview no longer. Dick, however, made no attempt to move;
he remained there, choking and shaking with laughter, while his father
sat stiffly on his chair, trying to ignore his son's unmannerly conduct,
but only partially succeeding.

No one can calmly endure watching other people laughing at him like
idiots, while he is left perfectly incapable of guessing what he has
said or done to amuse them. Even when this is known, it requires a
peculiarly keen sense of humour to see the point of a joke against
oneself.

At last his patience gave out, and he said coldly
Dick, looking flushed and half-ashamed, tried again and again to speak,
but each time the attempt was too much for him. After a time he did
succeed, but his voice was hoarse and shaken with laughter as he spoke
There was the usual narrow sheet of plate glass at the back of the
sideboard, and to this Mr. Bultitude walked, almost under protest, and
with a cold dignity. It occurred to him that he might have a smudge on
his face or something wrong with his collar and tie -- something to
account to some extent for his son's frivolous and insulting behaviour.
No suspicion of the terrible truth crossed his mind as yet.

Meanwhile Dick was looking on eagerly with a chuckle of anticipation, as
one who watches the dawning appreciation of an excellent joke.

But no sooner had Paul met the reflection in the glass than he started
back in incredulous horror -- then returned and stared again and again.

Surely, surely, this could not be he!

He had expected to see his own familiar portly bow-windowed presence
there -- but somehow, look as he would, the mirror insisted upon
reflecting the figure of his son Dick. Could he possibly have become
invisible and have lost the power of casting a reflection -- or how was it
that Dick, and only Dick, was to be seen there?

How was it, too, when he looked round, there was the boy still sitting
there? It could not be Dick, evidently, that he saw in the glass.
Besides, the reflection opposite him moved when he moved, returned when
he returned, copied his every gesture!

He turned round upon his son with angry and yet hopeful suspicion
he cried fiercely
stammered Paul, determined to know the worst
said Dick emphatically
and he came up to the sideboard and placed himself
by the side of his horrified father
he said, with another
giggle
They were indeed; the glass reflected now two small boys, each with
chubby cheeks and auburn hair, both dressed, too, exactly alike, in Eton
jackets and broad white collars; the only difference to be seen between
them was that, while one face wore an expression of intense glee and
satisfaction, the other -- the one which Mr. Bultitude was beginning to
fear must belong to him -- was lengthened and drawn with dismay and
bewilderment
said Paul faintly
protested Dick
repeated Paul indignantly
he added plaintively
said Dick
he
added dubiously
said Paul angrily
said Paul
argued Dick
said Paul
cried Dick
said Paul
said Dick
echoed Mr. Bultitude
he said, with a gleam
of returning hopefulness
He took the stone, and got into a corner by himself where he began
repeating the words
and so on,
until he was very exhausted and red in the face. He tried with the stone
held in his left hand, as well as his right, sitting and standing, under
all the various conditions he could think of, but absolutely nothing
came of it; he was just as exasperatingly boyish and youthful as ever at
the end of it
he said at last, giving it up with a rather
crestfallen air
suggested Dick, who had shown throughout the most
unsympathetic cheerfulness
groaned Paul
This suggestion simply enchanted Dick
he
laughed
And he rushed to the bell
screamed Paul
And he paced restlessly up and down the room with his brain on fire.

All at once, as he became able to think more coherently, there occurred
to him a chance, slender and desperate enough, but still a chance, of
escaping even yet the consequences of his folly.

He was forced to conclude that, however improbable and fantastic it
might appear in this rationalistic age, there must be some hidden power
in this Garuda Stone which had put him in his present very unpleasant
position. It was plain too that the virtues of the talisman refused to
exert themselves any more at his bidding.

But it did not follow that in another's hands the spell would remain as
powerless. At all events, it was an experiment well worth the trial, and
he lost no time in explaining the notion to Dick, who, by the sparkle in
his eyes and suppressed excitement in his manner, seemed to think there
might be something in it
he said
said Paul, with a paternal air that sorely tried
Dick's recovered gravity, it contrasted so absurdly with his altered
appearance
Dick took it, and held it thoughtfully for some moments, while Paul
waited in nervous impatience
he said dolefully at
last, as nothing happened
said Dick calmly
said Paul fussily
said Dick indifferently
said Dick, who all this time was sitting on a corner of the
table, swinging his legs
said Paul, much relieved
Dick asked
said Paul
said Dick
said Dick
asked Mr. Bultitude sharply, struck by something sinister
and peculiar in the boy's manner
said Dick
protested Paul
cried Paul, horrified at this proposal
objected Dick, stubbornly
said Dick blandly
said Dick doggedly
cried the justly-enraged father
and he made a movement towards his son, as if he meant to
recover the talisman by main force.

But Dick was too quick for him. Slipping off the table with great
agility, he planted himself firmly on the hearth-rug, with the hand that
held the stone clenched behind his back, and the other raised in
self-defence
he said
Mr. Bultitude retreated a few steps apprehensively, feeling himself no
match for his son, except in size and general appearance; and for some
moments of really frightful intensity they stood panting on the
hearth-rug, each cautiously watching the other, on his guard against
stratagem and surprise.

It was one of those painful domestic scenes which are fortunately rare
between father and son.

Overhead, the latest rollicking French polka was being rattled out, with
a savage irony of which pianos, even by the best makers, can at times be
capable.

Suddenly Dick drew himself up
he cried
excitedly
And as he spoke, Mr. Bultitude had the bitterness of seeing his
unscrupulous son swell out like the frog in the fable, till he stood
there before him the exact duplicate of what Paul had so lately been!

The transformed Dick began to skip and dance round the room in high
glee, with as much agility as his increased bulk would allow
he said
And then he threw himself panting into a chair, and began to laugh
excitedly at the success of his unprincipled manoeuvres.

As for Paul, he was perfectly furious at having been so outwitted and
overreached. It was a long time before he could command his voice
sufficiently to say, savagely
said Dick, very decidedly
Paul did not really mean this, he only meant to frighten him; for he
still trusted that, by letting Boaler into the secret, the charm might
be set in motion once more, and the difficulty comfortably overcome. But
his threat had a most unfortunate effect upon Dick; it hardened him to
take a course he might otherwise have shrunk from
he said
said Paul
said Dick
gasped Paul
exclaimed Dick
cried Paul. And just then there was the sound of wheels outside
once more. They stopped before the house, the bell rang sharply -- the
long-expected cab had come at last
said Dick
Mr. Bultitude tried to treat the affair as a joke. He laughed a ghastly
little laugh
But Dick only warmed his coat tails at the fire as he said, with a very
ungenerous reminiscence of his father's manner
Paul stood staring stupidly at this outrageous assumption; he could
scarcely believe yet that it was meant in cruel earnest. Before he could
answer, the door opened and Boaler appeared
he
said to the false Dick
said Dick, with well-assumed tenderness, but a
rather dangerous light in his eye
Paul turned indignantly from him to the butler; he, at least, would
stand by him. Boaler would not see a master who had always been fair, if
not indulgent, to him driven from his home in this cold-blooded manner!

He made two or three attempts to speak, for his brain whirled so with
scathing, burning things to say. He would expose the fraud then and
there, and defy the impudent usurper; he would warn every one against
this spurious pinchbeck imitation of himself. The whole household should
be summoned and called upon to judge between the two!

No doubt, if he had had enough self-command to do all this effectually,
while Dick had as yet not had the time thoroughly to adapt himself to
his altered circumstances, he might have turned the situation at the
outset, and spared himself some very painful experiences.

But it is very often precisely those words which are the most vitally
important to be said that refuse to pass our lips on a sudden emergency.
We feel all the necessity of saying something at once, but the necessary
words unaccountably desert us at the critical moment.

Mr. Bultitude felt himself in this unfortunate position. He made more
wild efforts to explain, but the sense of his danger only petrified his
mind instead of stimulating it. Then he was spared further conflict. A
dark mist rose before his eyes; the walls of the room receded into
infinite space; and, with a loud singing in his ears, he fell, and
seemed to himself to be sinking down, down, through the earth to the
very crust of the antipodes. Then the blackness closed over him -- and he
knew no more
_Merchant of Venice_, Act iv.


When Mr. Bultitude recovered his senses, which was not for a
considerable time, he found that he was being jolted along through a
broad well-lit thoroughfare, in a musty four-wheeler.

His head was by no means clear yet, and for some minutes he could hardly
be said to think at all; he merely lay back dreamily listening to the
hard grinding jar of the cab windows vibrating in their grooves.

His first distinct sensation was a vague wonder what Barbara might be
intending to give him for dinner, for, oddly enough, he felt far from
hungry, and was conscious that his palate would require the adroitest
witching.

With the thought of dinner his dining-room was almost inseparably
associated, and then, with an instant rush of recollection, the whole
scene there with the Garuda Stone surged into his brain. He shuddered as
he did so; it had all been so real, so hideously vivid and coherent
throughout. But all unpleasant impressions soon yielded to the delicious
luxury of his present security.

As his last conscious moment had been passed in his own dining-room, the
fact that he opened his eyes in a cab, instead of confirming his worst
fears, actually helped to restore the unfortunate gentleman's serenity;
for he frequently drove home from the city in this manner, and believed
himself now, instead of being, as was actually the case, in that
marvellous region of cheap photography, rocking-horses, mild stone
lions, and wheels and ladders -- the Euston Road -- to be bowling along
Holborn.

Now that he was thoroughly awake he found positive amusement in going
over each successive incident of his nightmare experience with the
talisman, and smiling at the tricks his imagination had played him
he said to himself, for even his dreams were, as a rule, within the
bounds of probability. But he was not long in tracing it to the devilled
kidneys he had had at the club for lunch, and some curious old brown
sherry Robinson had given him afterwards at his office
he thought
As a rule, after waking up on the verge of a fearful crisis, the effect
of the horror fades swiftly away, as one detail after another evades a
memory which is never too anxious to retain them, and each moment
brings a deeper sense of relief and self-congratulation.

But in Paul's case, curiously enough, as he could not help thinking, the
more completely roused he became, the greater grew his uneasiness.

Perhaps the first indication of the truth was suggested to him by a
lurking suspicion -- which he tried to dismiss as mere fancy -- that he
filled rather less of the cab than he had always been accustomed to do.

To reassure himself he set his thoughts to review all the proceedings of
that day, feeling that if he could satisfactorily account for the time
up to his taking the cab, that would be conclusive as to the unreality
of any thing that appeared to have happened later in his own house. He
got on well enough till he came to the hour at which he had left the
office, and then, search his memory as he would, he could not remember
hailing any cab!

Could it be another delusion, too, or was it the fact that he had found
himself much pressed for time and had come home by the Underground to
Praed Street? It must have been the day before, but that was Sunday.
Saturday, then? But the recollection seemed too recent and fresh; and
besides, on Saturday, he had left at two, and had taken Barbara to see
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke's performance.

Slowly, insidiously, but with irresistible force, the conviction crept
upon him that he had dined, and dined well
he told himself
The bare idea that something might be wrong with him after all made him
impatient to put an end to all suspense. He must knock this scotched
nightmare once for all on the head by a deliberate appeal to his senses.

The cab had passed the lighted shops now, and was driving between
squares and private houses, so that Mr. Bultitude had to wait until the
sickly rays of a street lamp glanced into the cab for a moment, and, as
they did so, he put his feet up on the opposite seat and examined his
boots and trousers with breathless eagerness.

It was not to be denied; they were not his ordinary boots, nor did he
ever wear such trousers as he saw above them! Always a careful and
punctiliously neat person, he was more than commonly exacting concerning
the make and polish of his boots and the set of his trousers.

These boots were clumsy, square-toed, and thick-soled; one was even
patched on the side. The trousers were heavy and rough, of the kind
advertised as
frayed at the ends, and shiny -- shamefully shiny -- about the knees!

In hot despair he rapidly passed his hands over his body. It felt
unusually small and slim, Mr. Bultitude being endowed with what is
euphemistically termed a
and it was with an agony rarely
felt at such a discovery that he realised that, for the first time for
more than twenty years, he actually had a waist.

Then, as a last resource, he took off his hat and felt for the broad,
smooth, egg-like surface, garnished by scanty side patches of thin hair,
which he knew he ought to find.

It was gone -- hidden under a crop of thick close curling locks!

This last disappointment completely overcame him; he had a kind of short
fit in the cab as the bitter truth was brought home to him unmistakably.

Yes, this was no dream of a distempered digestion, but sober reality.
The whole of that horrible scene in the dining-room had really taken
place; and now he, Paul Bultitude, the widely-respected merchant of
Mincing Lane, a man of means and position, was being ignominiously
packed off to school as if he were actually the schoolboy some hideous
juggle had made him appear!

It was only with a violent effort that he could succeed in commanding
his thoughts sufficiently to decide on some immediate action
he kept muttering to himself, with shaking lips
It was some comfort to him in this extremity to recognise on the box the
well-known broad back of Clegg, a cabman who stabled his two horses in
some mews near Praed Street, and whom he had been accustomed to
patronise in bad weather for several years.

Clegg would know him, in spite of his ridiculous transformation.

His idea was to stop the cab, and turn round and drive home again, when
they would find that he was not to be got rid of again quite so easily.
If Dick imagined he meant to put up tamely with this kind of treatment,
he was vastly mistaken; he would return home boldly and claim his
rights!

No reasonable person could be perverse enough to doubt his identity when
once matters came to the proof; though at first, of course, he might
find a difficulty in establishing it. His children, his clerks, and his
servants would soon get used to his appearance, and would learn to look
below the mere surface, and then there was always the possibility of
putting everything right by means of the magic stone
he said aloud; and letting down the window,
leaned out and shouted
till he was hoarse.

But Clegg either could not or would not hear; he drove on at full speed,
a faster rate of progress than that adopted by most drivers of
four-wheeled cabs being one of his chief recommendations.

They were now passing Euston. It was a muggy, slushy night, with a thin
brown fog wreathing the houses and fading away above their tops into a
dull, slate-blue sky. The wet street looked like a black canal; the
blurred forms, less like vehicles than nondescript boats, moving over
its inky surface, were indistinctly reflected therein; the gas-lights
flared redly through the murky haze. It was not a pleasant evening in
which to be out-of-doors.

Paul would have opened the cab-door and jumped out had he dared, but his
nerve failed him, and, indeed, considering the speed of the cab, the
leap would have been dangerous to a far more active person. So he was
forced to wait resignedly until the station should be reached, when he
determined to make Clegg understand his purpose with as little loss of
time as possible
he thought
And he searched his pockets for the loose coin he
usually carried about with him in such abundance; there was no gold in
any of them.

He found, however, a variety of minor and less negotiable articles,
which he fished out one by one from unknown depths -- a curious
collection. There was a stumpy German-silver pencil case, a broken prism
from a crystal chandelier, a gilded Jew's harp, a little book in which
the leaves on being turned briskly, gave a semblance of motion to the
sails of a black windmill drawn therein, a broken tin soldier, some
Hong-Kong coppers with holes in them, and a quantity of little cogged
wheels from the inside of a watch; while a further search was rewarded
by an irregular lump of toffee imperfectly enfolded in sticky brown
paper.

He threw the whole of these treasures out of the window with
indescribable disgust, and, feeling something like a purse in a side
pocket, opened it eagerly.

It held five shillings exactly, the coins corresponding to those he had
pushed across to his son such a little while ago! It did not seem to him
quite such a magnificent sum now as it had done then; he had shifted his
point of view.

It was too clear that the stone must have carried out his thoughtless
wish with scrupulous and conscientious exactness in every detail. He had
wanted, or said he wanted, to be a boy again like Dick, and accordingly
he had become a perfect duplicate, even to the contents of the pockets.
Evidently nothing on the face of things showed the slightest difference.
Yet -- and here lay the sting of the metamorphosis -- he was conscious under
it all of being his old original self, in utter discordance with the
youthful form in which he was an unwilling prisoner.

By this time the cab had driven up the sharp incline, and under the high
pointed archway of St. Pancras terminus, and now drew up with a jerk
against the steps leading to the booking office.

Paul sprang out at once in a violent passion
he
said
Clegg was a burly, red-faced man, with a husky voice and a general
manner which conveyed the impression that he regarded teetotalism, as a
principle, with something more than disapproval
he said, bending stiffly down from his box
said Clegg, with an approach to sentiment
Paul saw the uselessness of arguing with him
Clegg gave a vinous wink
he said with
admiration
asked Paul
said Clegg sententiously
said Paul
said Clegg, hesitating, to Paul's joy
he cried with lofty
contempt as he saw from Paul's face that the coin was not producible
Clegg delivered this harangue with much gesture and in a loud tone,
which greatly edified the porters and disgusted Mr. Bultitude
said the latter
bellowed the outraged Clegg, rising on the box in his wrath
And with much cursing and growling, Clegg gathered up his reins and
drove off into the fog, Boaler having apparently pre-paid the fare
said a porter, who had been putting the
playbox and portmanteau on a truck during the altercation
said Mr. Bultitude
The porter looked round. A moment before there had been several cabs
discharging their loads at the steps; now the last had rolled away
empty
he
suggested
Paul thought the other course might be the longer one, and decided to
stay where he was. So he walked into the lofty hall in which the booking
offices are placed and waited there by the huge fire that blazed in the
stove until he should hear the cab arrive which could take him back to
Westbourne Terrace.

One or two trains were about to start, and the place was full. There
were several Cambridge men "going up" after the Christmas vacation, in
every variety of ulster; some tugging at refractory white terriers, one
or two entrusting bicycles to dubious porters with many cautions and
directions. There were burly old farmers going back to their quiet
countryside, flushed with the prestige of a successful stand under
cross-examination in some witness-box at the Law Courts; to tell and
retell the story over hill and dale, in the market-place and
bar-parlour, every week for the rest of their honest lives. There was
the usual pantomime "rally" on a mild scale, with real frantic
passengers, and porters, and trucks, and trays of lighted lamps.

Presently, out of the crowd and confusion, a small boy in a thick pilot
jacket and an immensely tall hat, whom Paul had observed looking at him
intently for some time, walked up to the stove and greeted him
familiarly
he said
and he giggled dismally.

He was a pale-faced boy with freckles, very light green eyes, long,
rather ragged black hair, a slouching walk, and a smile half-simpering,
half-impudent.

Mr. Bultitude was greatly staggered by the presumption of so small a boy
venturing to address him in this way. He could only stare haughtily
said the boy in an aggrieved
tone
said Paul stiffly, feeling bound to say
something
The other gave a loud whistle
Paul walked away from him with marked coolness. He was not going to
trouble himself to talk to his son's schoolfellows
said the boy, not at all discouraged by his
reception, following him and taking his arm
said Paul
said the other huffily
said Mr. Bultitude
He tried to work his arm free from the close and affectionate grip of
his unwelcome companion, who was regarding him with a sort of admiring
leer
he said
To be advised to stop humbugging, and be persecuted with such idle
questions as these, maddened the poor gentleman. A hansom really had
rolled up to the steps outside. He must put an end to this waste of
precious time, and escape from this highly inconvenient small boy.

He forced his way to the door, the boy still keeping fast hold of his
arm. Fortunately the cab was still there, and its late occupant, a tall,
broad man, was standing with his back to them paying the driver. Paul
was only just in time
he cried
Jolland giggled more impishly than ever
he said
Paul, thus released, was just hurrying towards the cab, when the
stranger who had got out of it settled the fare with satisfaction to
himself and turned sharply round.

The gas-light fell full on his face, and Mr. Bultitude recognised that
the form and features were those of no stranger -- he had stumbled upon
the very last person he had expected or desired to meet just then -- his
flight was intercepted by his son's schoolmaster, Dr. Grimstone himself!

The suddenness of the shock threw him completely off his balance. In an
ordinary way the encounter would not of course have discomposed him, but
now he would have given worlds for presence of mind enough either to
rush past to the cab and secure his only chance of freedom before the
Doctor had fully realised his intention, or else greet him affably and
calmly, and, taking him quietly aside, explain his awkward position with
an easy man-of-the-world air, which would ensure instant conviction.

But both courses were equally impossible. He stood there, right in Dr.
Grimstone's path, with terrified starting eyes and quivering limbs, more
like an unhappy guinea-pig expecting the advances of a boa, than a
British merchant in the presence of his son's schoolmaster! He was sick
and faint with alarm, and the consciousness that appearances were all
against him.

There was nothing in the least extraordinary in the fact of the Doctor's
presence at the station. Mr. Bultitude might easily have taken this
into account as a very likely contingency and have provided accordingly,
had he troubled to think, for it was Dr. Grimstone's custom, upon the
first day of the term, to come up to town and meet as many of his pupils
upon the platform as intended to return by a train previously specified
at the foot of the school-bills; and Paul had even expressly insisted
upon Dick's travelling under surveillance in this manner, thinking it
necessary to keep him out of premature mischief.

It makes a calamity doubly hard to bear when one looks back and sees by
what a trivial chance it has come upon us, and how slight an effort
would have averted it altogether; and Mr. Bultitude cursed his own
stupidity as he stood there, rooted to the ground, and saw the hansom (a
"patent safety" to him in sober earnest) drive off and abandon him to
his fate.

Dr. Grimstone bore down heavily upon him and Jolland, who had by this
time come up. He was a tall and imposing personage, with a strong black
beard and small angry grey eyes, slightly blood-tinged; he wore garments
of a semi-clerical cut and colour, though he was not in orders. He held
out a hand to each with elaborate geniality
And before Paul could protest, he had purchased tickets for all three,
after which he laid an authoritative hand upon Mr. Bultitude's shoulder
and walked him out through the booking hall upon the platform
thought Paul, shrinking involuntarily
As if in answer to the wish, the Doctor guided him by a slight pressure
straight along by the end of the station, saying to Jolland as he did
so
When they were alone the Doctor paced solemnly along in silence for some
moments, while Paul, who had always been used to consider himself a
fairly prominent object, whatever might be his surroundings, began to
feel an altogether novel sensation of utter insignificance upon that
immense brown plain of platform and under the huge span of the arches
whose girders were lost in wreaths of mingled fog and smoke.

Still he had some hope. Was it not possible, after all, that the Doctor
had divined his secret and was searching for words delicate enough to
convey his condolences
said the Doctor presently, and his
first words dashed all Paul's rising hopes
thought Paul, but he said
nothing
At any other time Mr. Bultitude might have felt gratified by these
eulogies, but just then he was conscious that he could lay no claim to
them. It was Dick who had the noble heart now, and he himself felt even
less of a devoted parent than he looked
continued Dr. Grimstone
Paul was a little staggered. He remembered having written, but he would
scarcely perhaps have described his letter as
as he had not
done much more than enclose a cheque for his son's account and object to
the items for pew-rent and scientific lectures with the diorama as
excessive
A few minutes ago, and it would have seemed to Paul so simple and easy a
matter to point out to the Doctor the very excusable error into which he
had fallen. It was no more than he would have to do repeatedly upon his
return, and here was an excellent opportunity for an explanation.

But, somehow the words would not come. The schoolmaster's form seemed so
tremendous and towering, and he so feeble and powerless before him, that
he soon persuaded himself that a public place, like a station platform,
was no scene for domestic revelations of so painful a character.

He gave up all idea of resistance at present
he thought
But in spite of his determination to unbosom himself without further
delay, he knew that a kind of fascinated resignation was growing upon
him and gaining firmer hold each minute.

Something must be done to break the spell and burst the toils which were
being woven round him before all effort became impossible
said the Doctor, glancing up at the great clock-face on which
a reflector cast a patch of dim yellow light
And they walked back towards the book-stalls with their cheery warmth
of colour, past the glittering buffet, and on up the platform, to a part
where six boys of various sizes were standing huddled forlornly together
under a gaslight
said Dr. Grimstone, with a slight touch of the ogre in his tone
And the six boys came forward, all evidently in the lowest spirits, and
raised their tall hats with a studied politeness
said the Doctor, impelling the
unwilling Paul towards the group
And, with a horrible dream-like sense of unreality, Mr. Bultitude found
himself being greeted by several entire strangers with a degree of
warmth embarrassing in the extreme.

He would have liked to protest and declare himself there and then in his
true colours, but if this had been difficult alone with the Doctor under
the clock, it was impossible now, and he submitted ruefully enough to
their unwelcome advances.

Tipping, a tall, red-haired, raw-boned boy, with sleeves and trousers he
had outgrown, and immense boots, wrung Paul's hand with misdirected
energy, saying
with a gruff superiority, mercifully
tempered by a touch of sheepishness.

Coggs and Coker welcomed him with open arms as an equal, while Siggers,
a short, slight, sharp-featured boy, with a very fashionable hat and
shirt-collars, and a horse-shoe pin, drawled
with the languor of a confirmed man about town.

The other two were Biddlecomb, a boy with a blooming complexion and a
singularly sweet voice, and the new-comer, Kiffin, who did not seem much
more at home in the society of other boys than Mr. Bultitude himself,
for he kept nervously away from them, shivering with the piteous
self-abandonment of an Italian greyhound.

Paul was now convinced that unless he exerted himself considerably, his
identity with his son would never even be questioned, and the danger
roused him to a sudden determination.

However his face and figure might belie him, nothing in his speech or
conduct should encourage the mistake. Whatever it might cost him to
overcome his fear of the Doctor, he would force himself to act and talk
ostentatiously, as much like his own ordinary self as possible, during
the journey down to Market Rodwell, so as to prepare the Doctor's mind
for the disclosures he meant to make at the earliest opportunity. He was
beginning to see that the railway carriage, with all those boys sitting
by and staring, would be an inconvenient place for so delicate and
difficult a confession.

The guard having warned intending passengers to take their seats, and
Jolland, who had been unaccountably missing all this time, having
appeared from the direction of the refreshment buffet, furtively
brushing away some suspicious-looking flakes and crumbs from his coat,
and contrived to join the party unperceived, they all got into a
first-class compartment -- Paul with the rest.

He longed for moral courage to stand out boldly and refuse to leave
town, but, as we have seen, it was beyond his powers, and he temporised.
Very soon the whistle had sounded and the train had begun to glide
slowly out beyond the platform and arch, past the signal boxes and long
low sheds and offices which are the suburbs of a large terminus -- and
then it was too late
_Essays of
     Elia._


For some time after they were fairly started the Doctor read his evening
paper with an air of impartial but severe criticism, and Mr. Bultitude
as he sat opposite him next to the window, found himself overwhelmed
with a new and very unpleasant timidity.

He knew that, if he would free himself, this utterly unreasonable
feeling must be wrestled with and overcome; that now, if ever, was the
time to assert himself, and prove that he was anything but the raw youth
he was conscious of appearing. He had merely to speak and act, too, in
his ordinary everyday manner; to forget as far as possible the change
that had affected his outer man, which was not so very difficult to do
after all -- and yet his heart sank lower and lower as each fresh
telegraph post flitted past
he thought
But there was more fear than caution in the resolve.

At last, however, the Doctor laid down his paper, and, looking round
with the glance of proprietorship on his pupils, who had relapsed into a
decorous and gloomy silence, observed
This announcement (which by no means relieved the general
depression -- the boys receiving it with a sickly interest) was good news
to Paul, and even had the effect of making him forget his position for
the time
he said heartily
A burglar enlarging upon the sanctity of the law of property, or a sheep
exposing the fallacies of vegetarianism, could hardly have produced a
greater sensation.

Every boy was roused from his languor to stare and wonder at these
traitorous sentiments, which, from the mouth of any but a known and
tried companion, would have roused bitter hostility and contempt. As it
was, their wonder became a rapturous admiration, and they waited for the
situation to develop with a fearful and secret joy.

It was some time before the Doctor quite recovered himself; then he said
with a grim smile
Then, as
if to dismiss a doubtful subject, he inquired generally
There was no attempt to answer this question, it being felt probably
that it was, like the conventional
one to which an
answer is neither desired nor expected, especially as he continued
almost immediately
No one seemed capable of responding except Mr. Bultitude, who dashed
into the breach with an almost pathetic effort to maintain his
accustomed stiffness
he said
Dr. Grimstone made no answer, but he put a hand on each knee, and glared
with pursed lips and a leonine bristle of the beard at his youthful
critic for some moments, after which he returned to his _Globe_ with a
short ominous cough
thought Paul
So he began at the first opportunity
said the Doctor shortly
said poor Mr. Bultitude, with a
desperate attempt at his most conversational and instructive manner
he hoped to lead the conversation round to colonial
produce, and thus open the Doctor's eyes by the extent of his
acquaintance with the subject
said the Doctor, with dangerous politeness
said Paul
said the Doctor, with some impatience
But he glanced over the top of the paper at the indignant Paul, who was
not accustomed to have his information received in this manner, with
less suspicion and a growing conviction that some influence during the
holidays had changed the boy from a graceless young scapegrace into a
prig of the first water
Mr. Bultitude told himself
And so he applied himself once more
he began
And he felt for his cigar-case, really forgetting that it was gone, like
all other incidents of his old self; while Jolland giggled with
unrestrained delight at such charming effrontery
said the Doctor, now effectually roused
thought Paul
So he began again
said Paul, much pleased
said the Doctor under his breath
he said aloud
Paul said to himself
But by-and-by, the open window made him break his resolution
he said, with the air of one used
to having his way in these matters
The Doctor pulled up the window with a frown, and yet a somewhat puzzled
expression
he said
thought Paul
And he leant back in his seat in a much easier frame of mind; it was
annoying, of course, to have been turned out of his warm dining-room,
and sent all the way down to Market Rodwell on a fool's errand like
this; but still, if nothing worse came of it, he could put up with the
temporary inconvenience, and it was a great relief to be spared the
necessity of an explanation.

The other boys watched him furtively with growing admiration, which
expressed itself in subdued whispers, varied by little gurgles and
"squirks" of laughter; they tried to catch his eye and stimulate him to
further feats of audacity, but Mr. Bultitude, of course, repulsed all
such overtures with a coldness and severity which at once baffled and
piqued them.

At last his eccentricity took a shape which considerably lessened their
enthusiasm. Kiffin, the new boy, occupied the seat next to Paul; he was
a nervous-looking little fellow, with a pale face and big pathetic brown
eyes like a seal's, and his dress bore plain evidence of a mother's
careful supervision, having all the uncreased trimness and specklessness
rarely to be observed except in the toilettes of the waxen prodigies in
a shop-window.

It happened that, as he lay back in the padded seat between the
sheltering partitions, watching the sickly yellow dregs of oil surging
dismally to and fro with the motion in the lamp overhead, or the black
indistinct forms flitting past through the misty blue outside, the
pathos of his situation became all at once too much for him.

He was a home-bred boy, without any of that taste for the companionship
and pursuits of his fellows, or capacity for adapting himself to their
prejudices and requirements, which give some home-bred boys a ready
passport into the roughest communities.

His heart throbbed with no excited curiosity, no conscious pride, at
this his first important step in life; he was a forlorn little stranger,
in an unsympathetic strange land, and was only too well aware of his
position.

So that it is not surprising that as he thought of the home he had left
an hour or two ago which now seemed so shadowy, so inaccessible and
remote, his eyes began to smart and sting, and his chest to heave
ominously, until he felt it necessary to do something to give a partial
vent to his emotions and prevent a public and disgraceful exhibition of
grief.

Unhappily for him he found this safety-valve in a series of suppressed
but distinctly audible sniffs.

Mr. Bultitude bore this for some time with no other protest than an
occasional indignant bounce or a lowering frown in the offender's
direction, but at last his nerves, strung already to a high pitch by all
he had undergone, could stand it no longer
he said with polite determination
said the Doctor
faltered Kiffin
Mr. Bultitude fell back into his seat with a gasp. It was hard to be
accused of caricaturing one's own self, particularly when conscious of
entire innocence in that respect, but even this was slight in comparison
with the discovery that he had been so blindly deceiving himself!

The Doctor evidently had failed to penetrate his disguise, and the
dreaded scene of elaborate explanation must be gone through after all.

The boys (with the exception of Kiffin) still found exquisite enjoyment
in this extraordinary and original exhibition, and waited eagerly for
further experiment on the Doctor's patience.

They were soon gratified. If there was one thing Paul detested more than
another, it was the smell of peppermint -- no less than three office boys
had been discharged by him because, as he alleged, they made the clerks'
room reek with it,-- and now the subtle searching odour of the hated
confection was gradually stealing into the compartment and influencing
its atmosphere.

He looked at Coggs, who sat on the seat opposite to him, and saw his
cheeks and lips moving in slow and appreciative absorption of something.
Coggs was clearly the culprit
he inquired, fuming
said the
Doctor pointedly
said Paul
said Paul, pointing the finger of denunciation at
the astonished Coggs
demanded the Doctor in an
awful voice.

Coggs, after making several attempts to bolt the offending lozenge, and
turning scarlet meanwhile with confusion and coughing, stammered huskily
something to the effect that he had
which he seemed to consider, for some reason, a mitigating
circumstance
said the Doctor.

Very slowly and reluctantly Coggs brought out of one pocket after
another three or four neat little white packets, make up with that
lavish expenditure of time, string, and sealing-wax, by which the
struggling chemist seeks to reconcile the public mind to a charge of two
hundred and fifty per cent. on cost price, and handed them to Dr.
Grimstone, who solemnly unfastened them one by one, glanced at their
contents with infinite disgust, and flung them out of window.

Then he turned to Paul with a look of more favour than he had yet shown
him
he said
said Paul
Here he broke off with a sharp yell, and began to rub his ankle
So, Coker" (Coker wore a blue necktie), said the Doctor
Six pairs of sulky glowering eyes were fixed upon the unconscious Paul
for the rest of the journey; indignant protests and dark vows of
vengeance were muttered under cover of the friendly roar and rattle of
tunnels. But the object of them heard nothing; his composure was
returning once more in the sunshine of Dr. Grimstone's approbation, and
he almost decided on declaring himself in the station fly.

And now at last the train was grinding along discordantly with the
brakes on, and, after a little preliminary jolting and banging over the
points, drew up at a long lighted platform, where melancholy porters
paced up and down, croaking
like so many Solomon
Eagles predicting woe.

Paul got out with the others, and walked forward to the guard's van,
where he stood shivering in the raw night air by a small heap of
portmanteaux and white clamped boxes
he thought
Dr. Grimstone certainly did not seem in a very receptive mood for
confidences just then. No flys were to be seen, which he took as a
personal outrage, and visited upon the station-master in hot
indignation
he was saying
Paul Bultitude was perhaps more relieved than disappointed by this
postponement of a disagreeable interview, though, if he had seen Coker
dig Coggs in the side with a chuckle of exultant triumph, he might have
had misgivings as to the prudence of trusting himself alone with them.

As it was he almost determined to trust the pair with his secret
he said to himself
So he went on briskly ahead over a covered bridge and down some
break-neck wooden steps, and passed through the wicket out upon the
railed-in space, where the cabs and omnibuses should have been, but
which was now a blank spectral waste with a white ground-fog lurking
round its borders.

Here he was joined by his companions, who, after a little whispering,
came up one on either side and put an arm through each of his
said Paul, thinking to banter them agreeably
said Coggs when they had
cleared the gates and palings
said Coker
put in Coker
stammered Paul
demanded Coker
added Coggs
said Mr.
Bultitude
But his arguments, convincing as they promised to be, were brought to a
sudden and premature close by Coker, who slipped behind him and
administered a sharp jog below his back, which jarred his spine and
caused him infinite agony
cried Paul
But upon this Coggs did the very same thing only harder
they both observed
severely, as some justification for repeating the process
said Coker
But Mr. Bultitude, though he longed for peace and quietness, dreaded
doing or saying anything to favour the impression that he was the
schoolboy he unluckily appeared to be, and he had not skill and tact
enough to dissemble and assume a familiar genial tone of equality with
these rough boys
he protested feebly
said the relentless Coggs
said poor Mr. Bultitude
said Coggs firmly
And he gave Paul an interesting illustration of the latter branch of
industry by twisting his right arm round and round till he nearly
wrenched it out of the socket, while Coker seized his left hand and
pounded it vigorously with the first joint of his forefinger, causing
the unfortunate Paul to yell for mercy.

At last he could bear no more, and breaking away from his tormentors
with a violent effort, he ran frantically down the silent road towards a
house which he knew from former visits to be Dr. Grimstone's.

He was but languidly pursued, and, as the distance was short, he soon
gained a gate on the stuccoed posts of which he could read "Crichton
House" by the light of a neighbouring gas-lamp
he thought, as he reached it breathless and
trembling
He had hoped to reach sanctuary before the other two could overtake him;
but he soon discovered that the gate was shut fast, and all his efforts
would not bring him within reach of the bell-handle -- he was too short.

So he sat down on the doorstep in resigned despair, and waited for his
enemies. Behind the gate was a large many-windowed house, with steps
leading up to a portico. In the playground to his right the school
gymnasium, a great gallows-like erection, loomed black and grim through
the mist, the night wind favouring the ghastliness of its appearance by
swaying the ropes till they creaked and moaned weirdly on the hooks, and
the metal stirrups clinked and clashed against one another in irregular
cadence.

He had no time to observe more, as Coker and Coggs joined him, and, on
finding he had not rung the bell, seized the occasion to pummel him at
their leisure before announcing their arrival.

Then the gate was opened, and the three -- the revengeful pair assuming an
air of lamb-like inoffensiveness -- entered the hall and were met by Mrs.
Grimstone
she said, with an air of surprise, and kissing them
with real kindness
Mr. Bultitude submitted to be kissed with some reluctance, inwardly
hoping that Dr. Grimstone might never hear of it.

Mrs. Grimstone, it may be said here, was a stout, fair woman, not in the
least intellectual or imposing, but with a warm heart, and a way of
talking to and about boys that secured her the confidence of mothers
more effectually, perhaps, than the most polished conversation and
irreproachable deportment could have done.

She did not reserve her motherliness for the reception room either, as
some schoolmasters' wives have a tendency to do, and the smallest boy
felt less homesick when he saw her.

She opened a green baize outer door, and the door beyond it, and led
them into a long high room, with desks and forms placed against the
walls, and a writing table, and line of brown-stained tables down the
middle. Opposite the windows there was a curious structure of shelves
partitioned into lockers, and filled with rows of shabby schoolbooks.

The room had been originally intended for a drawing-room, as was evident
from the inevitable white and gold wall-paper and the tarnished gilt
beading round the doors and window shutters; the mantelpiece, too, was
of white marble, and the gaselier fitted with dingy crystal lustres.

But sad-coloured maps hung on the ink-splashed walls, and a clock with a
blank idiotic face (it is not every clock that possesses a decently
intelligent expression) ticked over the gilt pier-glass. The boards were
uncarpeted, and stained with patches of ink of all sizes and ages; while
the atmosphere, in spite of the blazing fire, had a scholastic blending
of soap and water, ink and slate-pencil in its composition, which
produced a chill and depressing effect.

On the forms opposite the fire some ten or twelve boys were sitting, a
few comparing notes as to their holiday experiences with some approach
to vivacity. The rest, with hands in pockets and feet stretched towards
the blaze, seemed lost in melancholy abstraction
said Mrs. Grimstone cheerfully
And she left
them with a reassuring nod, though the prospect of Tom's company did not
perhaps elate them as much as it was intended to do.

Mr. Bultitude felt much as if he had suddenly been dropped down a
bear-pit, and, avoiding welcome and observation as well as he could, got
away into a corner, from which he observed his new companions with
uneasy apprehension
said one boy, resuming the interrupted conversation
asked another
said a pale, spiteful-looking
boy, with fair hair carefully parted in the middle
asked one or two near him languidly
The unfortunate Skidmore, when he returned, soon found reason to regret
his rash hospitality, for he never heard the last of the cake (which
had, as it happened, been paid for in the usual manner) during the rest
of the term.

There was a slight laugh at the enormity of Mrs. Skidmore's presumption,
and then a long pause, after which some one asked suddenly
said a big, heavy boy, and his hope seemed echoed with a
general fervour
said several, with an evident relief, and some one was
just observing that they had had enough of the sneaking business, when a
fly was heard to drive up, and the bell rang, whereupon everyone
abandoned his easy attitude, and seemed to brace himself up for a trying
encounter
they whispered under their breaths, as
voices and footsteps were heard in the hall outside.

Presently the door of the schoolroom opened, and another boy entered the
room. Dr. Grimstone, it appeared, had not been the occupant of the fly,
after all. The new-comer was a tall, narrow-shouldered, stooping fellow,
with a sallow, unwholesome complexion, thin lips, and small sunken
brown eyes. His cheeks were creased with a dimpling subsmile, half
uneasy, half malicious, and his tread was mincing and catlike
he said.

All rose at once, and shook hands effusively
they
cried
There was a heartiness in their manner somewhat at variance with their
recent expressions of opinion; but they had doubtless excellent reasons
for any inconsistency
said Chawner, in a low, soft voice, which had a suggestion of
feminine spitefulness
He laughed with a little malevolent cackle as he spoke, and the three
boys named laughed too, though with no great heartiness, and shifting
the while uneasily on their seats.

After this sally the conversation languished until Tom Grimstone's
appearance. He strolled in with a semi-professional air, and shook hands
with affability.

Tom was a short, flabby, sandy-haired youth, not particularly beloved of
his comrades, and his first remark was
which, as a contribution to the general liveliness, was a
distinct failure.

Needless to say, the work imposed as a holiday occupation had been first
deferred, then forgotten, then remembered too late, and recklessly
defied with the confidence begotten in a home atmosphere.

Amidst a general silence Chawner happened to see Mr. Bultitude in his
corner, and crossed over to him
Paul growled something indistinctly, feeling strangely uncomfortable
and confused
asked Chawner
said Coker
And Dr. Grimstone really did arrive at this point, much to Paul's
relief, and looked in to give a grip of the hand and a few words to
those of the boys he had not seen.

Biddlecomb, Tipping, and the rest, came in with him, and the schoolroom
soon filled with others arriving by later trains, amongst the later
comers being the two house-masters, Mr. Blinkhorn and Mr. Tinkler; and
there followed a season of bustle and conversation, which lasted until
the Doctor touched a small hand-bell, and ordered them to sit down round
the tables while supper was brought in.

Mr. Bultitude was not sorry to hear the word
He was faint and
dispirited, and although he had dined not very long since, thought that
perhaps a little cold beef and beer, or some warmed-up trifle, might
give him courage to tell his misfortunes before bedtime.

Of one thing he felt certain. Nothing should induce him to trust his
person in a bedroom with any of those violent and vindictive boys;
whether he succeeded in declaring himself that night or not, he would at
least insist on a separate bedroom. Meantime he looked forward to supper
as likely to restore geniality and confidence.

But the supper announced so imposingly proved to consist of nothing more
than two plates piled with small pieces of thinly-buttered bread, which
a page handed round together with tumblers of water; and Paul, in his
disappointment, refused this refreshment with more firmness than
politeness, as Dr. Grimstone observed
he said sternly
Mr. Bultitude, feeling the necessity of propitiating him, hastened to
take the two largest squares of bread and butter on the plate. They were
moist and thick, and he had considerable difficulty in disposing of
them, besides the gratification of hearing himself described as a "pig"
by his neighbours, who reproved him with a refreshing candour
he thought, ruefully
Bedtime came at length. The boys filed, one by one, out of the room, and
the Doctor stood by the door to shake hands with them as they passed.

Mr. Bultitude lingered until the others had gone, for he had made up his
mind to seize this opportunity to open the Doctor's eyes to the mistake
he was making. But he felt unaccountably nervous; the diplomatic and
well-chosen introduction he had carefully prepared had left him at the
critical moment; all power of thought was gone with it, and he went
tremblingly up to the schoolmaster, feeling hopelessly at the mercy of
anything that chose to come out of his mouth
he began
said the Doctor, catching him up sharply
said Paul hopelessly
said Paul, recovering himself
said the Doctor
said Mr. Bultitude, losing his temper
said the Doctor with terrible grimness
And, incredible as it may appear to all who have never been in his
position, Mr. Bultitude went. It was almost an abdication, it was
treachery to his true self; he knew the vital importance of firmness at
this crisis. But nevertheless his courage gave way all at once, and he
crawled up the bare, uncarpeted stairs without any further protest
said a housemaid, meeting him on the
staircase
Paul dragged himself up to the highest landing-stage, and, with a sick
foreboding, opened the door on which the figure 6 was painted.

It was a large bare plainly papered room, with several curtainless
windows, the blinds of which were drawn, a long deal stand of wash-hand
basins, and eight little white beds against the walls.

A fire was lighted in consideration of its being the first night, and
several boys were talking excitedly round it
they cried, as Paul entered nervously
Mr. Bultitude felt powerless among all these young wolves. He had no
knowledge of boys, nor any notion of acquiring an influence over them,
having hitherto regarded them as necessary nuisances, to be rather
repressed than studied. He could only stare hopelessly at them in
fascinated silence
said Tipping
pleaded Biddlecomb, and Paul
felt gratefully towards him at the words
said Paul, thinking, not without
reason, that this course of treatment was likely to prove painful
As this appeal was not of a very conciliatory nature they at once
proceeded to form a circle round him and, judging their distance with
great accuracy, jerked towels at his person with such diabolical
dexterity that the wet corners cut him at all points like so many fine
thongs, and he span round like a top, dancing, and, I regret to add,
swearing violently, at the pain.

When he was worked up almost to frenzy pitch Biddlecomb's sweet low
voice cried
At this they all cast off such of their clothes as they still wore, and
slipped modestly and peacefully into bed, just as Dr. Grimstone's large
form appeared at the doorway. Mr. Bultitude made as much haste as he
could, but did not escape a reprimand from the Doctor as he turned the
gas out; and as soon as he had made the round of the bedrooms and his
heavy tread had died away down the staircase, the light-hearted
occupants of No. 6 "lammed" it into the unhappy Paul until they were
tired of the exercise and left him to creep sore and trembling with rage
and fright into his cold hard bed.

Then, after a little desultory conversation, one by one sank from
incoherence into silence, and rose from silence to snores, while Paul
alone lay sleepless, listening to the creeping tinkle of the dying fire,
drearily wondering at the marvellous change that had come over his life
and fortunes in the last few hours, and feverishly composing impassioned
appeals which were to touch the Doctor's heart and convince his reason
Sleep came at last, and brought too brief forgetfulness. It was not till
the dull grey light of morning was glimmering through the blinds that
Mr. Bultitude awoke to his troubles.

The room was bitterly cold, and he remained shivering in bed for some
time, trying to realise and prepare for his altered condition.

He was the only one awake. Now and then from one of the beds around a
boy would be heard talking in his sleep, or laughing with holiday
glee -- at the drolleries possibly of some pantomime performed for his
amusement in the Theatre Royal, Dreamland -- a theatre mercifully open to
all boys free of charge, long after the holidays have come to an end,
the only drawbacks being a certain want of definiteness in the plot and
scenery, and a liability to premature termination of the vaguely
splendid performance.

Once Kiffin, the new boy, awoke with a start and a heavy sigh, but he
cried himself to sleep again almost immediately.

Mr. Bultitude could bear being inactive no longer. He thought, if he got
up, he might perhaps see his misfortunes shrink to a more bearable, less
hopeless scale, and besides, he judged it prudent, for many reasons, to
finish his toilet before the sleepers began theirs.

Very stealthily, dreading to rouse anyone and attract attention in the
form of slippers, he broke the clinking crust of ice in one of the
basins and, shuddering from the shock, bathed face and hands in the
biting water. He parted his hair, which from natural causes he had been
unable to accomplish for some years, and now found an awkwardness in
accomplishing neatly, and then stole down the dark creaking staircase
just as the butler in the hall began to swing the big railway bell which
was to din stern reality into the sleepy ears above.

In the schoolroom a yawning maid had just lighted the fire, from which
turbid yellow clouds of sulphurous smoke were pouring into the room,
making it necessary to open the windows and lower a temperature that was
far from high originally.

Paul stood shaking by the mantelpiece in a very bad temper for some
minutes. If the Doctor had come in then, he might have been spurred by
indignation to utter his woes, and even claim and obtain his freedom.
But that was not to be.

The door did open presently, however, and a little girl appeared; a very
charming little maiden indeed, in a neat dark costume relieved by a
fresh white pinafore. She had deep grey eyes and glossy brown hair
falling over her forehead and down her back in soft straight masses, her
face was oval rather than round, and slightly serious, though her smile
was pretty and gay.

She ran towards Mr. Bultitude with a glad little cry, stretching out her
hands
she said
Some might have been very glad to be welcomed in this way, even
vicariously. As for boys, it must have been a very bad school indeed
which Dulcie Grimstone could not have robbed of much of its terrors.

Mr. Bultitude, however, as has been explained, did not appreciate
children -- being a family man himself. When one sees their petty
squabbles and jealousies, hears their cruel din, and pays for their
monkeyish mischief, perhaps the daintiest children seem but an earthly
order of cherubim. He was only annoyed and embarrassed by the
interruption, though he endured it
he said with condescension
Dulcie stopped and looked at him, with drawn eyebrows and her soft mouth
quivering
she asked
said Paul
said Dulcie plaintively
thought Mr. Bultitude
he
said aloud
cried Dulcie indignantly
said Paul dismally
said Dulcie
said Mr. Bultitude
sobbed Dulcie
And, to Paul's horror and alarm, she put her arms round
his neck, and cried piteously on his shoulder
he cried
But it was too late. Over her head he saw Tipping enter the room, and
stand glaring at them menacingly. Dulcie saw him too, and sprang away to
the window, where she tried to dry her eyes unperceived, and then ran
past him with a hurried good morning, and escaped, leaving Paul alone
with the formidable Tipping.

There was an awkward silence at first, which Tipping broke by saying
said Paul, trying to keep his voice firm
said Tipping
said Paul angrily
said Tipping, edging up against him
with a dangerous inclination first to jostle aggressively, and then maul
his unconscious rival
At this point the other boys began to straggle down and cluster round
the fire, and Paul withdrew from the aggrieved Tipping, and looked
drearily out of the window on the hard road and bare black trees
outside
he thought
It was not without satisfaction that he remembered that he paid extra
for "meat for breakfast" in his son's school-bills, for he was beginning
to look forward to meal-time with the natural desire of a young and
healthy frame for nourishment.

At eight o'clock the Doctor came in and announced breakfast, leading
the way himself to what was known in the school as the
It
scarcely deserved so high-sounding a name perhaps, being a long low room
on the basement floor, with a big fireplace, fitted with taps, and
baking ovens, which provoked the suspicion that it had begun existence
as a back kitchen.

The Doctor took his seat alone at a cross table forming the top of one
of the two rows of tables, set with white cups and saucers, and plates
well heaped with the square pieces of bread and butter, while Mrs.
Grimstone with Dulcie and Tom, sat at the foot of the same row, behind
two ugly urns of dull block-tin.

But when Mr. Bultitude, more hungry than he had felt for years, found
his place at one of the tables, he was disgusted to find upon his
plate -- not, as he had confidently expected, a couple of plump poached
eggs, with their appetising contrast of ruddy gold and silvery white,
not a crisp and crackling sausage or a mottled omelette, not even the
homely but luscious rasher, but a brace of chill forbidding sardines,
lying grim and headless in bilious green oil!

It was a fish he positively loathed, nor could it be reasonably expected
that the confidence necessary for a declaration was to be forgotten by
so sepulchral a form of nutriment.

He roused himself, however, to swallow them, together with some of the
thin and tin-flavoured coffee. But the meal as a whole was so different
from the plentiful well-cooked breakfasts he had sat down before for
years as a matter of course, that it made him feel extremely unwell.

No talking was allowed during the meal. The Doctor now and then looked
up from his dish of kidneys on toast (at which envious glances were
occasionally cast) to address a casual remark to his wife across the
long row of plates and cups, but, as a rule, the dull champing sound of
boys solemnly and steadily munching was all that broke the silence.

Towards the end, when the plates had been generally cleared, and the
boys sat staring with the stolidity of repletion at one another across
the tables, the junior house-master, Mr. Tinkler, made his appearance.
He had lately left a small and little-known college at Cambridge, where
he had contrived, contrary to expectation, to evade the uncoveted wooden
spoon by just two places, which enabled the Doctor to announce himself
as being
For the rest, he was a small insignificant-looking person, who evidently
disliked the notice his late appearance drew upon himself
said the Doctor in his most awful voice
Mr. Tinkler made no articulate reply, but sat down with a crushed
expression, and set himself to devour bread and butter with an energy
which he hoped would divert attention from his blushes; and almost
immediately the Doctor looked at his watch and said
Mr. Tinkler preferred leaving his breakfast to continuing it under the
trying ordeal of his principal's inspection. So, hastily murmuring that
he had
which he had not -- he followed the
others, who clattered upstairs to put on their boots and go out into the
playground.

It was noticeable that they did so without much of the enthusiasm which
might be looked for from boys dismissed to their sports. But the fact
was that this particular sport
commonly known as
was by no means a popular amusement, being of a somewhat
monotonous nature, and calling for no special skill on the part of the
performers. Besides this, moreover, it had the additional disadvantage
(which would have been fatal to a far more fascinating diversion) of
being in a great measure compulsory.

Football and cricket were of course reserved for half-holidays, and
played in a neighbouring field rented by the Doctor, and in the
playground he restricted them to
which he considered, rightly
enough, both gave them abundant exercise and kept them out of mischief.
Accordingly, if any adventurous spirit started a rival game, it was
usually abandoned sooner or later in deference to suggestions from
headquarters which were not intended to be disregarded.

This, though undoubtedly well meant, did not serve to stimulate their
affection for the game, an excellent one in moderation, but one which,
if played "by special desire" two or three hours a day for weeks in
succession is apt to lose its freshness and pall upon the youthful mind.

It was a bright morning. There had been a hard frost during the night,
and the ground was hard, sparkling with rime and ringing to the foot.
The air was keen and invigorating, and the bare black branches of the
trees were outlined clear and sharp against the pale pure blue of the
morning sky.

Just the weather for a long day's skating over the dark green glassy
ice, or a bracing tramp on country roads into cheery red-roofed market
towns. But now it had lost all power to charm. It was almost depressing
by the contrast between the boundless liberty suggested, and the dull
reality of a round of uninteresting work which was all it heralded.

So they lounged listlessly about, gravitating finally towards the end of
the playground, where a deep furrow marked the line of the base. There
was no attempt to play. They stood gossiping in knots, grumbling and
stamping their feet to keep warm. By-and-by the day-boarders began to
drop in one by one, several of them, from a want of tact in adapting
themselves to the general tone, earning decided unpopularity at once by
a cheerful briskness and an undisguised satisfaction at having something
definite to do once more.

If Mr. Tinkler, who had joined one of the groups, had not particularly
distinguished himself at breakfast, he made ample amends now, and by the
grandeur and manliness of his conversation succeeded in producing a
decided impression upon some of the smaller boys
he was saying with
magnificent disdain
It could hardly have looked worse than little Mr. Tinkler himself would
have done, if he had ventured upon more than the mildest of cigarettes,
for he was a poor but pertinacious smoker, and his love for the weed was
chastened by wholesome fear. There, however, he was in no danger of
betraying this, and indeed it would have been injudicious to admit it
he went on, with a soft chuckle, as at
recollections of unspeakable devilry
Pothouse
Cats
inquired a small boy with great respect
said Mr. Tinkler lightly
With such tales of Homeric exploit did Mr. Tinkler inculcate a spirit of
discipline and respect for authority. But although he had indeed once
encountered a Proctor, and at night, he did himself great injustice by
this version of the proceedings, which were, as a matter of fact, of a
most peaceable and law-abiding character, and though followed by a
pecuniary transaction the next day in which six-and-eightpence changed
pockets, the Proctors continued their duties much as before, while Mr.
Tinkler's feelings towards them, which had ever been reverential in the
extreme, were, if anything, intensified by the experience.

Upon this incident, however, he had gradually embroidered the above
exciting episode, until he grew to believe at intervals that he really
had been a devil of a fellow in his time, which, to do him justice, was
far from the case.

He might have gone on still further to calumniate himself, and excite
general envy and admiration thereby, if at that moment Dr. Grimstone had
not happened to appear at the head of the cast-iron staircase that led
down into the playground; whereupon Mr. Tinkler affected to be intensely
interested in the game, which, as a kind of involuntary compliment to
the principal, about this time was galvanised into a sort of vigour.

But the Doctor, after frowning gloomily down upon them for a minute or
so, suddenly called
He had several ways of saying this. Sometimes he would do so in a
half-regretful tone, as one himself obeying the call of duty; sometimes
he would appear for some minutes, a benignant spectator, upon the
balcony, and summon them to work at length with a lenient pity -- for he
was by no means a hard-hearted man; but at other times he would step
sharply and suddenly out and shout the word of command with a grim and
ominous expression. On these last occasions the school generally
prepared itself for a rather formidable quarter of an hour.

This was the case now and, as a further portent, Mr. Blinkhorn was
observed to come down and, after a few words with Mr. Tinkler, withdrew
with him through the school gate
said Siggers, who was skilled in omens
Rows at Crichton House, although periodical, and therefore things to be
forearmed against in some degree, were serious matters. Dr. Grimstone
was a quick-tempered man, with a copious flow of words and a taste for
indulging it. He was also strongly prejudiced against many breaches of
discipline which others might have considered trifling, and whenever he
had discovered any such breach he could not rest until by all the means
in his power he had ascertained exactly how many were implicated in the
offence, and to what extent.

His usual method of doing this was to summon the school formally
together and deliver an elaborate harangue, during which he worked
himself by degrees into such a state of indignation that his hearers
were most of them terrified out of their senses, and very often
conscience-stricken offenders would give themselves up as hopelessly
detected and reveal transgressions altogether unsuspected by him -- much
as a net brings up fish of all degrees of merit, or as heavy firing will
raise drowned corpses to the surface.

Paul naturally knew nothing of this peculiarity; he had kept himself as
usual apart from the others, and was now trying to compel himself to
brave the terrors of an avowal at the first opportunity. He followed the
others up the steps with an uneasy wonder whether, after all, he would
not find himself ignominiously set down to learn lessons.

The boys filed into the schoolroom in solemn silence, and took their
seats at the desks and along the brown tables. The Doctor was there
before them, standing up with one elbow resting upon a reading-stand,
and with a suggestion of coming thunder in his look and attitude that,
combined with the oppressive silence, made some of the boys feel
positively ill.

Presently he began. He said that, since they had come together again, he
had made a discovery concerning one among them which, astounding as it
was to him, and painful as he felt it to be compelled to make it known,
concerned them all to be aware of.

Mr. Bultitude could scarcely believe his ears. His secret was
discovered, then; the injury done him by Dick about to be repaired, and
open restitution and apology offered him! It was not perhaps precisely
delicate on the Doctor's part to make so public an affair of it, but so
long as it ended well, he could afford to overlook that.

So he settled himself comfortably on a form with his back against a
desk and his legs crossed, his expression indicating plainly that he
knew what was coming and, on the whole, approved of it
continued
the Doctor
Here he paused, and fixed one or two of those nearest him with the
fatherly eye in such a manner that they writhed with confusion
thought Paul, a little puzzled
here he began gradually to relax his self-restraint and lash
himself into a frenzy of indignation
At this every boy, beginning to see the tendency of his denunciations,
tried hard to assume an air of conscious innocence and grieved interest,
the majority achieving conspicuous failure
said Dr. Grimstone
To this invitation, which indeed resembled that of the duck-destroying
Mrs. Bond, no one made any response. They had grown too wary, and now
preferred to play a waiting game
thundered the Doctor, now warmed to his theme.

But the being declined from a feeling of modesty, and a faint hope that
somebody else might, after all, be the person aimed at
stormed Dr. Grimstone
Coggs half rose in a limp manner, whimpering feebly
Here, needless to say, the whole school
glared at poor Coggs with as much virtuous indignation as they could
summon up at such short notice; for contempt is very infectious when
communicated from high quarters
said the Doctor, with a slow and withering scorn
All of which simply meant that the Doctor, having once had a small boy
taken seriously ill from the effects of overeating himself, was
naturally anxious to avoid such an inconvenience for the future
continued the Doctor
Mr. Bultitude was too angry and disappointed to speak. He had thought
his path was going to be made smooth, and now all this ridiculous fuss
was being made about a few peppermint lozenges. He wished he had never
mentioned them. It was not the last time he breathed that wish
said the Doctor, suddenly producing a lithe brown cane
Coggs stared idiotically and protested, but after a short and painful
scene, was sent off up to his bedroom, yelping like a kicked puppy
said the Doctor, now almost calm again
A thrill
and murmur, expressive of intense horror and scorn, went round the
benches
Again a murmur of assent
There was a general fall of jaws at this very unexpected conclusion; but
contriving to overcome their dismay, they went outside and down through
the playground into the box-room, Paul amongst the rest, and amidst
universal confusion, everyone opened his box, and, with a consideration
especially laudable in heedless boyhood, thoughtfully and carefully
removed from it all such dainties as might be calculated to shock or
pain their preceptor.

Mr. Bultitude found a key which was labelled
and began to
open a box which bore Dick's initials cut upon the lid; without any
apprehensions, however, for he had given too strict orders to his
daughter, to fear that any luxuries would be concealed there.

But no sooner had he raised the lid than he staggered back with disgust.
It was crammed with cakes, butterscotch, hardbake, pots of jam, and even
a bottle of ginger wine -- enough to compromise a chameleon!

He set himself to pitch them all out as soon as possible with feverish
haste, but Tipping was too quick for him
he cried
said Paul angrily, for he did not
like to be called a humbug
jeered Tipping
growled Paul
said Tipping impatiently
said Tipping easily
This was neatly and quickly done. Biddlecomb tripped Mr. Bultitude up,
and sat firmly on him, while Tipping carefully replaced the good things
in Dick's box, after which he locked it, and courteously returned the
key
he said, with a wicked wink
which he did, Paul following, more dead than alive,
and too shaken even to expostulate
he explained as he
came in; and Dr. Grimstone, who had quite recovered his equanimity,
smiled indulgently, and remarked that he
All the boxes had by this time been brought up, and were ranged upon the
tables, while the Doctor went round, making an almost formal inspection,
like a Custom House officer searching compatriots, and becoming milder
and milder as box after box opened to reveal a fair and innocent
interior.

Paul's turn was coming very near, and his heart seemed to shrivel like a
burst bladder. He fumbled with his key, and tried hard to lose it. It
was terrible to have oneself to apply the match which is to blow one to
the winds. If -- if -- the idea was almost too horrible -- but if he, a
blameless and respectable city merchant, were actually to find himself
served like the miserable Coggs!

At last the Doctor actually stood by him
he said, not
unkindly
Mr. Bultitude, who had the best reasons for not sharing his confidence,
made some inarticulate sounds, and pretended to have a difficulty in
turning the key
said the Doctor with an altered manner
He took the key and opened the lid, when the cakes and wine stood
revealed in all their damning profusion. The Doctor stepped back
dramatically
he gasped
protested the unhappy Paul
rejoined the
Doctor
Paul went upstairs, feeling utterly abandoned and helpless. Though a
word as to his real character might have saved him, he could not have
said it, and, worse still, knew now that he could not
he told himself, and the thought nearly drove him
mad
He opened the door of his bedroom. Coggs was rocking and moaning on his
bed in one corner of the room, but looked up with red furious eyes as
Paul came in
he said savagely
said Paul dolefully
he explained, with some natural embarrassment
cried Coggs, slipping off his bed and staring wildly
said Mr. Bultitude stiffly
shouted Coggs hysterically
said Paul
he cried presently, as Coggs, exasperated by all
his wrongs, was rushing at him with an evidently hostile intent
he pleaded, catching up a chair as a
bulwark
The "dear young friend" was grappling with him and attempting to wrest
the chair away by brute force
he said, his hot
breath hissing through the chair rungs
Paul gasped, feeling his hold on the chair relaxing
They were revolving slowly round the chair, watching each other's eyes
like gladiators, when Paul noticed a sudden blankness and fixity in his
antagonist's expression, and, looking round, saw Dr. Grimstone's awful
form framed in the doorway, and gave himself up for lost
BURTON, _on Dancing_
asked Dr. Grimstone in his most blood-curdling tone,
after a most impressive pause at the dormitory door.

Mr. Bultitude held his tongue, but kept fast hold of his chair, which he
held before him as a defence against either party, while Coggs remained
motionless in the centre of the room, with crooked knees and hands
dangling impotently
protested Paul, lowering his
chair on discovering that there was no immediate danger
said Coggs
said Paul, with the convincing earnestness of truth
said Dr. Grimstone
said Paul
interrupted the Doctor
said Mr. Bultitude faintly, feeling utterly crestfallen -- and he
could say nothing more
continued the Doctor
said Paul
The Doctor stared slightly at this creditable but unnatural view of the
subject. However, as he could not quarrel with the sentiment, he let the
manner of expressing it pass unrebuked for the present, and, after
sentencing Coggs to two days' detention and the copying of innumerable
French verbs, he sent the ill-matched pair down to the schoolroom to
join their respective classes.

Paul went resignedly downstairs and into the room, where he found Mr.
Blinkhorn at the head of one of the long tables, taking a class of about
a dozen boys
said Mr. Blinkhorn mildly
Mr. Blinkhorn was a tall angular man, with a long neck and slightly
drooping head. He had thin wiry brown hair, and a plain face, with
shortsighted kind brown eyes. In character he was mild and reserved,
too conscientious to allow himself the luxury of either favourites or
aversions among the boys, all of whom in his secret soul he probably
disliked about equally, though he neither said nor did anything to show
it.

Paul took a book -- any book, for he did not know or care to know one from
another -- and sat down at the end furthest from the master, inwardly
rebelling at having education thus forced upon him at his advanced
years, but seeing no escape
he resolved desperately
The rest of the class drew away from him with marked coldness and
occasionally saluted him (when Mr. Blinkhorn's attention was called
away) with terms and grimaces which Paul, although he failed thoroughly
to understand them, felt instinctively were not intended as compliments.

Mr. Blinkhorn's notions of discipline were qualified by a sportsmanlike
instinct which forbade him to harass a boy already in trouble, as he
understood young Bultitude had been, and so he forbore from pressing him
to take any share in the class work.

Mr. Bultitude therefore was saved from any necessity of betraying his
total ignorance of his author, and sat gloomily on the hard form,
impatiently watching the minute-hand skulk round the mean dull face of
the clock above the chimney-piece, while around him one boy after
another droned out a listless translation of the work before him,
interrupted by mild corrections and comments from the master.

What a preposterous change from all his ordinary habits! At this very
time, only twenty-four hours since, he was stepping slowly and
majestically towards his accustomed omnibus, which was waiting with
deference for him to overtake it; he was taking his seat, saluted
respectfully by the conductor and cheerily by his fellow-passengers, as
a man of recognised mark and position.

Now that omnibus would halt at the corner of Westbourne Terrace in vain,
and go on its way Bankwards without him. He was many miles away -- in the
very last place where anyone would be likely to look for him, occupying
the post of "whipping-boy" to his miserable son!

Was ever an inoffensive and respectable gentleman placed in a more false
and ridiculous position?

If he had only kept his drawer locked, and hidden the abominable Garuda
Stone away from Dick's prying eyes; if he had let the moralising alone;
if Boaler had not been so long fetching that cab, or if he had not
happened to faint at the critical moment -- what an immense difference any
one of these apparent trifles would have made.

And now what was he to do to get out of this incongruous and distasteful
place? It was all very well to say that he had only to insist upon a
hearing from the Doctor, but what if, as he had very grave reason to
fear, the Doctor should absolutely refuse to listen, should even proceed
to carry out his horrible threat? Must he remain there till the holidays
came to release him? Suppose Dick -- as he certainly would unless he was
quite a fool -- declined to receive him during the holidays? It was
absolutely necessary to return home at once; every additional hour he
passed in imprisonment made it harder to regain his lost self.

Now and then he roused himself from all these gloomy thoughts to observe
his companions. The boys at the upper end, near Mr. Blinkhorn, were
fairly attentive, and he noticed one small smug-faced boy about half-way
up, who, while a class-mate was faltering and blundering over some
question, would cry
in a
restless agony of superior information.

Down by Paul, however, the discipline was relaxed enough, as perhaps
could only be expected on the first day of term. One wild-eyed
long-haired boy had brought out a small china figure with which, and the
assistance of his right hand draped in a pocket handkerchief, and
wielding a penholder, he was busy enacting a drama based on the lines of
Punch and Judy, to the breathless amusement of his neighbours.

Mr. Bultitude might have hoped to escape notice by a policy of judicious
self-effacement, but unhappily his long, blank, uninterested face was
held by his companions to bear an implied reproach; and being delicately
sensitive on this point, they kicked his legs viciously, which made him
extremely glad when dinnertime came, although he felt too faint and
bilious to be tempted by anything but the lightest and daintiest
luncheon.

But at dinner he found, with a shudder, that he was expected to swallow
a thick ragged section of boiled mutton which had been carved and helped
so long before he sat down to it, that the stagnant gravy was chilled
and congealed into patches of greasy white. He managed to swallow it
with many pauses of invincible disgust -- only to find it replaced by a
solid slab of pale brown suet pudding, sparsely bedewed with unctuous
black treacle.

This, though a plentiful, and by no means unwholesome fare for growing
boys, was not what he had been accustomed to, and feeling far too heavy
and unwell after it to venture upon an encounter with the Doctor, he
wandered slow and melancholy round the bare gravelled playground during
the half-hour after dinner devoted to the inevitable
until the
Doctor appeared at the head of the staircase.

It is always sad for the historian to have to record a departure from
principle, and I have to confess with shame on Mr. Bultitude's account
that, feeling the Doctor's eye upon him, and striving to propitiate him,
he humiliated himself so far as to run about with an elaborate affection
of zest, and his exertions were rewarded by hearing himself cordially
encouraged to further efforts.

It cheered and emboldened him
he told
himself
It is a curious and unpleasant thing that, however reassuring and
convincing the arguments may be with which we succeed in bracing
ourselves to meet or disregard unpleasantness, the force of those
arguments seldom or never outlasts the frame of mind in which they are
composed, and when the unpleasantness is at hand, there we are, just as
unreasonably alarmed at it as ever.

Mr. Bultitude's confidence faded away almost as soon as he found himself
in the schoolroom again. He found himself assigned to a class at one end
of the room, where Mr. Tinkler presently introduced a new rule in
Algebra to them, in such a manner as to procure for it a lasting
unpopularity with all those who were not too much engaged in drawing
duels and railway trains upon their slates to attend.

Although Paul did not draw upon his slate, his utter ignorance of
Algebra prevented him from being much edified by the cabalistic signs on
the blackboard, which Mr. Tinkler seemed to chalk up dubiously, and rub
out again as soon as possible, with an air of being ashamed of them. So
he tried to nerve himself for the coming ordeal by furtively watching
and studying the Doctor, who was taking a Xenophon class at the upper
end of the room, and, being in fairly good humour, was combining
instruction with amusement in a manner peculiarly his own.

He stopped the construing occasionally to illustrate some word or
passage by an anecdote; he condescended to enliven the translation here
and there by a familiar and colloquial paraphrase; he magnanimously
refrained from pressing any obviously inconvenient questions; and his
manner generally was marked by a geniality which was additionally
piquant from its extreme uncertainty.

Mr. Bultitude could not help thinking it a rather ghastly form of
gaiety, but he hoped it might last.

Presently, however, some one brought him a blue envelope on a tray. He
read it, and a frown gathered on his face. The boy who was translating
at the time went on again in his former slipshod manner (which had
hitherto provoked only jovial criticism and correction) with complete
self-complacency, but found himself sternly brought to book, and
burdened by a heavy imposition, before he quite realised that his
blunders had ceased to amuse.

Then began a season of sore trial and tribulation for the class. The
Doctor suddenly withdrew the light of his countenance from them, and
sunshine was succeeded by blackest thunderclouds. The wind was no longer
tempered to the more closely shorn of the flock; the weakest vessels
were put on unexpectedly at crucial passages, and, coming hopelessly to
grief, were denounced as impostors and idlers, till half the class was
dissolved in tears.

A few of the better grounded stood the fire, like a remnant of the Old
Guard. With faces pale from alarm, and trembling voices, but perfect
accuracy, they answered all the Doctor's searching inquiries after the
paradigms of Greek verbs that seemed irregular to the verge of
impropriety.

Paul saw it all with renewed misgiving
he thought
The Greek class had managed to repel the enemy, with some loss to
themselves, and the Doctor now left his place for a moment, and came
down towards the bench on which Paul sat trembling.

The storm, however, had passed over for the present, and he only said
with restored calmness
One or two of them said they had done so, and Dr. Grimstone continued
Mr. Bultitude was too overcome by this unexpected attack to contradict
it, though of course he was quite able to do so; but then, if he had, he
must have explained all, and he felt strongly that just then was neither
the time nor the place for particulars.

It would have been wiser perhaps, it would certainly have brought
matters to a crisis, if he could have forced himself to tell
everything -- the whole truth in all its outrageous improbability -- but he
could not.

Let those who feel inclined to blame him for lack of firmness consider
how difficult and delicate a business it must almost of necessity be for
anyone to declare openly, in the teeth of common sense and plain facts,
that there has been a mistake, and, in point of fact, he is not his own
son, but his own father
he thought
And so he followed the rest into a sort of cloak-room, where the tall
hats which the boys wore on Sundays were all kept on shelves in white
bandboxes; and there his hair was brushed, his feet were thrust into
very shiny patent leather shoes, and a pair of kid gloves was given out
to him to put on.

The dancing lesson was to be held in the
from which the
savour of mutton had not altogether departed. When Paul came in he found
the floor cleared and the tables and forms piled up on one side of the
room.

Biddlecomb and Tipping and some of the smaller boys were there already,
their gloves and shiny shoes giving them a feeling of ceremony and
constraint which they tried to carry off by an uncouth parody of
politeness.

Siggers was telling stories of the dances he had been to in town, and
the fine girls whose step had exactly suited his own, and Tipping was
leaning gloomily against the wall listening to something Chawner was
whispering in his ear.

There was a rustle of dresses down the stairs outside, and two thin
little girls, looking excessively proper and prim, came in with an
elderly gentlewoman who was their governess and wore a _pince-nez_ to
impart the necessary suggestion of a superior intellect. They were the
Miss Mutlows, sisters of one of the day-boarders, and attended the
course by special favour as friends of Dulcie's, who followed them in
with a little gleam of shy anticipation in her eyes.

The Miss Mutlows sat stiffly down on a form, one on each side of her
governess, and all three stared solemnly at the boys, who began to blush
vividly under the inspection, to unbutton and rebutton their gloves with
great care, and to shift from leg to leg in an embarrassed manner.

Dulcie soon singled out poor Mr. Bultitude, who, mindful of Tipping's
warning, was doing his very best to avoid her.

She ran straight to him, laid her hand on his arm and looked into his
face pleadingly
she said
Mr. Bultitude had borne a good deal already, and, not being remarkably
sweet-natured, he shook the little hand away, half petulant and half
alarmed
he said nervously.

Dulcie opened her grey eyes wide, and then a flush came into her cheeks,
and she made a little disdainful upward movement of her chin
she said
Paul stamped
he said
Dulcie's eyes flashed
she said in an angry
undertone (all the conversation had, of course, been carried on in
whispers
And she turned proudly away, though anyone who looked might have seen
the fire in her eyes extinguished as she did so. Perhaps Tipping did see
it, for he scowled at them from his corner.

There was another sound outside, as of fiddlestrings being twanged by
the finger, and, as the boys hastily formed up in two lines down the
centre of the room and the Miss Mutlows and Dulcie prepared themselves
for the curtsey of state, there came in a little fat man, with
mutton-chop whiskers and a white face, upon which was written an
unalterable conviction that his manner and deportment were perfection
itself.

The two rows of boys bent themselves stiffly from the back, and Mr.
Burdekin returned the compliment by an inclusive and stately
inclination
And, talking all the time with a metrical fluency, he scraped a little
jig on the violin, while Dummer led off a procession which solemnly
capered round the room in sundry stages of conscious awkwardness. Mr.
Bultitude shuffled along somehow after the rest, with rebellion at his
heart and a deep sense of degradation
he thought.

After some minutes of this, Mr. Burdekin stopped them and directed sets
to be formed for
said Mr. Burdekin
said Paul
Paul had no option. He was paired off with the tall and rather angular
young lady mentioned, while Dulcie looked on pouting, and snubbed
Tipping, who humbly asked for the pleasure of dancing with her, by
declaring that she meant to dance with Tom.

The dance began to a sort of rhythmical accompaniment by Mr. Burdekin,
who intoned
Paul was dragged, unwilling but unresisting, through it all by his
partner, who jerked and pushed him into his place without a word, being
apparently under strict orders from the governess not on any account to
speak to the boys.

After the dance the couples promenaded in a stiff but stately manner
round the room to a dirge-like march scraped upon the violin, the boys
taking the parts of ladies jibbing away from their partners in a highly
unlady-like fashion, and the boy burdened with the companionship of the
younger Miss Mutlow walking along in a very agony of bashfulness
thought Paul, as he led the way with Miss Mary Mutlow
But, if this was bad, worse was to come.

There was another pause, in which Mr. Burdekin said blandly
This was the final straw. It was not to be supposed for one moment that
Mr. Bultitude would lower his dignity in such a preposterous manner.
Besides, he did not know how to dance the hornpipe.

So he said
said Mr. Bultitude sullenly
said Paul
There was unfortunately no possible doubt about the nature of the word
used -- he said it so very distinctly. The governess screamed and called
her charges to her. Dulcie hid her face, and some of the boys tittered.

Mr. Burdekin turned pink
Mr. Bultitude, by no means sorry to be freed from the irksome necessity
of dancing with a heart ill-attuned for enjoyment, got up on the form
and stood looking, sullenly enough, upon the proceedings. The governess
glowered at him now and then as a monster of youthful depravity; the
Miss Mutlows glanced up at him as they tripped past, with curiosity not
unmixed with admiration, but Dulcie steadily avoided looking in his
direction.

Paul was just congratulating himself upon his escape when the door
opened wide, and the Doctor marched slowly and imposingly into the room.

He did this occasionally, partly to superintend matters, and partly as
an encouraging mark of approbation. He looked round the class at first
with benignant toleration, until his glance took in the bench upon which
Mr. Bultitude was set up. Then his eye slowly travelled up to the level
of Paul's head, his expression changing meanwhile to a petrifying glare.

It was not, as Paul instinctively felt, exactly the position in which a
gentleman who wished to stand well with those in authority over him
would prefer to be found. He felt his heart turn to water within him,
and stared limp and helpless at the Doctor.

There was an awful silence (Dr. Grimstone was addicted to awful
silences; and, indeed, if seldom strictly
silence may often be
called "iron"), but at last he inquired
said Mr. Bultitude feebly
Mr. Burdekin was a good-natured, easy-tempered little man, and had
already forgotten the affront to his dignity. He was anxious not to get
the boy into more trouble
he said, putting it as mildly as he could with any
accuracy
said the Doctor
So Mr. Bultitude was driven out of the dancing class in dire
disgrace -- which would not have distressed him particularly, being only
one more drop in his bitter cup -- but that he recognised that now his
hopes of approaching the Doctor with his burden of woe were fallen like
a card castle. They were fiddled and danced away for at least
twenty-four hours -- perhaps for ever!

Bitterly did he brood over this as he slowly and laboriously copied out
sundry vain repetitions of such axioms as
and
He saw the prospect of a tolerably severe flogging growing more and more
distinct, and felt that he could not present himself to his family with
the consciousness of having suffered such an indelible disgrace. His
family! What would become of them in his absence? Would he ever see his
comfortable home in Bayswater again?

Tea-time came, and after it evening preparation, when Mr. Tinkler
presided in a feeble and ineffective manner, perpetually suspecting that
the faint sniggers he heard were indulged in at his own expense, and
calling perfectly innocent victims to account for them.

Paul sat next to Jolland and, in his desperate anxiety to avoid further
unpleasantness, found himself, as he could not for his life have written
a Latin or a German composition, reduced to copy down his neighbour's
exercises. This Jolland (who had looked forward to an arrangement of a
very opposite kind) nevertheless cheerfully allowed him to do, though he
expressed doubts as to the wisdom of a servile imitation -- more, perhaps,
from prudence than conscientiousness.

Jolland, in the intervals of study, was deeply engaged in the production
of a small illustrated work of fiction, which he was pleased to call
_The Adventures of Ben Buterkin at Scool_. It was in a great measure an
autobiography, and the cuts depicting the hero's flagellations -- which
were frequent in the course of the narrative -- were executed with much
vigour and feeling.

He turned out a great number of these works in the course of the term,
as well as faces in pen and ink with moving tongues and rolling eyes,
and these he would present to a few favoured friends with a secretive
and self-depreciatory giggle.

Amidst scenes and companions like these, Paul sat out the evening hours
on his hard seat, which was just at the junction of two forms -- an
exquisitely uncomfortable position, as all who have tried it will
acknowledge -- until the time for going to bed came round again. He
dreaded the hours of darkness, but there was no help for it -- to protest
would have been madness just then, and, once more, he was forced to pass
a night under the roof of Crichton House.

It was even worse than the first, though this was greatly owing to his
own obstinacy.

The boys, if less subdued, were in better temper than the evening
before, and found it troublesome to keep up a feud when the first flush
of resentment had died out. There was a general disposition to forget
his departure from the code of schoolboy honour, and give him an
opportunity of retrieving the past.

But he would not meet them half-way; his repeated repulses by the Doctor
and all the difficulties that beset his return to freedom had made him
very sulky and snappish. He had not patience or adaptability enough to
respond to their advances, and only shrank from their rough good
nature -- which naturally checked the current of good feeling.

Then, when the lights were put out, some one demanded a story. Most of
the bedrooms possessed a professional story-teller, and in one there was
a young romancist who began a stirring history the very first night of
the term, which always ran on until the night before the holidays, and,
if his hearers were apt to yawn at the sixth week of it, he himself
enjoyed and believed in it keenly from beginning to end.

Dick Bultitude had been a valued _raconteur_, it appeared, and his
father found accordingly, to his disgust, that he was expected to amuse
them with a story. When he clearly understood the idea, he rejected it
with so savage a snarl, that he soon found it necessary to retire under
the bedclothes to escape the general indignation that followed.

Finding that he did not actively resent it (the real Dick would have had
the occupant of the nearest bed out by the ears in a minute!), they
profited by his prudence to come to his bedside, where they pillowed his
weary head (with their own pillows) till the slight offered them was
more than avenged.

After that, Mr. Bultitude, with the breath half beaten out of his body,
lay writhing and spluttering on his hard, rough bed till long after
silence had fallen over the adjoining beds, and the sleepy hum of talk
in the other bedrooms had died away.

Then he, too, drifted off into wild and troubled dreams, which, at their
maddest, were scattered into blankness by a sudden and violent shock,
which jerked him, clutching and grasping at nothing, on to the cold,
bare boards, where he rolled, shivering
he thought
But the reality to which he woke was worse still. Tipping and Coker had
been patiently pinching themselves to keep awake until their enemy
should be soundly asleep, in order to enjoy the exquisite pleasure of
letting down the mattress; and, too dazed and frightened even to swear,
Paul gathered up his bedclothes and tried to draw them about him as well
as he might, and seek sleep, which had lost its security.

The Garuda Stone had done one grim and cruel piece of work at least in
its time
BACON.


Once more Mr. Bultitude rose betimes, dressed noiselessly, and stole
down to the cold schoolroom, where one gas-jet was burning palely -- for
the morning was raw and foggy.

This time, however, he was not alone. Mr. Blinkhorn was sitting at his
little table in the corner, correcting exercises, with his chilly hands
cased in worsted mittens. He looked up as Paul came in, and nodded
kindly.

Paul went straight to the fire, and stood staring into it with
lack-lustre eye, too apathetic even to be hopeless, for the work of
enlightening the Doctor seemed more terrible and impossible than ever,
and he began to see that, if the only way of escape lay there, he had
better make up his mind with what philosophy he could to adapt himself
to his altered circumstances, and stay on for the rest of the term.

But the prospect was so doleful and so blank, that he drew a heavy sigh
as he thought of it. Mr. Blinkhorn heard it, and rose awkwardly from the
rickety little writing-table, knocking over a pile of marble-covered
copy-books as he did so.

Then he crossed over to Paul and laid a hand gently on his shoulder
he said
Mr. Bultitude looked up into his face, which had an honest interest and
kindliness in it, and his heart warmed with a faint hope. If this young
man had been shrewd enough to guess at his unhappy secret, might he not
be willing to intercede with the Doctor for him? He looked
good-natured -- he would trust him
he asked, with more cordiality than he had
spoken for a long time
said Mr. Blinkhorn, with mild triumph
said Paul
said Paul
said Paul, overjoyed at being so thoroughly understood
said Mr. Blinkhorn smiling
cried Paul
groaned Mr. Bultitude
thought Paul; but he was too
pleased to be annoyed
he said aloud
said Paul
agreed Mr. Bultitude
said Mr. Blinkhorn, holding up one hand
said Paul
cried Paul, thoroughly astonished
said Mr. Bultitude
said Paul
said Mr. Blinkhorn
cried Paul
said Mr. Blinkhorn
said Mr. Blinkhorn, growing
a little scandalised by the boy's odd warmth of expression
said Paul
said poor Mr.
Blinkhorn, disheartened and bewildered
said Paul
gasped Mr. Blinkhorn
said Paul angrily
said the other with reproach
said Mr. Blinkhorn
urged Paul
said Mr. Blinkhorn firmly
cried Paul rudely (he was so
disgusted at the suggestion
But Mr. Bultitude could not tamely be mocked with the very platitudes
that had brought him all his misery -- he cut the master short in a
violent passion
he cried
said Mr. Blinkhorn
And he went back to his exercises, looking puzzled and pained. The fact
was, he was an ardent believer in the Good Boy of a certain order of
school tales -- the boy who is seized with a sudden conviction of the
intrinsic baseness of boyhood, and does all in his power to get rid of
the harmful taint; the boy who renounces his old comrades and his
natural tastes (which after all seldom have any serious harm in them),
to don a panoply of priggishness which is too often kick-proof.

This kind of boy is rare enough at most English schools, but Mr.
Blinkhorn had been educated at a large Nonconformist College, where
"Revivals" and "Awakenings" were periodical, and undoubtedly did produce
changes of character violent enough, but sadly short in duration.

He was always waiting for some such boy to come to him with his
confession of moral worthlessness and vows of unnatural perfection, and
was too simple and earnest and good himself to realise that such states
of the youthful mind are not unfrequently merely morbid and hysterical,
and too often degenerate into Pharisaism, or worse still, hypocrisy.

So when he noticed Mr. Bultitude's silence and depression, his studied
withdrawal from the others and his evident want of sympathy with them,
he believed he saw the symptoms of a conscience at work, and that he had
found his reformed boy at last.

It was a very unfortunate misunderstanding, for it separated Paul from,
perhaps, the only person who would have had the guilelessness to believe
his incredible story, and the good nature to help him to find escape
from his misfortunes.

Mr. Bultitude on his part was more angry and disgusted than ever. He
began to see that there was a muddle somewhere, and that his identity
was unsuspected still. This young man, for all his fair speaking and
pretended shrewdness, was no conjurer after all. He was left to rely on
his own resources, and he had begun to lose all confidence in their
power to extricate him.

As he brooded over this, the boys straggled down as before, and looked
over their lessons for the day in a dull, lifeless manner. The cold,
unsatisfying breakfast, and the half-hour assigned to
followed
in due course, and after that Paul found himself set down with a class
to await the German master, Herr Stohwasser.

He had again tried to pull himself together and approach the Doctor with
his protest, but no sooner did he find himself near his presence than
his heart began to leap wildly and then retired down towards his boots,
leaving him hoarse, palpitating, and utterly blank of ideas.

It was no use -- and he resigned himself for yet another day of unwelcome
instruction.

The class was in a little room on the basement floor, with a linen-press
taking up one side, some bare white deal tables and forms, and, on the
walls, a few coloured German prints. They sat there talking and
laughing, taking no notice of Mr. Bultitude, until the German master
made his appearance.

He was by no means a formidable person, though stout and tall. He wore
big round owlish spectacles, and his pale broad face and long nose,
combined with a wild crop of light hair and a fierce beard, gave him the
incongruous appearance of a sheep looking out of a gun-port.

He took his place with an air of tremendous determination to enforce a
hard morning's work on the book they were reading -- a play of Schiller's,
of the plot of which, it is needless to say, no one of his pupils had or
cared to have the vaguest notion, having long since condemned the whole
subject, with insular prejudice, as
said Herr Stohwasser
But Biddlecomb was in a conversational mood, and willing to postpone the
task of translation, so he merely inquired, with an air of extreme
interest, how Herr Stohwasser's German Grammar was getting on.

This was a subject on which (as he perhaps knew) the German never could
resist enlarging, for in common with most German masters, he was giving
birth to a new Grammar, which, from the daring originality of its plan,
and its extreme simplicity, was destined to supersede all other similar
works
he said
persisted Biddlecomb insidiously, having no idea
of continuing with his Tell just yet
exclaimed Herr Stohwasser
Jolland called out
from the lower end of the table
the class
entreated, with flattering eagerness.

Herr Stohwasser began to laugh with slow, deep satisfaction; the
satisfaction of a successful achievement
he
said
said Biddlecomb
As a matter of fact this joke, in all its lights, was tolerably familiar
to most of them by this time, but, either on its individual merits, or
perhaps because it compared favourably with the sterner alternative of
translating, it was periodically in request, and always met with
evergreen appreciation.

Herr Stohwasser beamed with the pride of authorship. Like the celebrated
Scotchman, he
and the outcome of so much
labour was dear to him
And he proceeded to set out in great length all the circumstances which
had given materials for his
with the successive processes by
which he had shaped and perfected it, passing on to a recital of the
masterpiece itself, and ending up by a philosophical analysis of the
same, which must have placed his pupils in full possession of the point,
for they laughed consumedly
he said
inquired Coggs
Herr Stohwasser confessed
suggested Tipping
All this, of course, had no interest for Mr. Bultitude, but it left him
free to pursue his own thoughts in peace, and indeed this lesson would
never have been recorded here, but for two circumstances which will
presently appear, both of which had no small effect on his fortunes.

He sat nearest the window, and looked out on the pinched and drooping
laurels in the enclosure, which were damp with frost melting in the
sunshine. Over the wall he could see the tops of passing vehicles, the
country carrier's cart, the railway parcels van, the fly from the
station. He envied even the drivers; their lot was happier than his!

His thoughts were busy with Dick. Oddly enough, it had scarcely occurred
to him before to speculate on what he might be doing in his absence; he
had thought chiefly about himself. But now he gave his attention to the
subject, what new horrors it opened up! What might not become of his
well-conducted household under the rash rule of a foolish schoolboy! The
office, too -- who could say what mischief Dick might not be doing there,
under the cover of his own respectable form?

Then it might seem good to him any day to smash the Garuda Stone, and
after that there would be no hope of matters being ever set right again!

And yet, miserable coward and fool that he was, with everything
depending upon his losing no time to escape, he could not screw up his
courage, and say the words that were to set him free.

All at once -- and this is one of the circumstances that make the German
lesson an important stage in this story -- an idea suggested itself to him
quite dazzling by its daring and brilliancy.

Some may wonder, when they hear what it was, why he never thought of it
before, and it is somewhat surprising, but by no means without
precedent. Artemus Ward has told us somewhere of a ferocious bandit who
was confined for sixteen years in solitary captivity, before the notion
of escape ever occurred to him. When it did, he opened the window and
got out.

Perhaps a similar passiveness on Mr. Bultitude's part was due to a very
natural and proper desire to do everything without scandal, and in a
legitimate manner; to march out, as it were, with the honours of war.
Perhaps it was simple dullness. The fact remains that it was not till
then that he saw a way of recovering his lost position, without the
disagreeable necessity of disclosing his position to anyone at Crichton
House.

He had still -- thank Heaven -- the five shillings he had given Dick. He had
not thrown them away with the other articles in his mad passion. Five
shillings was not much, but it was more than enough to pay for a
third-class fare to town. He had only to watch his opportunity, slip
away to the station, and be at home again, defying the usurper, before
anyone at Crichton House had discovered his absence.

He might go that very day, and the delight of this thought -- the complete
reaction from blank despair to hope -- was so intense that he could not
help rubbing his hands stealthily under the table, and chuckling with
glee at his own readiness of resource.

When we are most elated, however, there is always a counteracting agent
at hand to bring us down again to our proper level, or below it. The
Roman general in the triumph never really needed the slave in the
chariot to dash his spirits -- he had his friends there already; the
guests at an Egyptian dinner must have brought their own skeletons.

There was a small flaxen-haired little boy sitting next to Mr.
Bultitude, seemingly a quite inoffensive being, who at this stage served
to sober him by furnishing another complication
he piped shrilly in Paul's ear
The unreasonable absurdity of such a question annoyed him excessively
he said reprovingly
grumbled little Porter, the boy in question
said Paul angrily
persisted Porter doggedly
At the other end of the table Biddlecomb had again dexterously allured
Herr Stohwasser into the meshes of conversation; this time upon the
question (_a propos de bottes_) of street performances
he was saying
This last relapse into duty was caused by the
sudden entrance of the Doctor, who stood at the door looking on for some
time with a general air of being intimately acquainted with Schiller as
an author, before suggesting graciously that it was time to dismiss the
class.

Wednesday was a half-holiday at Crichton House, and so, soon after
dinner, Paul found himself marshalled with the rest in a procession
bound for the football field. They marched two and two, Chawner and
three of the other elder boys leading with the ball and four goal-posts
ornamented with coloured calico flags, and Mr. Blinkhorn and Mr. Tinkler
bringing up the rear.

Mr. Bultitude was paired with Tom Grimstone, who, after eyeing him
askance for some time, could control his curiosity no longer
he began
said Paul stiffly
said Tom
said Paul
said Tom expressively
said Paul
continued Tom
said Paul
said Paul
grumbled Tom
said Paul
said Paul
said Paul, with great disgust, for he had thought Mrs. Grimstone a
woman of better taste
suggested Tom
growled Mr. Bultitude
said Tom
said Tom, astonished at this
apparent change of front
said Paul
thought Paul
Then he said aloud to Tom
said Tom
Paul saw his course quite clearly now, and was overcome with relief and
gratitude. He wrung the astonished Tom's hand warmly
he
said, briskly and cheerfully
But although Tom used no arguments to dissuade him, Mr. Bultitude
remembered his position in time, and prudently refrained from such
ill-judged generosity. Sixpences were of vital importance now, when he
expected to be starting so soon on his perilous journey.

And so they reached the field where the game was to be played, and where
Paul was resolved to have one desperate throw for liberty and home. He
was more excited than anxious as he thought of it, and it certainly did
seem as if all the chances were in his favour, and that fortune must
have forsaken him indeed, if anything were allowed to prevent his
escape
_Merchant of Venice
The football field was a large one, bounded on two sides by tall wooden
palings, and on the other two by a hedge and a new shingled road,
separated from the field by a post and rails.

Two of the younger boys, proud of their office, raced down to the
further end to set up the goal-posts. The rest lounged idly about
without attempting to begin operations, except the new boy Kiffin, who
was seen walking apart from the rest, diligently studying the
as laid down in a small _Boy's Own Pocket Book
and Manual of Outdoor Sports_, with which he had been careful to provide
himself.

At last Tipping suggested that they had better begin, and proposed that
Mr. Blinkhorn and himself should toss up for the choice of sides, and
this being done, Mr. Bultitude presently, to his great dismay, heard his
name mentioned
said Tipping
It was not worth while, however, to protest, since he would so soon be
rid of the whole crew for ever, and so Paul followed Tipping and his
train with dutiful submission, and the game began.

It was not a spirited performance. Mr. Tinkler, who was not an athlete,
retired at once to the post and rails, on which he settled himself to
enjoy a railway novel with a highly stimulating cover. Mr. Blinkhorn,
who had more conscientious views of his office, charged about
vigorously, performing all kinds of wonders with the ball, though
evidently more from a sense of duty than with any idea of enjoyment.

Tipping occasionally took the trouble to oppose him, but as a concession
merely, and with a parade of being under no necessity to do so; and
these two, with a very small following of enthusiasts on either side,
waged a private and confidential kind of warfare in different parts of
the field, while the others made no pretence of playing for the present,
but strolled about in knots, exchanging and bartering the treasures
valuable in the sight of schoolboys, and gossiping generally.

As for Paul, he did not clearly understand what "playing up" might mean.
He had not indulged in football since he was a genuine boy, and then
only in a rudimentary and primitive form, and without any particular
fondness for the exercise. But being now, in spirit at all events, a
precise elderly person, with a decided notion of taking care of himself,
he was resolved that not even Tipping should compel him to trust his
person within range of that dirty brown globe, which whistled past his
ear or seemed spinning towards his stomach with such a hideous
suggestion of a cannon-ball about it.

All the ghastly instances, too, of accidents to life and limb in the
football field came unpleasantly into his memory, and he saw the
inadvisability of mingling with the crowd and allowing himself to be
kicked violently on the shins.

So he trotted industriously about at a safe distance in order to allay
suspicion, while waiting for a good opportunity to put his scheme of
escape into execution.

At last he could wait no longer, for the fearful thought occurred to
him, that if he remained there much longer, the Doctor -- who, as he knew
from Dick, always came to superintend, if not to share the sports of his
pupils -- might make his appearance, and then his chance would be lost for
the present, for he knew too well that he should never find courage to
ask permission from _him_.

With a beating heart he went up to Mr. Tinkler, who was still on the
fence with his novel, and asked as humbly as he could bring himself to
do
said Mr. Tinkler, without
looking up.

Paul had not prepared himself for details, and the sudden question
rather threw him off his guard
he said at length
said Mr. Tinkler
said Paul
Mr. Tinkler stared, as well he might, but making nothing of it, and
being chiefly anxious not to be interrupted any longer, only said
So Mr. Bultitude was free; the path lay open to him now. He knew he
would have little difficulty in finding his way to the station, and,
once there, he would have the whole afternoon in which to wait for a
train to town
he thought, as he ran blithely off,
almost like the boy he seemed
But the fates are ladies, and -- not of course that it
follows -- occasionally spiteful. It is very rash indeed to be ungallant
enough to defy them -- they have such an unpleasant habit of accepting the
challenge.

Mr. Bultitude had hardly got clear of the groups scattered about the
field, when he met a small flaxen-haired boy, who was just coming down
to join the game. It was Porter, his neighbour of the German lesson
he said in his squeaky voice
said Paul
said little Porter, laying hold of him by his
jacket
This outrageous demand took Mr. Bultitude's breath away. He had no idea
what rabbit was referred to, or why he should be required to produce
such an animal at a moment's notice. This was the second time an
inconvenient small boy had interfered between him and liberty. He would
not be baffled twice. He tried to shake off his persecutor
This denial enraged Porter
he called out
At this several of the loungers came up, glad of a distraction
some of them asked
whined Porter
Mr. Bultitude was not usually ready of resource, but now he had what
seemed a happy thought
he cried, pretending to recollect it
cried Porter, half relieved
said Paul sharply (he was growing positively brilliant
put in Siggers
said Mr. Bultitude
The crowd increased until there was quite a ring formed round Mr.
Bultitude and the indignant claimant, and presently Tipping came
bustling up
he said
explained little
Porter
said one or two new-comers,
edging their way to the front.

Mr. Bultitude was of course exceedingly annoyed by this unlooked-for
interruption, and still more by such utterly preposterous claims on him
for animals; however, it was easy to explain that he had no such things
in his possession, and after that of course no more could be said. He
was beginning to disclaim all liability, when Siggers stopped him
he said
He fixed upon the goal-posts as being somehow more formal, and, as his
proposal was well received, two of them grasped Mr. Bultitude by the
collar and dragged him along in procession to the appointed spot between
the two flags, while Siggers followed in what he conceived to be a
highly judicial manner, and evidently enjoying himself prodigiously.

Paul, though highly indignant, allowed himself to be led along without
resistance. It was safest to humour them, for after all it would not
last long, and when they were tired of baiting him he could watch his
time and slip quietly away.

When they reached the goal-posts Siggers arranged them in a circle,
placing himself, the hapless Paul, and his accusers in the centre
he said
he added with judicial impartiality
Siggers' father was an Old Bailey barrister in good and rather sharp
practice, so that it was clearly the son's mission to preside on this
occasion. But unfortunately his hour of office was doomed to be a brief
one, for Mr. Blinkhorn, becoming aware that the game was being still
more scantily supported, and noticing the crowd at the goal, came up to
know the reason of it at a long camel-like trot, his hat on the back of
his head, his mild face flushed with exertion, and his pebble glasses
gleaming in the winter sunshine
he asked with pathos
said Siggers, alarmed at the threatened loss of his
dignity
the whole ring shouted together
On the whole, perhaps, Mr. Bultitude was glad of this interference. At
least justice would be done now, although this usher had blundered so
unpardonably that morning
said Mr. Blinkhorn
grumbled Tipping and
Siggers together
said Mr. Blinkhorn
said Paul hurriedly
asked the master
said Paul
said Mr. Blinkhorn, with a certain coldness in his tone
said Porter
To Paul's horror two or three other boys came forward with much the same
tale. He remembered now that during the holidays he had discovered that
Dick was maintaining a sort of amateur menagerie in his bedroom, and
that he had ordered the whole of the livestock to be got rid of or
summarily destroyed.

Now it seemed that the wretched Dick had already disposed of it to these
clamorous boys, and, what was worse, had stipulated with considerable
forethought for payment in advance. For the first time he repented his
paternal harshness. Like the netted lion, a paltry white mouse or two
would have set him free; but, less happy than the beast in the fable, he
had not one!

He tried to stammer out excuses
he said
growled Tipping. (Boys hate long words
as much as even a Saturday Reviewer
said Mr. Blinkhorn
said Mr. Bultitude, wriggling with embarrassment
It might be thought that he had an excellent opportunity here of avowing
himself, but there was the risk that Mr. Blinkhorn would disbelieve him,
and, with the boys, he felt that the truth would do anything but
increase his popularity. But dissembling fails sometimes outside the
copy-books, and Mr. Bultitude's rather blundering attempt at it only
landed him in worse difficulties.

There was a yell of rage and disappointment from the defrauded ones, who
had cherished a lingering hope that young Bultitude had those rabbits
somewhere, but (like Mr. Barkis and his wooden lemon) found himself
unable to part with them when the time came to fulfil his contract. And
as contempt is a frame of mind highly stimulating to one's self-esteem,
even those who had no personal interest in the matter joined in the
execrations with hearty goodwill and sympathy
they cried wrathfully
said Paul
But this only made them angrier, and they resented his defence with
hoots, and groans, and hisses.

Mr. Blinkhorn meanwhile was pondering the affair conscientiously. At
last he said
said Chawner
said Mr. Blinkhorn
said Mr. Bultitude. But he dreaded
what was coming next
said Paul
said Mr. Blinkhorn
One boy after another brought forward his claim. One had entrusted Dick,
it appeared, with a shilling, for which he was to receive a mouse with a
and two others had invested ninepence each in white mice.
With Porter's half-crown, the total came to precisely five
shillings -- all Paul had in the world, the one rope by which he could
ever hope to haul himself up to his lost pinnacle!

Mr. Blinkhorn, naturally enough, saw no reason why the money, being
clearly due, should not be paid at once
he said
Paul clasped his arm convulsively
he cried hoarsely
said Mr. Blinkhorn
cried Paul
Then in his despair he did the most fatal thing possible. He tried to
save himself by flight, and with a violent plunge broke through the
circle and made for the road which led towards the station.

Instantly the whole school, only too glad of the excitement, was at his
heels. The unhappy Colonial Produce merchant ran as he had not run for a
quarter of a century, faster even than he had on his first experience of
Coggs' and Coker's society on that memorable Monday night. But in spite
of his efforts the chase was a short one. Chawner and Tipping very soon
had him by the collar, and brought him back, struggling and kicking out
viciously, to Mr. Blinkhorn, whose good opinion he had now lost for
ever
said Chawner
said Mr. Blinkhorn.

It was Dick's purse, of course; and in spite of Paul's frantic efforts
to retain it, it was taken from him, its contents equitably divided
amongst the claimants, and the purse itself returned to him -- empty
said Mr. Blinkhorn
Mr. Bultitude lost what little temper he had yet to lose; he flung the
useless purse from him and broke away from them all in a condition
little removed from insanity.

Leave the field! What a mockery the permission was now. How was he to
get home, a distance of more than fifty miles, without a penny in his
pocket? Ten minutes before, and freedom was within his grasp, and now it
had eluded him and was as hopelessly out of reach as ever!

No one pitied him; no one understood the real extent of his loss. Mr.
Blinkhorn and the few enthusiasts went back to their unobtrusive game,
while the rest of the school discussed the affair in groups, the popular
indignation against young Bultitude's hitherto unsuspected meanness
growing more marked every instant.

It might have even taken some decided and objectionable form before
long, but when it was at its height there was a sudden cry of alarm
and indeed in the far distance the
Doctor's portly and imposing figure could be seen just turning the
corner into the field.

Mr. Bultitude felt almost cheered. This coming to join his pupils'
sports showed a good heart; the Doctor would almost certainly be in a
good humour, and he cheated himself into believing that, at some
interval in the game, he might perhaps find courage to draw near and
seek to interest him in his incredible woes.

It was quite extraordinary to see how the game, which had hitherto
decidedly languished and hung fire, now quickened into briskness and
became positively spirited. Everyone developed a hearty interest in it,
and it would almost seem as if the boys, with more delicacy than they
are generally credited with, were unwilling to let their master guess
how little his indulgence was really appreciated. Even Mr. Tinkler,
whose novel had kept him spell-bound on his rail all through the recent
excitement, now slipped it hurriedly into his pocket and rushed
energetically into the fray, shouting encouragement rather
indiscriminately to either side, till he had an opportunity of finding
out privately to which leader he had been assigned.

Dr. Grimstone came down the field at a majestic slow trot, calling out
to the players as he came on
And, as the ball had rolled in his direction, he punted it up in an
exceedingly dignified manner, the whole school keeping respectfully
apart, until he had brought it to a reasonable distance from the goal,
when he kicked it through with great solemnity, amidst faint, and it is
to be feared somewhat sycophantic applause, and turned away with the air
of a man surfeited of success
he asked presently, whereupon Tipping
explained that his side had been the favoured one
he said
and he kicked off the ball for the next game.

It was noticeable that the party thus distinguished did not seem
precisely overwhelmed with pleasure at the compliment, which, as they
knew from experience, implied considerable exertion on their part, and
even disgrace if they were unsuccessful.

The other side too looked unhappy, feeling themselves in a position of
extreme delicacy and embarrassment. For if they played their best, they
ran some risk of offending the Doctor, or, what was worse, drawing him
over into their ranks; while if, on the other hand, they allowed
themselves to be too easily worsted, they might be suspected of
sulkiness and temper -- offences which he was very ready to discover and
resent.

Dr. Grimstone for his part enjoyed the exercise, and had no idea that he
was not a thoroughly welcome and valued playmate. But though it was
pleasant to outsiders to see a schoolmaster permitting himself to share
in the recreation of his pupils, it must be owned that to the latter the
advantages of the arrangement seemed something more than dubious.

Mr. Bultitude, being on the side adopted by the Doctor, found too soon
that he was expected to bestir himself. More than ever anxious now to
conciliate, he did his very best to conquer his natural repugnance and
appear more interested than alarmed as the ball came in his way; but
although (in boating slang) he "sugared" with some adroitness, he was
promptly found out, for his son had been a dashing and plucky player.

It was bitter for him to run meekly about while scathing sarcasms and
comments on his want of courage were being hurled at his head. It
shattered the scanty remnants of his self-respect, but he dared not
protest or say a single word to open the Doctor's eyes to the injustice
he was doing him.

He was unpleasantly reminded, too, of the disfavour he had acquired
amongst his companions, by some one or other of them running up to him
every moment when the Doctor's attention was called elsewhere, and
startling his nerves by a sly jog or pinch, or an abusive epithet hissed
viciously into his ears -- Chawner being especially industrious in this
respect.

And in this unsatisfactory way the afternoon dragged along until the
dusk gathered and the lamps were lighted, and it became too dark to see
goal-posts or ball.

By the time play was stopped and the school reformed for the march home,
Mr. Bultitude felt that he was glad even to get back to labour as a
relief from such a form of enjoyment. It was perhaps the most miserable
afternoon he had ever spent in his whole easy-going life. In the course
of it he had passed from brightest hope to utter despair; and now
nothing remained to him but to convince the Doctor, which he felt quite
unequal to do, or to make his escape without money -- which would
inevitably end in a recapture.

May no one who reads this ever be placed upon the horns of such a
dilemma
_Merchant of Venice._


If it were not that it was so absolutely essential to the interest of
this story, I think I should almost prefer to draw a veil over the
sufferings of Mr. Bultitude during the rest of that unhappy week at
Crichton House; but it would only be false delicacy to do so.

Things went worse and worse with him. The real Dick in his most
objectionable moods could never have contrived to render himself one
quarter so disliked and suspected as his substitute was by the whole
school -- masters and boys.

It was in a great measure his own fault, too; for to an ordinary boy the
life there would not have had any intolerable hardships, if it held out
no exceptional attractions. But he would not accommodate himself to
circumstances, and try, during his enforced stay, to get as much
instruction and enjoyment as possible out of his new life.

Perhaps, in his position, it would be too much to expect such a thing
and, at all events, it never even occurred to him to attempt it. He
consumed himself instead with inward raging and chafing at his hard lot,
and his utter powerlessness to break the spell which bound him.

Sometimes, indeed, he would resolve to bear it no longer, and would
start up impulsively to impart his misfortunes to some one in minor
authority -- not the Doctor, he had given that up in resigned despair long
since. But as surely as ever he found himself coming to the point, the
words would stick fast in his throat, and he was only too thankful to
get away, with his tale untold, on any frivolous pretext that first
suggested itself.

This, of course, brought him into suspicion, for such conduct had the
appearance of a systematic course of practical joking, and even the most
impartial teachers will sometimes form an unfavourable opinion of a
particular boy on rather slender grounds, and then find fresh
confirmation of it in his most insignificant actions.

As for the school generally, his scowls and his sullenness, his
deficiency in the daring and impudence that had warmed their hearts
towards Dick, and, above all, his strange knack of getting them into
trouble -- for he seldom received what he considered an indignity without
making a formal complaint -- all this brought him as much hearty dislike
and contempt as, perhaps, the most unsympathetic boy ever earned since
boarding-schools were first invented.

The only boy who still seemed to retain a secret tenderness for him, as
the Dick he had once looked up to and admired, was Jolland, who
persisted in believing, and in stating his belief, that this apparent
change of demeanour was a perverted kind of joke on Bultitude's part,
which he would condescend to explain some day when it had gone far
enough, and he wearied and annoyed Paul beyond endurance by perpetually
urging him to abandon his ill-judged experiment and discover the point
of the jest.

But for Jolland's help, which he persevered in giving in spite of the
opposition and unpopularity it brought upon himself, Mr. Bultitude would
have found it impossible to make any pretence of performing the tasks
required of him.

He found himself expected, as a matter of course, to have a certain
familiarity with Greek paradigms and German conversation scraps,
propositions in Euclid and Latin gerunds, of all of which, having had a
strict commercial education in his young days, he had not so much as
heard before his metamorphosis. But by carefully copying Jolland's
exercises, and introducing enough mistakes of his own to supply the
necessary local colour, he was able to escape to a great degree the
discovery of his blank ignorance on all these subjects -- an ignorance
which would certainly have been put down as mere idleness and obstinacy.

But it will be readily believed that he lived in constant fear of such
discovery, and as it was, his dependence on a little scamp like his
son's friend was a sore humiliation to one who had naturally supposed
hitherto that any knowledge he had not happened to acquire could only be
meretricious and useless.

He led a nightmare sort of existence for some days, until something
happened which roused him from his state of passive misery into one more
attempt at protest.

It was Saturday morning, and he had come down to breakfast, after being
knocked about as usual in the dormitory over night, with a dull wonder
how long this horrible state of things could possibly be going to last,
when he saw on his plate a letter with the Paddington post-mark,
addressed in a familiar hand -- his daughter Barbara's.

For an instant his hopes rose high. Surely the impostor had been found
out at last, and the envelope would contain an urgent invitation to him
to come back and resume his rights -- an invitation which he might show to
the Doctor as his best apology.

But when he looked at the address, which was
he felt a misgiving. It was unlikely that Barbara would address him thus
if she knew the truth; he hesitated before tearing it open.

Then he tried to persuade himself that of course she would have the
sense to keep up appearances for his own sake on the outside of the
letter, and he compelled himself to open the envelope with fingers that
trembled nervously.

The very first sentences scattered his faint expectations to the winds.
He read on with staring eyes, till the room seemed to rock with him like
a packet-boat and the sprawling school-girl handwriting, crossed and
recrossed on the thin paper, changed to letters of scorching flame. But
perhaps it will be better to give the letter in full, so that the reader
may judge for himself whether it was calculated or not to soothe and
encourage the exiled one.

Here it is
BARBARA BULTITUDE
It would be nothing short of an insult to the reader's comprehension, if
I were to enter into an elaborate explanation of the effect this letter
had upon Mr. Bultitude. He took it in by degrees, trying to steady his
nerves at each additional item of poor Barbara's well-meant intelligence
by a sip at his tin-flavoured coffee. But when he came to the
postscript, in spite of its purport being mercifully broken to him
gradually by the extreme difficulty of making it out from two
undercurrents of manuscript, he choked convulsively and spilt his
coffee.

Dr. Grimstone visited this breach of etiquette with stern promptness
There was a faint chuckle along the tables, and several drank coffee
with studied elegance and self-repression either as a valuable example
to Dick, or as a personal advertisement. But Paul was in no mood for
reproof and instruction. He stood up in his excitement, flourishing his
letter wildly
he said
There was a general sensation at this, for his manner was peremptory and
almost dictatorial. Some thought he would get a licking on the strength
of it, and most hoped so. But the Doctor dismissed them to the
playground, keeping Paul back to be dealt with in privacy.

Mrs. Grimstone played nervously with her dry toast at the end of the
table, for she could not endure to see the boys in trouble and dreaded a
scene, while Dulcie looked on with wide bright eyes
said the Doctor, looking up from his marmalade
stammered Paul
said Paul
said the Doctor -- and Dulcie's eyes were larger still and
her face paled
said Mr. Bultitude. It would have been absurd to say
and he had not presence of mind just then to transpose
the relationships with neatness and success
declared Paul
said the Doctor
Show him the letter -- lay bare all those follies of Dick's, the burden
of which he might have to bear himself very shortly -- never! Besides,
what would be the use of it? It would be no argument in favour of
sending him home -- rather the reverse -- so Paul was obliged to say
said the Doctor, with some reason
Once more would Paul have given worlds for the firmness and presence of
mind to state his case clearly and effectively; and he could hardly have
had a better opportunity, for schoolmasters cannot always be playing the
tyrant, and the Doctor was, in spite of his attempts to be stern,
secretly more amused than angry at what seemed a peculiarly precocious
piece of effrontery.

But Paul felt the dismal absurdity of his position. Nothing he had said,
nothing he could say, short of the truth, would avail him, and the truth
was precisely what he felt most unable to tell. He hung his head
resignedly, and held his tongue in confusion
said the Doctor at last
muttered Paul, when out of hearing, as he went upstairs
and through the empty schoolroom into the playground
All through that morning his thoughts ran in the same doleful groove,
until the time for work came to an end, and he found himself in the
playground, and free to indulge his melancholy for a few minutes in
solitude; for the others were still loitering about in the schoolroom,
and a glass outhouse originally intended for a conservatory, but now
devoted to boots and slates, and the books liberally besmeared with
gilt, and telling of the exploits of boy-heroes so beloved of boys.

Mr. Bultitude, only too delighted to get away from them for a little
while, was leaning against the parallel bars in dull despondency, when
he heard a rustling in the laurel hedge which cut off the house garden
from the gravelled playground, and looking up, saw Dulcie slip through
the shrubs and come towards him with an air of determination in her
proud little face.

She looked prettier and daintier than ever in her grey hat and warm fur
tippet; but of course Paul was not of the age or in the mood to be much
affected by such things -- he turned his head pettishly away
she said
Paul made the sound generally written
said Paul
said Dulcie impulsively
said Paul sententiously
cried Dulcie
said Paul
said Dulcie
imperiously; and Paul really felt almost afraid of her
he said, retreating a step or two
protested Dulcie, only too willing to be
convinced of her boy-lover's constancy
Paul thought for a moment. After all, why shouldn't he? It was much
pleasanter to tell his sorrows to her little ear and hear her childish
wonder and pity than face her terrible father -- he had tried that. And
then she might tell her mother; and so his story might reach the
Doctor's ears after all, without further effort on his part
he said at last
So he sat down on the bench by the wall, and Dulcie, quite happy again
now at this proof of good faith, nestled up against him confidingly,
waiting for his first words with parted lips and eager sparkling eyes
began Paul
said a jarring, sneering voice close by
And he
looked up and saw Tipping standing over him with a plainly hostile
intent
said Dulcie
retorted Tipping
said Dulcie
It was a most unpleasant situation for Mr. Bultitude, but he did not
like to offend Tipping
he said
nervously
said
the amiable Tipping, nettled by Dulcie's little air of haughty disdain
said Mr. Bultitude
wailed poor Dulcie piteously, clinging to
the reluctant Paul
said Mr. Bultitude with great decision
and he rose from the bench and was about to walk
away, when Tipping suddenly pulled off his coat and began to make sundry
demonstrations of a martial nature, such as dancing aggressively towards
his rival and clenching his fists.

By this time most of the other boys had come down into the playground,
and were looking on with great interest. There was an element of romance
in this promised combat which gave it additional attractions. It was
like one of the struggles between knightly champions in the Waverley
novels. Several of them would have fought till they couldn't see out of
their eyes if it would have given them the least chance of obtaining
favour in Dulcie's sight, and they all envied Dick, who was the only boy
that was not unmercifully snubbed by their capricious little princess.

Paul alone was blind to the splendour of his privileges. He examined
Tipping carefully, as the latter was still assuming a hostile attitude
and chanting a sort of war-cry supposed to be an infallible incentive to
strife
he sang very offensively
said Paul at last
jeered Tipping
said Paul, only too happy to oblige. But he found himself
prevented by a ring of excited backers
cried some, forgetting recent ill-feeling in the
necessity for partisanship
pleaded Dulcie, who had got upon a
bench and was looking down into the ring -- not, if the truth must be
told, without a certain pleasurable excitement in the feeling that it
was all about her.

And now Mr. Bultitude discovered that he was seriously expected to fight
this great hulking boy, and that the sole reason for any disagreement
was an utterly unfounded jealousy respecting this little girl Dulcie. He
had not a grain of chivalry in his disposition -- chivalry being an
eminently unpractical virtue -- and naturally he saw no advantage in
letting himself be mauled for the sake of a child younger than his own
daughter.

Dulcie's appeal enraged Tipping, who took it as addressed solely to
himself
he said between his
teeth
Paul thought he saw his way clear to disabuse Tipping of his mistaken
idea
he asked politely
growled Tipping
persisted Mr. Bultitude
he said
with a sickly attempt at jocularity which delighted none
said Tipping gruffly
protested Paul earnestly
He was just looking round with a self-satisfied and relieved air, when
he began to be aware that his act of frank unselfishness was not as much
appreciated as it deserved. Tipping, indeed, looked baffled and
irresolute for one moment, but a low murmur of disgust arose from the
bystanders, and even Jolland declared that it was
As for Dulcie, she had been looking on incredulously at her champion's
unaccountable tardiness in coming to the point. But this public
repudiation was too much for her. She gave a little low wail as she
heard the shameless words of recantation, and then, without a word,
jumped lightly down from her bench and ran away to hide herself
somewhere and cry.

Even Paul, though he knew that he had done nothing but what was strictly
right, and had acted purely in self-protection, felt unaccountably
ashamed of himself as he saw this effect of his speech. But it was too
late now
_French Revolution
_Twelfth Night._


Mr. Bultitude had meant to achieve a double stroke of diplomacy -- to
undeceive Dulcie and conciliate the lovesick Tipping. But whatever his
success may have been in the former respect, the latter object failed
conspicuously
said Tipping,
exasperated by the sight of Dulcie's emotion
said Paul
with great dignity
But at this Tipping, whose blood was evidently at boiling point, came
prancing down on him in a Zulu-like fashion, swinging his long arms like
a windmill, and finding that his enemy made no attempt at receiving him,
but only moved away apprehensively, he seized him by the collar as a
prelude to dealing him a series of kicks behind.

Although Mr. Bultitude, as we have seen, was opposed to fighting as a
system he could not submit to this sort of thing without at least some
attempt to defend himself; and judging it of the highest importance to
disable his adversary in the most effectual manner before the latter had
time to carry out his offensive designs, he turned sharply round and hit
him a very severe blow in the lower part of his waistcoat.

The result fulfilled his highest expectations. Tipping collapsed like a
pocket-rule, and staggered away speechless, and purple with pain, while
Paul stood calm and triumphant. He had shown these fellows that he
wasn't going to stand any nonsense. They would leave him alone after
this, perhaps.

But once more there were cries and murmurs of
It appeared that, somehow, he had managed to offend their prejudices
even in this
he thought
But after a season of protracted writhing by the parallel bars, Tipping
came out, still gasping and deadly pale, leaning on Biddlecomb's
shoulder, and was met with universal sympathy and condolence
he said with considerable effort
There was a general shout
Paul heard it with much uneasiness. What new devilry were they about to
practise upon him? He was not left long in doubt
suggested Biddlecomb, as if he were proposing a testimonial
And the idea was very favourably
entertained.

Paul had heard of
and dimly suspected that it
was not an experience he was likely to enjoy, particularly when he saw
everyone busying himself with tying the end of his pocket-handkerchief
into a hard knot. He tried in vain to excuse himself, declaring again
and again that he had never meant to injure the boy. He had only
defended himself, and was under the impression that he was at perfect
liberty to hit him wherever he could, and so on. But they were in no
mood for excuses.

With a stern magisterial formality worthy of a Vehm-Gericht, they formed
in two long lines down the centre of the playground; and while Paul was
still staring in wonder at what this strange manoeuvre might mean,
somebody pounced upon him and carried him up to one end of the ranks,
where Tipping had by this time sufficiently recovered to be able to
as he chose to call it, with a fairly effective kick.

After that he had a confused sense of flying madly along the double line
of avengers under a hail of blows which caught him on every part of his
head, shoulders, and back till he reached the end, where he was
dexterously turned and sent spinning up to Tipping again, who in his
turn headed him back on his arrival, and forced him to brave the
terrible lane once more.

Never before had Mr. Bultitude felt so sore and insulted. But they kept
it up long after the thing had lost its first freshness -- until at last
exhaustion made them lean to mercy, and they cuffed him ignominiously
into a corner, and left him to lament his ill-treatment there till the
bell rang for dinner, for which, contrary to precedent, his recent
violent exercise had excited little appetite
he moaned
Although that afternoon, being Saturday, was a half-holiday, Mr.
Bultitude was spared the ordeal of another game at football; for a smart
storm of rain and sleet coming on about three o'clock kept the
school -- not altogether unwilling prisoners -- within doors for the day.

The boys sat in their places in their schoolroom, amusing themselves
after their several fashions -- some reading, some making libellous copies
of drawings that took their fancy in the illustrated papers, some
playing games; others, too listless to play and too dull to find
pleasure in the simplest books, filled up the time as well as they could
by quarrelling and getting into various depths of hot water. Paul sat in
a corner pretending to read a story relating the experiences of certain
infants of phenomenal courage and coolness in the Arctic regions. They
killed bears and tamed walruses all through the book; but for the first
time, perhaps, since their appearance in print their exploits fell flat.
Not, however, that this reflected any discredit upon the author's
powers, which are justly admired by all healthy-minded boys; but it was
beyond the power of literature just then to charm Mr. Bultitude's
thoughts from the recollection of his misfortunes.

As he took in all the details of his surroundings -- the warm close room;
the raw-toned desks and tables at which a rabble of unsympathetic boys
were noisily whispering and chattering, with occasional glances in his
direction, from which, taught by experience, he augured no good; the
high uncurtained windows, blurred with little stars of half-frozen rain,
and the bare, bleak branches of the trees outside tossing drearily
against a low leaden sky -- he tried in vain to cheat himself into a
dreamy persuasion that all this misery could not be real, but would fade
away as suddenly and mysteriously as it had stolen upon him.

Towards the close of the afternoon the Doctor came in and took his
place at the writing-table, where he was apparently very busy with the
composition of some sort of document, which he finished at last with
evident satisfaction at the result of his labour. Then he observed that,
according to their custom of a Saturday afternoon, the hour before
tea-time should be devoted to
So the books, chess-boards, and dominoes were all put away, and a new
steel pen and a sheet of notepaper, neatly embossed with the heading
"Crichton House School" in old English letters, having been served out
to everyone, each boy prepared himself to write down such things as
filial affection, strict truthfulness, and the desire of imparting
information might inspire between them.

Paul felt, as he clutched his writing materials, much as a shipwrecked
mariner might be expected to do at finding on his desolate island a
good-sized flag and a case of rockets. His hopes revived once more; he
forgot the smarts left by the knots in the handkerchiefs, he had a whole
hour before him -- it was possible to set several wires in motion for his
release in an hour.

Yes, he must write several letters. First, one to his solicitor
detailing, as calmly and concisely as his feelings would allow, the
shameful way in which he had been treated, and imploring him to take
measures of some sort for getting him out of his false and awkward
position; one to his head clerk, to press upon him the necessity of
prudence and caution in dealing with the impostor; notes to Bangle and
Fishwick putting them off -- they should not be outraged by an
introduction to a vulgar pantomime clown under his roof; and lastly
(this was an outburst he could not deny himself), a solemn impressive
appeal to the common humanity, if not to the ordinary filial instincts,
of his undutiful son.

His fingers tingled to begin. Sentences of burning, indignant eloquence
crowded confusedly into his head -- he would write such letters as would
carry instant conviction to the most practical and matter-of-fact
minds. The pathos and dignity of his remonstrances should melt even
Dick's selfish, callous heart.

Perhaps he overrated the power of his pen -- perhaps it would have
required more than mere ink to persuade his friends to disbelieve their
own senses, and see a portly citizen of over fifty packed into the frame
of a chubby urchin of fourteen. But, at all events, no one's faith was
put to so hard a test -- those letters were never written
said the Doctor
he
added, turning suddenly upon the unlucky Paul
It was by no means the least galling part of Mr. Bultitude's trials,
that former forgotten words and deeds of his in his original condition
were constantly turning up at critical seasons, and plunging him deeper
into the morass just when he saw some prospect of gaining firm ground.

So, on this occasion, he did remember that, being in a more than usually
bad temper one day last year, he had, on receiving a sprawling,
ill-spelt application from Dick for more pocket-money, to buy fireworks
for the 5th of November, written to make some such complaint to the
schoolmaster. He waited anxiously for the Doctor's next words; he might
want to read the letters before they were sent off, in which case Paul
would not be displeased, for it would be an easier and less dangerous
way of putting the Doctor in possession of the facts.

But his complaints were to be honoured by a much more effectual remedy,
for it naturally piqued the Doctor to be told that boys instructed under
his auspices wrote like stable-boys
he went on
and he read out the
following letter, slowly
all of
which several took down most industriously
hearty play
inquired the Doctor rather suspiciously, while Jolland observed
in an undertone that it would take some time to get _that_ down
Anabasis' of Xenophon, that master of strategy! nor
shall we, of course, neglect in either branch of study the syntax and
construction of those two noble languages
noble languages
added Jolland
parenthetically
there was much difference of opinion as to the
manner of spelling the "Teutonian Shakespeare
The Doctor finished his dictation with a roll in his voice, as much as
to say
But unexceptionable as its tone and sentiments undoubtedly were, it was
far from expressing the feelings of Mr. Bultitude. The rest accepted it
not unwillingly as an escape from the fatigue of original composition,
but to him the neat, well-balanced sentences seemed a hollow mockery. As
he wrote down each successive phrase, he wondered what Dick would think
of it, and when at last it was finished, the precious hour had gone for
another week!

In speechless disgust but without protest, for his spirit was too broken
by this last cruel disappointment, he had to fold, put into an envelope
and direct this most misleading letter under the Doctor's superintending
eye, which of course allowed him no chance of introducing a line or even
a word to counteract the tone of self-satisfaction and contentment which
breathed in every sentence of it.

He saw it stamped, and put into the postbag, and then his last gleam of
hope flickered out; he must give up struggling against the Inevitable;
he must resign himself to be educated, and perhaps flogged here, while
Dick was filling his house with clowns and pantaloons, destroying his
reputation and damaging his credit at home. Perhaps, in course of time,
he would grow accustomed to it, and, meanwhile, he would be as careful
as possible to do and say nothing to make himself remarkable in any way,
by which means he trusted, at least, to avoid any fresh calamity.

And with this resolution he went to bed on Saturday night, feeling that
this was a dreary finish to a most unpleasant week
_Every Man in his Humour
_Ibid._


Sunday came -- a day which was to begin a new week for Mr. Bultitude, and,
of course, for the rest of the Christian world as well. Whether that
week would be better or worse than the one which had just passed away he
naturally could not tell -- it could hardly be much worse.

But the Sunday itself, he anticipated, without, however, any very firm
grounds for such an assumption, would be a day of brief but grateful
respite; a day on which he might venture to claim much the same immunity
as was enjoyed in former days by the insolvent; a day, in short, which
would glide slowly by with the rather drowsy solemnity peculiar to the
British sabbath as observed by all truly respectable persons.

And yet that very Sunday, could he have foreseen it, was destined to be
the most eventful day he had yet spent at Crichton House, where none had
proved wanting in incident. During the next twelve hours he was to pass
through every variety of unpleasant sensation. Embarrassment, suspense,
fear, anxiety, dismay, and terror were to follow each other in rapid
succession, and to wind up, strangely enough, with a delicious ecstasy
of pure relief and happiness -- a fatiguing programme for any middle-aged
gentleman who had never cultivated his emotional faculties.

Let me try to tell how this came about. The getting-up bell rang an hour
later than on week-days, but the boys were expected to prepare certain
tasks suitable for the day before they rose. Mr. Bultitude found that he
was required to learn by heart a hymn in which the rhymes "join" and
throne" and
were so happily wedded that either might
conform to the other -- a graceful concession to individual taste which is
not infrequent in this class of poetry. Trivial as such a task may seem
in these days of School Boards, it gave him infinite trouble and mental
exertion, for he had not been called upon to commit anything of the kind
to memory for many years, and after mastering that, there still remained
a long chronological list (the dates approximately computed) of the
leading events before and immediately after the Deluge, which was to be
repeated
While he was wrestling desperately with these, for he was determined, as
I have said before, to do all in his power to keep himself out of
trouble, Mrs. Grimstone, in her morning wrapper, paid a visit to the
dormitories and, in spite of all Paul's attempts to excuse himself,
insisted upon pomatuming his hair -- an indignity which he felt acutely
he thought
Then there was breakfast, at which Dr. Grimstone appeared, resplendent
in glossy broadcloth, and dazzling shirt-front and semi-clerical white
tie, and after breakfast, an hour in the schoolroom, during which the
boys (by the aid of repeated references to the text) wrote out "from
memory" the hymn they had learnt, while Paul managed somehow to stumble
through his dates and events to the satisfaction of Mr. Tinkler, who, to
increase his popularity, made a point of being as easily satisfied with
such repetitions as he decently could.

After that came the order to prepare for church. There was a general
rush to the little room with the shelves and bandboxes, where church
books were procured, and great-coats and tight kid gloves put on.

When they were almost ready the Doctor came in, wearing his blandest and
most paternal expression
he said
And this he proceeded to do from a store he had with him of that most
convenient coin -- the chosen expression of a congregation's
gratitude -- the common silver threepence, for the school occupied a
prominent position in the church, and had acquired a great reputation
amongst the churchwardens for the admirable uniformity with which one
young gentleman after another "put into the plate"; and this reputation
the Doctor was naturally anxious that they should maintain.

I am sorry to say that Mr. Bultitude, fearing lest he should be asked if
he had the required sum about him, and thus his penniless condition
might be discovered and bring him trouble, got behind the door at the
beginning of the money-changing transactions and remained there till it
was over -- it seemed to him that it would be too paltry to be disgraced
for want of threepence.

Now, being thus completely furnished for their devotions, the school
formed in couples in the hall and filed solemnly out for the march to
church.

Mr. Bultitude walked nearly last with Jolland, whose facile nature had
almost forgotten his friend's shortcomings on the previous day. He kept
up a perpetual flow of chatter which, as he never stopped for an answer,
permitted Paul to indulge his own thoughts unrestrained
said Jolland
the irreverent
youth always spoke of Mrs. Grimstone in this way
said Mr. Bultitude stiffly
said Jolland
And so the pair walked on in silence; Jolland with his nose in the air,
determined that after this he really must cut his former friend as the
other fellows had done, since his devotion was appreciated so little,
and Paul watching the ascending double line of tall chimney-pot hats as
they surged before him in regular movement, and feeling a dull wonder at
finding himself setting out to church in such ill-assorted company.

They entered the church, and Paul was sent down to the extreme end of a
pew next to the one reserved for the Doctor and his family. Dulcie was
sitting there already on the other side of the partition; but she gave
no sign of having noticed his arrival, being apparently absorbed in
studying the rose-window over the altar.

He sat down in his corner with a sense of rest and almost comfort,
though the seat was not a cushioned one. He had the inoffensive Kiffin
for a neighbour, his chief tormentors were far away from him in one of
the back pews, and here at least he thought no harm could come to him.
He could allow himself safely to do what I am afraid he generally did do
under the circumstances -- snatch a few intermittent but sweet periods of
dreamless slumber.

But, while the service was proceeding, Mr. Bultitude was suddenly
horrified to observe that a young lady, who occupied a pew at right
angles to and touching that in which he sat, was deliberately making
furtive signals to him in a most unmistakable manner.

She was a decidedly pretty girl of about fifteen, with merry and daring
blue eyes and curling golden hair, and was accompanied by two small
brothers (who shared the same book and dealt each other stealthy and
vicious kicks throughout the service), and by her father, a stout,
short-sighted old gentleman in gold spectacles, who was perpetually
making the wrong responses in a loud and confident tone.

To be signalled to in a marked manner by a strange young lady of great
personal attractions might be a coveted distinction to other schoolboys,
but it simply gave Mr. Bultitude cold thrills
he thought, shocked beyond
measure as she caught his eye and coughed demurely for about the fourth
time
he said to himself presently
Miss Davenant was indeed busily engaged in pencilling something on a
blank sheet of paper; and, having finished, she folded it deftly into a
cocked-hat, wrote a few words on the outside, and placed it between the
leaves of her book.

Then, as the congregation rose for the Psalms, she gave a meaning glance
at the blushing and scandalised Mr. Bultitude and by dexterous
management of her prayer-book shot the little cocked-hat, as if
unconsciously, into the next pew.

By a very unfortunate miscalculation, however, the note missed its
proper object, and, clearing the partition, fluttered deliberately down
on the floor by Dulcie's feet.

Paul saw this with alarm; he knew that at all hazards he must get that
miserable note into his own possession and destroy it. It might have his
name somewhere about it; it might seriously compromise him.

So he took advantage of the noise the congregation made in repeating a
verse aloud (it was not a high church) to whisper to Dulcie
Dulcie had seen the whole affair and had been not a little puzzled by
it, a clandestine correspondence being a new thing in her short
experience; but she understood that in this golden-haired girl, her
elder by several years, she saw her rival, for whom Dick had so basely
abandoned her yesterday, and she was old enough to feel the slight and
the sweetness of revenge.

So she held her head rather higher than usual, with her firm little chin
projecting wilfully, and waited for the next verse but one before
retorting
whispered Paul entreatingly
said Dulcie
said Dulcie firmly
The other girl, she noticed with satisfaction, had become aware of the
situation and was evidently uneasy. She looked as imploringly as she
dared at remorseless little Dulcie, as if appealing to her not to get
her into trouble; but Dulcie bent her eyes obstinately on her book and
would not see her.

If the letter had been addressed to any other boy in the school, she
would have done her best to shield the culprits; but this she could not
bring herself to do here. She found a malicious pleasure in remaining
absolutely neutral, which of course was very wrong and ill-natured of
her.

Mr. Bultitude began now to be seriously alarmed. The fatal paper must be
seen by some one in the Doctor's pew as soon as the congregation sat
down again; and, if it reached the Doctor's hands, it was impossible to
say what misconstruction he might put upon it or what terrible
consequences might not follow.

He was innocent, perfectly innocent; but though the consciousness of
innocence is frequently a great consolation, he felt that unless he
could imbue the Doctor with it as well, it would not save him from a
flogging.

So he made one more desperate attempt to soften Dulcie's resolution
he said, very injudiciously for his
purpose
But although Dulcie had been extremely well brought up, I regret to say
that the only answer she chose to make to this appeal was that slight
contortion of the features, which with a pretty girl is euphemised as a
and with a plain one is called
When he saw it
he knew that all hope of changing her purpose must be abandoned.

Then they all sat down, and, as Paul had foreseen, there the white
cocked-hat lay on the dark pew-carpet, hideously distinct, with _billet
doux_ in every fold of it!

It could only be a question of time now. The curate was reading the
first lesson for the day, but Mr. Bultitude heard not a verse of it. He
was waiting with bated breath for the blow to fall.

It fell at last. Dulcie, either with the malevolent idea of hastening
the crisis, or (which I prefer to believe for my own part) finding that
her ex-lover's visible torments were too much for her desire of
vengeance, was softly moving a heavy hassock towards the guilty note.
The movement caught her mother's eye, and in an instant the compromising
paper was in her watchful hands.

She read it with incredulous horror, and handed it at once to the
Doctor.

The golden-haired one saw it all without betraying herself by any
outward confusion. She had probably had some experience in such matters,
and felt tolerably certain of being able, at the worst, to manage the
old gentleman in the gold spectacles. But she took an early opportunity
of secretly conveying her contempt for the traitress Dulcie, who
continued to meet her angry glances with the blandest unconsciousness.

Dr. Grimstone examined the cocked-hat through his double eyeglasses,
with a heavy thunder-cloud gathering on his brows. When he had mastered
it thoroughly, he bent forward and glared indignantly past his wife and
daughter for at least half a minute into the pew where Mr. Bultitude was
cowering, until he felt that he was coming all to pieces under the
piercing gaze.

The service passed all too quickly after that. Paul sat down and stood
up almost unconsciously with the rest; but for the first time in his
life he could have wished the sermon many times longer.

The horror of his position quite petrified him. After all his prudent
resolutions to keep out of mischief and to win the regard and confidence
of his gaoler by his good conduct, like the innocent convict in a
melodrama, this came as nothing less than a catastrophe. He walked home
in a truly dismal state of limp terror.

Fortunately for him none of the others seemed to have noticed his
misfortune, and Jolland made no further advances. But even the weather
tended to increase his depression, for it was a bleak, cheerless day,
with a bitter and searching wind sweeping the gritty roads where
yesterday's rain was turned to black ice in the ruts, and the sun shone
with a dull coppery glitter that had no warmth or geniality about it.

The nearer they came to Crichton House the more abjectly miserable
became Mr. Bultitude's state of mind. It was as much as he could do to
crawl up the steps to the front door, and his knees positively clapped
together when the Doctor, who had driven home, met them in the hall and
said in a still grave voice
He was as long about taking off his coat as he dared, but at last he
went trembling into the study, which he found empty. He remembered the
room well, with its ebony-framed etchings on the walls, bookcases and
blue china over the draped mantelpiece, even to a large case of
elaborately carved Indian chessmen in bullock-carts and palanquins, on
horses and elephants, which stood in the window-recess. It was the very
room to which he had been shown when he first called about sending his
son to the school. He had little thought then that the time would come
when he would attend there for the purpose of being flogged; few things
would have seemed less probable. Yet here he was.

But his train of thought was abruptly broken by the entrance of the
Doctor. He marched solemnly in, holding out the offending missive
he said, shaking it angrily before Paul's eyes
said Paul, at his wits' end
Paul read it. It was a silly little school-girl note, half slang and
half sentiment, signed only with the initials C.D
said the
Doctor
said Paul
said Paul
said Paul, taken unawares by the suddenness of the
question
He felt the imprudence of
such an admission as soon as he had made it
said
the Doctor
said Paul
said Paul
said the
Doctor
said Mr. Bultitude
said the Doctor, not relishing
the war being carried into his own country
said Paul rather feebly, quite overwhelmed by the narrowness of
his escape. Then with a desperate effort he found courage to add
said the
Doctor slowly
Paul was too overcome at this unexpected favour to speak his thanks. He
got away as soon as he could. His path was smoothed at last!

That afternoon the boys, or all of them who had disposed of the work set
them for the day, were sitting in the schoolroom, after a somewhat
chilly dinner of cold beef, cold tarts, and cold water, passing the time
with that description of literature known as
And here, at the risk of being guilty of a digression, I must pause to
record my admiration for this exceedingly happy form of compromise,
which is, I think, peculiar to the British and, to a certain extent, the
American nations.

It has many developments; ranging from the mild Transatlantic compound
of cookery and camp-meetings, to the semi-novel, redeemed and chastened
by an arrangement which sandwiches a sermon or a biblical lecture
between each chapter of the story -- a great convenience for the race of
skippers.

Then there are one or two illustrated magazines which it is always
allowable to read on the Sabbath without fear of rebuke from the
strictest -- though it is not quite easy to see why.

Open any one of the monthly numbers, and the chances are that you may
possibly find at one part a neat little doctrinal essay by a literary
bishop; the rest of the contents will consist of nothing more serious
than a paper upon "cockroaches and their habits" by an eminent savant; a
description of foreign travel, done in a brilliant and wholly secular
vein; and, further on again, an article on aesthetic furniture -- while the
balance of the number will be devoted to instalments of two thrilling
novels by popular authors, whose theology is seldom their strongest
point.

Oddly enough, too, when these very novels come out later in three-volume
form, with the "mark of the beast" in the shape of a circulating library
ticket upon them, they will be fortunate if they are not interdicted
altogether by some of the serious families who take in the magazines as
being
Mr. Bultitude, at all events, had reason to be grateful for this
toleration, for in one of the bound volumes supplied to him he found a
most interesting and delightfully unsectarian novel, which appealed to
his tastes as a business man, for it was all about commerce and making
fortunes by blockade-running; and though he was no novel reader as a
rule, his mind was so relieved and set at rest by the prospect of seeing
the end of his trouble at last, that he was able to occupy his mind with
the fortunes of the hero.

He naturally detected technical errors here and there. But that pleased
him, and he was becoming so deeply absorbed in the tale that he felt
seriously annoyed when Chawner came softly up to the desk at which he
was sitting, and sat down close to him, crossing his arms before him,
and leaning forward upon them with his sallow face towards Paul
he began, in a cautious, oily tone
said Paul
said Chawner
said Paul sharply
said Chawner
said Mr. Bultitude, annoyed to find his secret in
possession of this boy of all others
repeated Chawner
said Paul
Chawner grinned maliciously
he said suavely
said Paul
said Chawner
said Paul, growing puzzled
sniggered Chawner
said Mr. Bultitude
said Paul
said Chawner irritably
said Mr. Bultitude, nettled at this
assumption of authority
whispered Chawner hurriedly
And he glided back to his seat, leaving Paul in a state of vague
uneasiness. Why did this fellow, with the infernal sly face and glib
tongue, want to prevent him from righting himself with the world, and
how could he possibly prevent him? It was absurd; he would take no
notice of the young scoundrel -- he would defy him.

But he could not banish the uneasy feeling; the cup had slipped so many
times before at the critical moment that he could not be sure whose hand
would be the next to jog his elbow. And so he went down to tea with
renewed misgivings
BACON
Very possibly Chawner's interference in Mr. Bultitude's private affairs
has surprised others besides the victim of it; but the fact is that
there was a most unfortunate misunderstanding between them from the very
first, which prevented the one from seeing, the other from explaining,
the real state of the case.

Chawner, of course, no more guessed Paul's true name and nature than
anyone else who had come in contact with him in his impenetrable
disguise, and his motive for attempting to prevent an interview with the
Doctor can only, I fear, be explained by another slight digression.

The Doctor, from a deep sense of his responsibility for the morals of
those under his care, was perhaps a trifle over-anxious to clear his
moral garden of every noxious weed, and too constant in his vigilant
efforts to detect the growing shoot of evil from the moment it showed
above the surface.

As he could not be everywhere, however, it is evident that many
offences, trivial or otherwise, must have remained unsuspected and
unpunished, but for a theory which he had originated and took great
pains to propagate amongst his pupils.

The theory was that every right-minded boy ought to feel himself in such
a fiduciary position towards his master, that it became a positive duty
to acquaint him with any delinquencies he might happen to observe among
his fellows; and if, at the same time, he was oppressed by a secret
burden on his own conscience, it was understood that he might hope that
the joint revelation would go far to mitigate his own punishment.

It is doubtful whether this system, though I believe it is found
successful in Continental colleges, can be usefully applied to English
boys; whether it may not produce a habit of mutual distrust and
suspicion, and a tone the reverse of healthy.

For myself, I am inclined to think that a schoolmaster will find it
better in the long run, for both the character and morals of his school,
if he is not too anxious to play the detective, and refrains from
encouraging the more weak-minded or cowardly boys to save themselves by
turning
Dr. Grimstone thought otherwise; but it must be allowed that the system,
as in vogue at Crichton House, did not work well.

There were boys, of course, who took a sturdier view of their own rights
and duties, and despised the talebearers as they deserved; there were
others, also, too timid and too dependent on the good opinion of others
to risk the loss of it by becoming informers; but there were always one
or two whose consciences were unequal to the burden of their neighbour's
sin, and could only be relieved by frank and full confession.

Unhappily they had, as a general rule, contributed largely to the sum
of guilt themselves, and did not resort to disclosure until detection
seemed reasonably imminent.

Chawner was the leader of this conscientious band; he revelled in the
system. It gave him the means at once of gratifying the almost universal
love of power and of indulging a catlike passion for playing with the
feelings of others, which, it is to be hoped, is more uncommon.

He knew he was not popular, but he could procure most of the incidents
of popularity; he could have his little court of cringing toadies; he
could levy his tribute of conciliatory presents, and vent many private
spites and hatreds into the bargain -- and he generally did.

Having himself a tendency to acts of sly disobedience, he found it a
congenial pastime to set the fashion from time to time in some one of
the peccadilloes to which boyhood is prone, and to which the Doctor's
somewhat restrictive code added a large number, and as soon as he saw a
sufficient number of his companions satisfactorily implicated, his
opportunity came.

He would take the chief culprits aside, and profess, in strict
confidence, certain qualms of conscience which he feared could only be
appeased by unburdening his guilt-laden soul.

To this none would have had any right to object -- had it not necessarily,
or at least from Chawner's point of view, involved a full, true, and
particular account of the misdoings of each and every one; and
consequently, for some time after these professions of misgivings,
Chawner would be surrounded by a little crowd of anxiously obsequious
friends, all trying hard to overcome his scruples or persuade him at
least to omit their names from his revelations.

Sometimes he would affect to be convinced by their arguments and send
them away reassured; at others his scruples would return in an
aggravated form; and so he would keep them on tenterhooks of suspense
for days and weeks, until he was tired of the amusement -- for this
practising on the fears of weaker natures is a horribly keen delight to
some -- or until some desperate little dog, unable to bear his torture any
longer, would threaten to give himself up and make an end of it.

Then Chawner, to do him justice, always relieved him from so
disagreeable a necessity, and would go softly into the Doctor's study,
and, in a subdued and repentant tone, pour out his general confession
for the public good.

Probably the Doctor did not altogether respect the instruments he saw
fit to use in this way; some would have declined to hear the informer
out, flogged him well, and forgotten it; but Dr. Grimstone -- though he
was hardly likely to be impressed by these exhibitions of noble candour,
and did not fail to see that the prospect of obtaining better terms for
the penitent himself had something to do with them -- yet encouraged the
system as a matter of policy, went thoroughly into the whole affair, and
made it the cause of an explosion which he considered would clear the
moral atmosphere for some time to come.

I hope that, after this explanation, Chawner's opposition to Mr.
Bultitude's plans will be better understood.

After tea, he made Paul a little sign to follow him, and the two went
out together into the little glass-house beyond the schoolroom; it was
dark, but there was light enough from the room inside for them to see
each other's face
began Paul, with dignity, when he had closed the glass door
behind him
said Chawner, with an evil smirk
said the angry Mr.
Bultitude
said Chawner, more in admiration than rebuke
said Paul
said Chawner
said poor Mr. Bultitude
said Chawner
And he drew out with great caution a piece of crumpled paper and showed
it to the horrified old gentleman
said Paul, feeling absolutely checkmated
The note was too evidently genuine; Dick must have written it (as a
matter of fact he had; in a moment of pique, no doubt, at some caprice
of his real enslaver Dulcie's -- but his fickleness brought fatal results
on his poor father's undeserving head)-- if this diabolical Chawner
carried out his threats he would indeed be "done for"; he did not yet
fully understand the other's motive, but he thought that he feared lest
Paul, in declaring his own sorrows, might also accuse Tipping and Coker
of acts of cruelty and oppression, which Chawner proposed to denounce
himself at some more convenient opportunity; he hesitated painfully
said Chawner
said Paul hoarsely
said Chawner
said Paul, stung to defiance
returned Chawner meekly
And they went back to the schoolroom again, where Mr. Bultitude, boiling
with rage and seriously alarmed as well, tried to sit down and appear as
if nothing had happened.

Chawner sat down too, in a place from which he could see all Paul's
movements, and they both watched one another anxiously from the corners
of their eyes till the Doctor came in
he said as he entered
Paul's heart leaped with triumph; with his enemy out of the way, he
could carry out his purpose unhindered. The same thing apparently
occurred to Chawner, for he said mildly
said the Doctor
said the horrified Paul
Chawner's small glittering eyes were fixed on Paul menacingly as he
managed to stammer that he did want to say something in private
and he left the room abruptly.

Chawner would very probably have petitioned to stay in that evening as
well, had he had time and presence of mind to do so; as it was, he was
obliged to go away and get ready for church, but when his preparations
were made he came back to Paul, and leaning over him said with an
unpleasant scowl
said Paul, in a high state of
irritation
As he went, Mr. Bultitude thought
The evening passed quietly; the boys left at home sat in their places,
reading or pretending to read. Mr. Blinkhorn, left in charge of them,
was at his table in the corner noting up his diary. Paul was free for a
time to think over his position.

At first he was calm and triumphant; his dearest hopes, his
long-wished-for opportunity of a fair and unprejudiced hearing, were at
last to be fulfilled -- Chawner was well out of the way for the best part
of two hours -- the Doctor was very unlikely to be detained nearly so long
over one call; his one anxiety was lest he might not be able, after all,
to explain himself in a thoroughly effective manner -- he planned out a
little scheme for doing this.

He must begin gradually of course, so as not to alarm the schoolmaster
or raise doubts of his sincerity or, worse still, his sanity. Perhaps a
slight glance at instances of extraordinary interventions of the
supernatural from the earliest times, tending to show the extreme
probability of their survival on rare occasions even to the present day,
might be a prudent and cautious introduction to the subject -- only he
could not think of any, and, after all, it might weary the Doctor.

He would start somewhat in this manner
one's projected speeches are somehow generally
couched in finer language than, when it comes to the point, the tongue
can be prevailed upon to utter. Mr. Bultitude learned this opening
sentence by heart, he thought it taking and neat, the sort of thing to
fix his hearer's attention from the first.

After that he found it difficult to get any further; he knew himself
that all he was about to describe was plain, unvarnished fact -- but how
would it strike a stranger's ear? He found himself seeking ways in which
to tone down the glaring improbability of the thing as much as possible,
but in vain
he told
himself at last
Here Biddlecomb came up in a confidential manner and sat down by Paul
he began, in rather a trembling voice
thought Paul
he said
protested Biddlecomb
said Paul resentfully
said Biddlecomb humbly
said Paul drily
said Biddlecomb
remarked Mr.
Bultitude
said Biddlecomb, quite broken down
said Paul
said Biddlecomb eagerly
said Paul testily
Biddlecomb went off, looking slightly ashamed of himself but visibly
relieved from a haunting fear
thought Paul
And indeed one boy after another came up in the same way as Biddlecomb
had done, some cringing more than others, but all vowing that they had
never intended to do any harm, and entreating him to change his mind
about complaining of his ill-treatment. They brought little offerings to
propitiate him and prove the depth of their unaltered
regard -- pencil-cases and pocket-knives, and so forth, until they drove
Paul nearly to desperation. However, he succeeded in dispelling their
fears after some hot arguments, and had just sent away the last
suppliant, when he saw Jolland too rise and come towards him.

Jolland leaned across Paul's desk with folded arms and looked him full
in the face with his shallow light green eyes
he began
Mr. Bultitude had in
satisfying their alarm taken care to let them know his private opinion
of them, which was not flattering
said Paul, who was beginning to have enough of it
This was an unpalatable way of putting things, but Paul could not help
seeing that there was some truth in it. Jolland had been kind to him,
too, in a careless sort of way, and at some cost to himself; so it was
with more mildness than temper that he answered him
said Jolland, mollified
said Paul, not caring to undeceive him
All these interviews had taken time. He was alarmed on looking at the
clock to see that it was nearly eight; the Doctor was a long time over
that call -- for the first time he began to feel uneasy -- he made hurried
mental calculations as to the probability of the Doctor or Chawner being
the first to return.

The walk to church took about twenty minutes; say the service took an
hour, allowing for the return, he might expect Chawner by about
half-past eight; it was striking the hour now -- half an hour only in
which he could hope for any favourable result from the interview!

For he saw this plainly, that if Chawner were once permitted to get the
Doctor's ear first and show him that infamous love-note, no explanation
of his (even if he had nerve to make it then, which he doubted) could
possibly seem anything more than a desperate and far-fetched excuse; if
he could anticipate Chawner, on the other hand, and once convince the
Doctor of the truth of his story, the informer's malice would fall flat.

And still the long hand went rapidly on, as Mr. Bultitude sat staring
stupidly at it with a faint sick feeling -- it had passed the quarter
now -- why did the Doctor delay in this unwarrantable manner? What a farce
social civilities were -- if he had allowed himself to be prevailed on to
stay to supper! Twenty minutes past; Chawner and the others might return
at any moment -- a ring at the bell; they were there! all was over
now -- no, he was saved, that was Dr. Grimstone's voice in the hall -- what
an unconscionable time he was taking off his greatcoat and gloves.

But all comes to the man who waits. In another moment the Doctor looked
in, singled out Mr. Bultitude with a sharp glance, and a
and led the way to his study.

Paul staggered rather than walked after him: as usual at the critical
moment his carefully prepared opening had deserted him -- his head felt
heavy and crowded -- he wanted to run away, but forced himself to overcome
such a suicidal proceeding and follow to the study.

There was a lighted reading-lamp with a green glass shade upon the
table. The Doctor sat down by it in an armchair by the fire, crossed his
legs, and joined the tops of his fingers together
he
said again
said poor Mr. Bultitude in a thick voice;
it was all that occurred to him to say
said the Doctor blandly.

So Paul drew a chair opposite the Doctor and sat down. He tried
desperately to clear his head and throat and begin; but the only
distinct thought in his mind just then was that the green lamp-shade
lent a particularly ghastly hue to the Doctor's face
said the latter, after a long minute, in
which a little skeleton clock on the mantelpiece ticked loudly
But this only reminded Paul that there was every need for hurry -- Chawner
might come in, and follow him here, unless he made haste.

Still, he could only say
The Doctor gave a short, dry cough
he said
Here he made another dead
stop, while the Doctor raised his heavy eyebrows, and looked at the
clock
he inquired at last, with rather suspicious suavity
said Paul, in a highly nervous condition
asked the Doctor suddenly.

Paul could hear steps and voices in the adjoining cloakroom -- the
churchgoers had returned
he answered, losing his head
completely now
said
the Doctor
There was a tap at the door. Paul started to his feet in a panic
he shrieked, finding his voice at last
said the Doctor
And the door opened softly, and Chawner stepped meekly in; he was rather
pale and breathed hard, but was otherwise quite composed
said the Doctor impatiently
said Chawner
explained Chawner
shouted Paul
said the Doctor
he
went on, with a gulp (he never could quite overcome a repulsion to the
boy
said Chawner, with an odious side smirk of
triumph at Paul, who, quite crushed by the horror of the situation, had
collapsed feebly on his chair again
And he
handed Dick's unlucky scrawl to the Doctor, who took it to the lamp and
read it hurriedly through.

After that there was a terrible moment of dead silence; then the Doctor
looked up and said shortly
When they were alone once more he turned upon the speechless Paul with
furious scorn and indignation
he
thundered, pacing restlessly up and down the room in his excitement,
till Paul felt very like Daniel, without his sense of security
Paul made some faint and inarticulate remark about being a family
man -- always most particular, and so forth -- luckily it passed unheard
continued the Doctor
said Paul, desperately
retorted the Doctor
thought Paul
said the Doctor again
Paul leaped up incredulous
the Doctor said sternly
as if Mr. Bultitude was likely to expostulate
Mr. Bultitude covered his face with his hands, to hide, not his shame
and distress, but his indecent rapture. It seemed almost too good to be
true! He saw himself about to be provided with every means of reaching
home in comfort and safety. He need dread no pursuit now. There was no
chance, either, of his being forced to return to the prison-house -- the
Doctor's letter would convince even Dick of the impossibility of that.
And, best of all, this magnificent stroke of good luck had been obtained
without the ignominy and pain of a flogging, without even the unpleasant
necessity of telling his strange secret.

But (having gained some experience during his short stay at the school)
he had the duplicity to pretend to sob bitterly
continued the Doctor
I said in another chapter that this Sunday would find Paul, at its
close, after a trying course of emotions, in a state of delicious
ecstasy of pure relief and happiness -- and really that scarcely seems too
strong an expression for his feelings.

When he found himself locked securely into a comfortable, warm bedroom,
with curtains and a carpet in it, safe from the persecutions of all
those terrible boys, and when he remembered that this was actually the
last night of his stay here -- that he would certainly see his own home
before noon next day, the reaction was so powerful that he could not
refrain from skipping and leaping about the room in a kind of hysterical
gaiety.

And as he laid his head down on a yielding lavender-scented pillow, his
thoughts went back without a pang to the varied events of the day; they
had been painful, very painful, but it was well worth while to have gone
through them to appreciate fully the delightful intensity of the
contrast. He freely forgave all his tormentors, even Chawner -- for had
not Chawner procured his release?-- and he closed his eyes at last with a
smile of Sybaritic satisfaction and gentle longing for the Monday's dawn
to break.

And yet some, after his experiences, would have had their misgivings
Blithe and gay was Mr. Bultitude when he opened his eyes on Monday
morning and realised his incredible good fortune; in a few hours he
would be travelling safely and comfortably home, with every facility for
regaining his rights. He chuckled -- though his sense of humour was not
large -- he chuckled, as he lay snugly in bed, to think of Dick's
discomfiture on seeing him return so unexpectedly; he began to put it
down, quite unwarrantably, to his own cleverness, as having conceived
and executed such a stroke of genius as procuring his own expulsion.

He remained in bed until long after the getting-up bell had rung,
feeling that his position ensured him perfect impunity in this, and when
he rose at length it was in high spirits, and he dressed himself with a
growing toleration for things in general, very unlike his ordinary frame
of mind. When he had finished his toilet, the Doctor entered the room
he said gravely
Mr. Bultitude considered that such an acknowledgment could not possibly
do any harm, so he said -- as, indeed, he might with perfect truth -- that
said the Doctor, more briskly
gasped Mr. Bultitude, feeling very uncomfortable all at once
Paul faltered, with a sudden sinking sensation
said the Doctor
said Paul faintly
Paul made a frantic attempt to dissuade him from his terrible
determination
he said
said the Doctor
said Paul
eagerly
said
the Doctor
And he stalked out of the room. Perhaps, though he did not admit this
even to himself, there were more considerations for commuting the
sentence of expulsion than those he had mentioned. Boys are not often
expelled from private schools, except for especially heinous offences,
and in this case there was no real reason why the Doctor should be
Quixotic enough to throw up a portion of his income -- particularly if he
could produce as great a moral effect by other means.

But his clemency was too much for Mr. Bultitude; he threw himself on the
bed and raved at the hideous fate in store for him; ten short minutes
ago, and he had been so happy -- so certain of release -- and now, not only
was he as far from all hope of escape as ever, but he had the certainty
before him of a sound flogging in less than two hours!

Just after something has befallen us which, for good or ill, will make a
great change in our lives, what a totally new aspect the common everyday
things about us are apt to wear -- the book we were reading, the letter we
had begun, the picture we knew -- what a new and tender attraction they
may have for us, or what a grim and terrible irony!

Something of this Paul felt dimly, as he finished dressing, in a dazed,
unconscious manner. The comfortable bedroom, with its delicately-toned
wall-paper and flowery cretonnes, had become altogether hateful in his
eyes now. Instead of feeling grateful (as he surely ought to have been)
for the one night of perfect security and comfort he had passed there,
he only loathed it for the delusive peace it had brought him.

There was a gentle tap at the door, and Dulcie came in, bearing a tray
with his breakfast, and looking like a little Royalist bearing food to a
fugitive Cavalier; though Paul did not quite carry out his share of the
simile
she said, almost cheerfully
Mr. Bultitude sat on a chair and groaned
said Dulcie, pouting
Dulcie had not been told the sequel to
the Davenant episode, which was quite as well for Paul
sighed Paul
prescribed Dulcie decidedly
cried Paul, with a short howl of distress at this suggestion
said Dulcie
consolingly
said Paul, with a sickly smile
said Dulcie
cried Paul
said Dulcie
said Paul
Dulcie set down the tray, and, putting her hands behind her, leaned
against a corner of a wardrobe
she said, with a little tremble in her
voice
said Paul
Dulcie shook out her long brown hair, and clenched her small fist in an
undeniable passion, for she had something of her father's hot temper
when roused
she said, moving with great dignity
towards the door
And with this parting shot she was gone.

Mr. Bultitude wandered disconsolately about the upper part of the house
after this, not daring to go down, and not able to remain in any one
place. The maids who came up to make the beds looked at him with pitiful
interest, but he was too proud to implore help from them. To hide would
only make matters worse, for, as he had not a penny in his pocket, and
no probability of being able to borrow one, he must remain in the house
till hunger forced him from his hiding-place -- supposing they did not
hunt him out long before that time.

The shouts of the boys in the playground during their half-hour's play
had long since died away; he heard the clock in the hall strike
eleven -- time for him to seek his awful rendezvous. The Doctor had not
forgotten him, he found, for presently the butler came up and
ceremoniously announced that the Doctor
He stumbled downstairs in a half-unconscious condition, the butler threw
open the two doors which led to the schoolroom, and Paul tottered in,
more dead than alive with shame and fear.

The whole school were at their places, with no books before them, and
arranged as if to hear a lecture. Mr. Blinkhorn alone was absent, for,
not liking these exhibitions, he had taken an opportunity of slipping
out into the playground, round which he was now solemnly trotting at the
"double" with elbows squared and head up; an exercise which he said was
an excellent thing for the back and lungs. He had a habit of suddenly
leaving the class he was taking to indulge in it for a few minutes,
returning breathless but refreshed.

Mr. Tinkler was at his seat, wearing that faint grin on his face with
which he might have prepared to see a pig killed or a bull-fight, and
all the boys fixed their eyes expectantly on Mr. Bultitude as he
appeared at the doorway
said the Doctor, who was standing at his
writing-table in an attitude
Paul obeyed and stood where he was told,
looking, as he felt, absolutely boneless
began the Doctor in an impressive bass
he continued
the Doctor on occasions like these
never spared his best epithets, and Paul soon began to feel himself a
very villain
continued the Doctor, now allowing his powerful voice to boom to
its full compass
With these awful words the Doctor left the room, leaving Paul in a
state of abject horror and dread which need not be described. Never,
never again would he joke, as he had been wont to do with Dick in
lighter moods, on the subject of corporal punishment under any
circumstances -- it was no fit theme for levity; if this -- this outrage
were really done to him, he could never be able to hold up his head
again. What if it were to get about in the city!

The boys, who had sunk, as they always did, into a state of torpid awe
under the Doctor's eloquence, now recovered spirits enough to rally Paul
with much sprightly humour
said some, and imitated for Paul's
instruction the action of caning by slapping a ruler upon a copy-book
with a dreadful fidelity and resonance; others sought to cross-examine
him upon the love-letter, it appearing from their casual remarks that
not a few had been also honoured by communications from the artless Miss
Davenant.

It is astonishing how unfeeling even ordinary good-natured boys can be
at times.

Chawner sat at his desk with raised shoulders, rubbing his hands, and
grinning like some malevolent ape
he
murmured
And still the Doctor lingered. Some kindly suggested that he was
But the more general opinion was that he had been detained by
some visitor; for it appeared that (though Paul had not noticed it)
several had heard a ring at the bell. The suspense was growing more and
more unbearable.

At last the door opened in a slow ominous manner, and the Doctor
appeared. There was a visible change in his manner, however. The white
heat of his indignation had died out: his expression was grave but
distinctly softened -- and he had nothing in his hand
he said; and Paul, still uncertain
whether the scene of his disgrace was only about to be shifted, or what
else this might mean, followed him into the hall
said the Doctor, when they were outside
Paul staggered. Had Dick the brazen effrontery to come here to taunt him
in his slavery? What was the meaning of it? What should he say to him?
He could not answer the Doctor but by a vacant stare
said the Doctor
here Mr. Bultitude could _not_ agree with him
and the Doctor shook his head sadly, and turned away.

With a curious mixture of shame, anger, and impatience, Paul turned the
handle of the dining-room door. He was to meet Dick face to face once
more. The final duel must be fought out between them here. Who would be
the victor?

It was a strange sensation on entering to see the image of what he had
so lately been standing by the mantelpiece. It gave a shock to his sense
of his own identity. It seemed so impossible that that stout substantial
frame could really contain Dick. For an instant he was totally at a loss
for words, and stood pale and speechless in the presence of his
unprincipled son.

Dick on his side seemed at least as much embarrassed. He giggled
uneasily, and made a sheepish offer to shake hands, which was
indignantly declined.

As Paul looked he saw distinctly that his son's fraudulent imitation of
his father's personal appearance had become deteriorated in many
respects since that unhappy night when he had last seen it. It was then
a copy, faultlessly accurate in every detail. It was now almost a
caricature, a libel!

The complexion was nearly sallow, with the exception of the nose, which
had rather deepened in colour. The skin was loose and flabby, and the
eyes dull and a little bloodshot. But perhaps the greatest alteration
was in the dress. Dick wore an old light tweed shooting-coat of his, and
a pair of loose trousers of blue serge; while, instead of the formally
tied black neckcloth his father had worn for a quarter of a century, he
had a large scarf round his neck of some crude and gaudy colour; and the
conventional chimney-pot hat had been discarded for a shabby old
wide-brimmed felt wideawake.

Altogether, it was by no means the costume which a British merchant,
with any self-respect whatever, would select, even for a country visit.

And thus they met, as perhaps never, since this world was first set
spinning down the ringing grooves of change, met father and son before
_Spectator
SCHILLER, _Don Carlos_.


Paul was the first to break a very awkward silence
he said, with suppressed rage
said Dick
observed Dick
he said with a grin
said Dick
These,
however, were not his only and his principal motives. He had come down
to get a sight of Dulcie
said Mr. Bultitude, with ponderous sarcasm
said Dick
said Dick soothingly
said Paul
said Dick
he said abruptly as a sudden hope seized him
said Dick
said Paul, trying to frighten him
retorted Dick
said Paul
Dick was a little alarmed at this, but he soon said
said Paul, with a suppressed groan
said Dick composedly
said Paul, with forced calm
moaned Mr. Bultitude
said Dick
asked Paul
returned Dick frankly
This suggestion almost maddened Paul. He made one stride forward, and
faced his son with blazing eyes
he said, between his teeth
Dick had started back at first in unmistakable alarm at this unexpected
defiance, probably feeling his self-possession unequal to such a test;
but, when Paul had finished, he said doggedly
said Paul
sternly, going to the door as if to call the Doctor, though he shrank
secretly from so extreme and dangerous a measure.

There was a hesitation in his manner, in spite of the firmness of his
words, which Dick was not likely to miss
he said
And,
opening his coat, he pulled out from his waistcoat pocket one end of his
watch-chain. Hanging to it, attached by a cheap gilt fastening of some
sort, was a small grey tablet. Paul knew it at once -- it was the Garuda
Stone
said Dick, as Paul was about to move
towards him -- with what object he scarcely knew himself
said Paul, in a broken voice, for, wild as the threat was, he
could not afford to despise it after his experiences of the stone's
power
said Dick
said Paul anxiously
said Dick
There was a pause, in which the conversation seemed about to flag
hopelessly, but at last Dick said, almost as if he felt some compunction
for his present unfilial attitude
But these dazzling bribes had no influence upon Mr. Bultitude; nothing
short of complete restitution would ever satisfy him, and he was too
proud and too angry at his crushing defeat to even pretend to be in the
least pacified
he said bitterly
said Dick, feeling tolerably secure, now he had
disposed of the main difficulty
Paul turned away his head, lest Dick should see the sudden exultation he
knew it must betray, as he said, with an effort to appear unconcerned
said Dick
said Mr. Bultitude
said Dick
said his father, almost humbly
said
Dick, rather unkindly
And he held out a sovereign, never dreaming what it signified to Paul,
who clutched it with feelings too great for words, though gratitude was
not a part of them, for was it not his own money
said Dick
Dr. Grimstone came in with the air of a man who has a painful duty to
perform; he started slightly as his eye noted the change in his
visitor's dress and appearance
he began gravely
Dick was plainly, in spite of his altered circumstances, by no means at
ease in the schoolmaster's presence; he stood, shifting from foot to
foot on the hearth-rug, turning extremely red and obstinately declining
to raise his eyes from the ground
he stammered at last
said the Doctor, slightly shocked at this
coarse way of putting things
said Dick
Dick showed a painful inclination to giggle here
Dick whistled sharply
he cried
and he
wagged his head reprovingly at his disgusted father, who longed to
denounce his hypocrisy, but dared not
said the Doctor
(though he was in truth more than scandalised by the composure with
which his announcement was received
Paul was only just able to control his rage by a great effort
said Dick
said Dr. Grimstone very stiffly
explained Dick, with a perilous approach to digging the other
in the ribs
said Dick, feeling that he had made a mistake
said the
Doctor
suggested Dick, while Paul writhed where
he stood
said the Doctor
Paul heard this with indescribable anxiety; he had begun to feel
tolerably sure that his evil hour was postponed _sine die_, but might
not Dick be cruel and selfish enough to remain neutral, or even side
with the enemy, in support of his assumed character?

Luckily he was not
he said awkwardly
said Dick
he added hastily
asked the Doctor
said Dick, blushing furiously
said the
Doctor
Dick's face fell
he muttered awkwardly
said Dick gloomily, probably disappointed to find that he
was so little missed, and not suspecting that his father had been
accepted as a substitute
and he
took Dick out to the schoolroom -- Paul following out of curiosity
said the Doctor, as he opened
the first baize door. There was a suspicious hubbub and hum of voices
from within; but as they entered every boy was bent over his books with
the rapt absorption of the devoted student -- an absorption that was the
direct effect of the sound the door-handle made in turning
said the Doctor airily, looking round
Dick stood in the doorway, looking (if the truth must be told)
uncommonly foolish. He had wanted, in coming there, to enjoy the
contrast between the past and present -- which accounts for a good many
visits of "old boys" to the scene of their education. But, confronted
with his former schoolfellows, he was seized at first with an utterly
unreasonable fear of detection.

The class behaved as classes usually do on such occasions. The good boys
smirked and the bad ones stared -- the general expression being one of
uneasy curiosity. Dick said never a word, feeling strangely bashful and
nervous
touching that young gentleman on the
shoulder, and making him several degrees more uncomfortable
said Dick, who had once cut
his knuckles against it
said Dick
he went on, gradually
overcoming his first nervousness
exclaimed the Doctor with naive surprise
Chawner looked down his nose with a feeble attempt at a gratified
simper, while his neighbours giggled with furtive relish
said Dick at last, after a long look at all the old familiar
objects
And he went out, leaving behind him the impression that
He paused at the open front door, to which Paul and the Doctor had
accompanied him
he said
he added in a lower tone to his father, who was standing by,
inexpressibly pained and disgusted by his utter want of dignity
And, as he skipped jauntily down the steps to the gateway, the Doctor
followed his unwieldy, oddly-dressed form with his eyes, and, inclining
his head gravely to Dick's sweeping wave of the hand, asked with a
compassionate tone in his voice
And Mr. Bultitude's feelings prevented him from making any intelligible
reply
Paul never quite knew how the remainder of that day passed at Crichton
House. He was ordered to join a class which was more or less engaged
with some kind of work: he had a hazy idea that it was Latin, though it
may have been Greek; but he was spared the necessity of taking any
active part in the proceedings, as Mr. Blinkhorn was not disposed to be
too exacting with a boy who in one short morning had endured a sentence
of expulsion, a lecture, the immediate prospect of a flogging, and a
paternal visit, and, as before, mercifully left him alone.

His classmates, however, did not show the same chivalrous delicacy; and
Paul had to suffer many unmannerly jests and gibes at his expense,
frequent and anxious inquiries as to the exact nature of his treatment
in the dining-room, with sundry highly imaginative versions of the same,
while there was much candid and unbiassed comment on the appearance and
conduct of himself and his son.

But he bore it unprotesting -- or, rather, he scarcely noticed it; for all
his thoughts were now entirely taken up by one important subject -- the
time and manner of his escape.

Thanks to Dick's thoughtless liberality, he had now ample funds to carry
him safely home. It was hardly likely that any more unexpected claims
could be brought against him now, particularly as he had no intention
of publishing his return to solvency. He might reasonably consider
himself in a position to make his escape at the very first favourable
opportunity.

When would that opportunity present itself? It must come soon. He could
not wait long for it. Any hour might yet see him pounced upon and
flogged heartily for some utterly unknown and unsuspected transgression;
or the golden key which would unlock his prison bars might be lost in
some unlucky moment; for his long series of reverses had made him loth
to trust to Fortune, even when she seemed to look smilingly once more
upon him.

Fortune's countenance is apt to be so alarmingly mobile with some
unfortunates.

But in spite of the new facilities given him for escape, and his strong
motives for taking advantage of them, he soon found to his utter dismay
that he shrank from committing himself to so daring and dangerous a
course, just as much as when he had tried to make a confidant of the
Doctor.

For, after all, could he be sure of himself? Would his ill-luck suffer
him to seize the one propitious moment, or would that fatal
self-distrust and doubt that had paralysed him for the past week seize
him again just at the crisis?

Suppose he did venture to take the first irrevocable step, could he rely
on himself to go through the rest of his hazardous enterprise? Was he
cool and wary enough? He dared not expect an uninterrupted run. Had he
ruses and expedients at command on any sudden check?

If he could not answer all these doubts favourably, was it not sheer
madness to take to flight at all?

He felt a dismal conviction that his success would have to depend, not
on his own cunning, but on the forbearance or blindness of others. The
slightest _contretemps_ must infallibly upset him altogether.

The fact was, he had all his life been engaged in the less eventful and
contentious branches of commerce. His will had seldom had to come in
contact with others, and when it did so, he had found means, being of a
prudent and cautious temperament, of avoiding disagreeable personal
consequences by timely compromises or judicious employment of delegates.
He had generally found his fellow-men ready to meet him reasonably as an
equal or a superior.

But now he must be prepared to see in everyone he met a possible enemy,
who would hand him over to the tyrant on the faintest suspicion. They
were spies to be baffled or disarmed, pursuers to be eluded. The
smallest slip in his account of himself would be enough to undo him.

No wonder that, as he thought over all this, his heart quailed within
him.

They say -- the paradox-mongers say -- that it requires a far higher degree
of moral courage for a soldier in action to leave the ranks under fire
and seek a less distinguished position towards the rear, than would
carry him on with the rest to charge a battery.

This may be true, though it might not prove a very valuable defence at a
court-martial; but, at all events, Mr. Bultitude found, when it came to
the point, that it was almost impossible for him to screw up his courage
to run away.

It is not a pleasant state, this indecision whether to stay passively
and risk the worst or avoid it by flight, and the worst of it is that,
whatever course is eventually forced upon us, it finds us equally
unprepared, and more liable from such indecision to bungle miserably in
the sequel.

Paul might never have gained heart to venture, but for an unpleasant
incident that took place during dinner and a discovery he made after it.

They happened to have a particularly unpopular pudding that day; a
pallid preparation of suet, with an infrequent currant or two embalmed
in it, and Paul was staring at his portion of this delicacy
disconsolately enough, wondering how he should contrive to consume and,
worse still, digest it, when his attention was caught by Jolland, who
sat directly opposite him.

That young gentleman, who evidently shared the general prejudice against
the currant pudding, was inviting Mr. Bultitude's attention to a little
contrivance of his own for getting rid of it, which consisted in
delicately shovelling the greater part of what was on his plate into a
large envelope held below the table to receive it.

This struck Paul as a heaven-sent method of avoiding the difficulty, and
he had just got the envelope which had held Barbara's letter out of his
pocket, intending to follow Jolland's example, when the Doctor's voice
made him start guiltily and replace the envelope in his pocket
said the Doctor
explained Jolland, who had now got the remains of
his pudding safely bestowed
said the Doctor, who happened to have been
watching him
said Jolland, as if it were the
most natural thing in the world to send bulky portions of pudding by
post
inquired the Doctor in
his deepest tone.

Jolland felt a difficulty in explaining that he had done so because he
wished to avoid eating it, and with a view to interring it later on in
the playground: he preferred silence
thundered the Doctor
Jolland seemed stupefied, though relieved, by the unexpected
construction put upon his conduct, as he gulped down the intercepted
fragments of pudding, while the rest diligently cleared their plates
with as much show of appreciation as they could muster.

Mr. Bultitude shuddered at this one more narrow escape. If he had been
detected -- as he must have been in another instant -- in smuggling pudding
in an envelope he might have incautiously betrayed his real motives, and
then, as the Doctor was morbidly sensitive concerning all complaints of
the fare he provided, he would have got into worse trouble than the
unfortunate Jolland, to say nothing of the humiliation of being detected
in such an act.

It was a solemn warning to him of the dangers he was exposed to hourly,
while he lingered within those walls; but his position was still more
strongly brought home to him by the terrible discovery he made shortly
afterwards.

He was alone in the schoolroom, for the others had all gone down into
the playground, except Jolland, who was confined in one of the
class-rooms below, when the thought came over him to test the truth of
Dick's hint about a name cut on the Doctor's writing-table.

He stole up to it guiltily, and, lifting the slanting desk which stood
there, examined the surface below. Dick had been perfectly correct.
There it was, glaringly fresh and distinct, not large but very deeply
cut and fearfully legible
It might have been done that
day. Dick had probably performed it out of bravado, or under the
impression that he was not going to return after the holidays.

Paul dropped the desk over the fatal letters with a shudder. The
slightest accidental shifting of it must disclose them -- nothing but a
miracle could have kept them concealed so long. When they did come to
light, he knew from what he had seen of the Doctor, that the act would
be considered as an outrage of the blackest and most desperate kind. He
would most unquestionably get a flogging for it!

He fetched a large pewter ink-pot, and tried nervously to blacken the
letters with the tip of a quill, to make them, if possible, rather less
obtrusive than they were. All in vain; they only stood out with more
startling vividness when picked out in black upon the brown-stained
deal. He felt very like a conscience-stricken murderer trying to hide a
corpse that _wouldn't_ be buried. He gave it up at last, having only
made a terrible mess with the ink.

That settled it. He must fly. The flogging must be avoided at all
hazards. If an opportunity delayed its coming, why, he must do without
the opportunity -- he must make one. For good or ill, his mind was made up
now for immediate flight.

All that afternoon, while he sat trying to keep his mind upon long sums
in Bills of Parcels, which disgusted him as a business man, by the
glaring improbability of their details, his eye wandered furtively down
the long tables to where the Doctor sat at the head of the class. Every
chance movement of the principal's elbow filled him with a sickening
dread. A hundred times did those rudely carved letters seem about to
start forth and denounce him.

It was a disquieting afternoon for Paul.

But the time dragged wearily on, and still the desk loyally kept its
secret. The dusk drew on and the gas-burners were lit. The younger boys
came up from the lower class-room and were sent out to play; the Doctor
shortly afterwards dismissed his own class to follow them, and Paul and
his companions had the room to themselves.

He sat there on the rough form with his slate before him, hearing
half-unconsciously the shouts, laughter, and ring of feet coming up from
the darkness outside, and the faint notes of a piano, which filtered
through the double doors from one of the rooms, where a boy was
practising Haydn's
from Hamilton's exercise book, a surprise
which he rendered as a mildly interjectional form of astonishment.

All the time Paul was racked with an intense burning desire to get up
and run for it then, before it became too late; but cold fits of doubt
and fear preserved him from such lunacy -- he would wait, his chance might
come before long.

His patience was rewarded; the Doctor came in, looking at his watch, and
said
Mr. Tinkler, who had been entangling himself frightfully in intricate
calculations upon the blackboard, without making a single convert, was
only too glad to take advantage of the suggestion, and Paul followed the
rest into the playground with a sense of relief.

The usual "chevy" was going on there, with more spirit than usual,
perhaps, because the darkness allowed of practical jokes and surprises,
and offered great facilities for paying off old grudges with secrecy and
despatch, and as the Doctor had come to the door of the greenhouse, and
was looking on, the players exerted themselves still more, till the
"prison" to which most of one side had been consigned by being run down
and touched by their fleeter enemies was filled with a long line of
captives holding hands and calling out to be released.

Paul, who had run out vaguely from his base, was promptly pursued and
made prisoner by an unnecessarily vigorous thump in the back, after
which he took his place at the bottom of the line of imprisoned ones.

But the enemy's spirit began to slacken; one after another of the
players still left to the opposite side succeeded in outrunning pursuit
and touching the foremost prisoner for the time being, so as to set him
free by the rules of the game. The Doctor went in again, and the enemy
relapsed as usual into total indifference, so that Paul, without exactly
knowing how, soon found himself the only one left in gaol, unnoticed and
apparently forgotten.

He could not see anything through the darkness, but he heard the voices
of the boys disputing at the other side of the playground; he looked
round; at his right was the indistinct form of a large laurel bush,
behind that he knew was the playground gate. Could it be that his chance
had come at last?

He slipped behind the laurel and waited, holding his breath; the dispute
still went on; no one seemed to have noticed him, probably the darkness
prevented all chance of that; he went on tip-toe to the gate -- it was not
locked.

He opened it very carefully a little way; it was forbearing enough not
to creak, and the next moment he was outside, free to go where he would!

Escape, after all, was simple enough when he came to try it; he could
hardly believe at first that he really was free at last; free with money
enough in his pocket to take him home, with the friendly darkness to
cover his retreat; free to go back and confront Dick on his own ground,
and, by force, or fraud, get the Garuda Stone into his own hands once
more.

As yet he never doubted that it would be easy enough to convince his
household, if necessary, of the truth of his story, and enlist them one
and all on his side; all that he required, he thought, was caution; he
must reach the house unobserved, and wait and watch, and the deuce would
be in it if the stone were not safe in his pocket again before twelve
hours had gone by.

All this time he was still within a hundred yards or so of the
playground wall; he must decide upon some particular route, some
definite method of ordering his flight; to stay where he was any longer
would clearly be unwise, yet, where should he go first?

If he went to the station at once, how could he tell that he should be
lucky enough to catch a train without having to wait long for it, and
unless he did that, he would almost certainly be sought for first on the
station platform, and might be caught before a train was due?

At last, with an astuteness he had not suspected himself of possessing,
which was probably the result of the harrowing experiences he had lately
undergone, he hit upon a plan of action
he
thought
With this intention he walked on towards the town till he came to a
small terrace of shops, when he went into the first, which was a
stationer's and toy-dealer's, with a stock in trade of cheap wooden toys
and incomprehensible games, drawing slates, penny packets of stationery
and cards of pen and pencil-holders, and a particularly stuffy
atmosphere; the proprietor, a short man with a fat white face with a
rich glaze all over it and a fringe of ragged brown whisker meeting
under his chin, was sitting behind the counter posting up his ledger.

Paul looked round the shop in search of something to purchase, and at
last said, more nervously than he expected to do
He thought a pencil-case would be an
innocent, unsuspicious thing to ask for. The man set rows of cards
containing pencil-cases of every imaginable shape on the counter before
him, and when Mr. Bultitude had chosen and paid for one, the stationer
asked if there would be anything else, and if he might send it for him
he added.

A guilty dread of discovery made Paul anxious to deny this at once
he said
he said, consulting a table which hung behind him
said Mr. Bultitude
said the man, with a rather peculiar intonation
said Paul desperately, without very well knowing what he said
said the stationer
Mr. Bultitude saw what a fearful trap he had fallen into and stood
speechless
said the little stationer at last, with a not
unkindly grin
Mr. Bultitude began to shuffle feebly towards the door
he
protested in great discomposure
said the man
said Paul; for something in the man's manner inspired confidence
said Paul, and he meant it. It was a new
experience to find anyone offering him assistance. He left the close
little shop, crossed the road, and started off in the direction
indicated to him at a brisk trot.

His steps rang out cheerfully on the path ironbound with frost. He was
almost happy again under the exhilarating glow of unusual exercise and
the excitement of escape and regained freedom.

He ran on, past a series of villa residences enclosed in varnished
palings and adorned with that mediaeval abundance of turrets, balconies,
and cheap stained-glass, which is accepted nowadays as a guarantee of
the tenant's culture, and a satisfactory substitute for effective
drainage. After the villas came a church, and a few yards farther on the
road turned with a sharp curve into the main thoroughfare leading to the
station.

He was so near it that he could hear the shrill engine whistles, and the
banging of trucks on the railway sidings echoed sharply from the
neighbouring houses. He was saved, in sight of haven at last!

Full of delight at the thought, he put on a still greater pace, and
turning the corner without looking, ran into a little party of three,
which was coming in the opposite direction.

Fate's vein of irony was by no means worked out yet. As he was
recovering from the collision, and preparing to offer or accept an
apology, as the case might be, he discovered to his horror that he had
fallen amongst no strangers.

The three were his old acquaintances, Coker, Coggs, and the virtuous
Chawner -- of whom he had fondly hoped to have seen the last for ever!

The moral and physical shock of such an encounter took all Mr.
Bultitude's remaining breath away. He stood panting under the sickly
rays of a street-lamp, the very incarnation of helpless, hopeless
dismay
said Coker
said Coggs
said Paul, casting about for some explanation of
his appearance
said Chawner
Coggs growled sulkily; Coker gave a tragic groan, and said
His last words suggested a pretext to Paul, of which he hastened to make
use
he said
It did not sound a very probable combination; but Paul used the first
names that occurred to him, and, as it happened, aroused no suspicions,
for the boys read no newspapers
said Coker
This was at least a move in the right direction; for the three began at
once to retrace their steps. But, unfortunately, all these explanations
had taken time, and before they had gone many yards, Mr. Bultitude was
horrified to hear the station-bell ring loudly, and immediately after a
cloud of white steam rose above the station roof as the London train
clanked cumbrously in, and was brought to with a prolonged screeching of
brakes.

The others were walking very slowly. At the present pace it would be
almost impossible to reach the train in time. He looked round at them
anxiously
he asked
said Coker scornfully
said Paul briskly, very grateful for the permission
And run he did, with all his might, rushing headlong through the gates,
threading his way between the omnibuses and under the Roman noses of the
mild fly-horses in the enclosure, until at length he found himself
inside the little booking-office.

He was not too late; the train was still at the platform, the engine
getting up steam with a dull roar. But he dared not risk detection by
travelling without a ticket. There was time for that, too. No one was at
the pigeon-hole but one old lady.

But, unhappily, the old lady considered taking a ticket as a solemn rite
to be performed with all due caution and deliberation. She had already
catechised the clerk upon the number of stoppages during her proposed
journey, and exacted earnest assurances from him that she would not be
called upon to change anywhere in the course of it; and as Paul came up
she was laying out the purchase-money for her ticket upon the ledge and
counting it, which, the fare being high and the coins mostly halfpence,
seemed likely to take some time
cried Mr. Bultitude, panting and
desperate
said the old lady fussily
shouted the guard from the platform
said Paul
said the old lady angrily
said the clerk, jerking out the precious
ticket
cried the guard at the same instant
Paul dashed towards the door of the booking-office which led to the
platform; but just as he reached it a gate slammed in his face with a
sharp click, through the bars of it he saw, with hot eyes, the tall,
heavy carriages which had shelter and safety in them jolt heavily past,
till even the red lamp on the last van was quenched in the darkness.

That miserable old woman had shattered his hopes at the very moment of
their fulfilment. It was fate again!

As he stood, fiercely gripping the bars of the gate, he heard Coggs'
hateful voice again
said Mr. Bultitude in a hollow voice
As soon as the gate was opened, Paul went through mechanically with the
others on to the platform, and waited at the bookstall while they
changed the paper. He knew well enough that what had seemed at the time
a stroke of supreme cunning would now only land him in fresh
difficulties, if indeed it did not lead to the detection of his scheme.
But he dared not interfere and prevent them from making the unlucky
exchange. Something seemed to tie his tongue, and in sullen leaden
apathy he resigned himself to whatever might be in store for him.

They passed out again by the booking-office. There was the old lady
still at the pigeon-hole, trying to persuade the much-enduring clerk to
restore a lucky sixpence she had given him by mistake, and was quite
unable to describe. Mr. Bultitude would have given much just then to go
up and shake her into hysterics, or curse her bitterly for the mischief
she had done; but he refrained, either from an innate chivalry, or from
a feeling that such an outburst would be ill-judged.

So, silent and miserable, with slow step and hanging head, he set out
with his gaolers to render himself up once more at his house of
bondage -- a sort of involuntary Regulus, without the oath
observed Chawner,
after they had gone some distance on their homeward way
explained Paul hastily
said Coggs
viciously
said
Coker.

One more flash of distinct inspiration came to Paul's aid in the very
depths of his gloom. It was, in fact, a hazy recollection from English
history of the ruse by which Edward I., when a prince, contrived to
escape from his captors at Hereford Castle
he said excitedly
said Coker emphatically
inquired Chawner suspiciously
said Mr. Bultitude
objected Coggs
said Paul, producing one
said Coker, with an amiable unbelief in
any disinterestedness
put in Coggs
added Chawner
Paul asked anxiously
said Chawner
They drew a line on the path with their feet to mark Paul's starting
point, and went on to the next lamp. After a moment or two of anxious
waiting he heard Coggs shout, all in one breath
and the sound of scampering feet followed immediately.

It was a most exciting and hotly contested race. Paul saw them for one
brief moment in the lamplight. He saw Chawner scudding down the path
like some great camel, and Coker squaring his arms and working them as
if they were wings. Coggs seemed to be last.

He ran a little way himself just to encourage them, but, as the sound of
their feet grew fainter and fainter, he felt that his last desperate
ruse had taken effect, and with a chuckle at his own cleverness, turned
round and ran his fastest in the opposite direction. He felt little or
no interest in the result of the race.

Once more he entered the booking-office and, kneeling on a chair,
consulted the time-board that hung on the wall over the sheaf of texts
and the missionary box.

The next train was not until 7.25. A whole hour and twenty-five minutes
to wait! What was he to do? Where was he to pass the weary time till
then? If he lingered on the platform he would assuredly be recaptured.
His absence could not remain long undiscovered and the station would be
the first place they would search for him.

And yet he dared not wander away from the neighbourhood of the station.
If he kept to the shops and lighted thoroughfares he might be recognised
or traced. If, on the other hand, he went out farther into the country
(which was utterly unknown to him), he had no watch, and it would be
only too easy to lose his way, or miscalculate time and distance in the
darkness.

To miss the next train would be absolutely fatal.

He walked out upon the platform, and on past the refreshment and waiting
rooms, past the weighing machine, the stacked trucks and the lamp-room,
meeting and seen by none -- even the boy at the bookstall was busy with
bread and butter and a mug of tea in a dark corner, and never noticed
him.

He went on to the end of the platform where the planks sloped gently
down to a wilderness of sheds, coaling stages and sidings; he could just
make out the bulky forms of some tarpaulined cattle-vans and open
coal-trucks standing on the lines of metals which gleamed in the scanty
gaslights.

It struck him that one of these vans or trucks would serve his purpose
admirably, if he could only get into it, and very cautiously he picked
his way over the clogging ballast and rails, till he came to a low
narrow strip of platform between two sidings.

He mounted it and went on till he came to the line of trucks and vans
drawn up alongside; the vans seemed all locked, but at the end he found
an empty coal-waggon in which he thought he could manage to conceal
himself and escape pursuit till the longed-for 7.25 train should arrive
to relieve him.

He stepped in and lay down in one corner of it, listening anxiously for
any sound of search, but hearing nothing more than the dismal dirge of
the telegraph wires overhead; he soon grew cold and stiff, for his
enforced attitude was far from comfortable, and there was more coal-dust
in his chosen retreat than he could have wished. Still it was secluded
enough; it was not likely that it would occur to anyone to look for him
there. Ten days ago Mr. Paul Bultitude would have found it hard to
conceive himself lying down in a hard and grimy coal-truck to escape his
son's schoolmaster, but since then he had gone through too much that was
unprecedented and abnormal to see much incongruity in his situation -- it
was all too hideously real to be a nightmare.

But even here he was not allowed to remain undisturbed; after about half
an hour, when he was beginning to feel almost secure, there came a sharp
twanging of wires beneath, and two short strokes of a bell in the
signal-box hard by.

He heard some one from the platform, probably the station-master,
shout
There were steps as if some persons were coming out of a cabin
opposite -- they came nearer and nearer
said a gruff voice, close to Paul's ear
said another, evidently Tommy's
And to Paul's alarm he felt the truck in which he was begin to move
ponderously on the greasy metals, and strike the next with its buffers
with a jarring shock and a jangling of coupling chains.

He could not stand this; unless he revealed himself at once, or managed
to get out of this delusive waggon, the six-whatever-it-was train would
be up and carry him off to Slopsbury, a hundred miles or so farther from
home; they would have time to warn Dick -- he would be expected -- ambushes
laid for him, and his one chance would be gone for ever!

There was a whistle far away on the down line, and that humming
vibration which announces an approaching train: not a moment to lose -- he
was afraid to attempt a leap from the moving waggons, and resolved to
risk all and show himself.

With this intention he got upon his knees, and putting his head above
the dirty bulwark, looked over and said softly
A porter, who had been laboriously employed below, looked up with a
white and scared face, and staggered back several feet; Mr. Bultitude in
a sudden panic ducked again
Paul heard the porter say hoarsely
growled Bill
gasped the other
said the practical
Bill
here he stepped on the
box of the wheel and looked in
And, reaching over, he hauled out the wretched Paul by the scruff of his
neck in a state of utter collapse, and deposited him on the ground
before him
said Tommy, whose relief probably
softened his temper
replied Bill sententiously
Tommy held him fast with a grip of iron, while the other porters coupled
the trucks, and the luggage train lumbered away with its load.

After this the men slouched up and stood round their captive, staring
at him curiously
said Paul
said Bill
said Paul
assented Tommy sympathetically
asked Tommy
said Bill dubiously
urged Paul
said Bill
said Paul, holding it out
said Tommy warmly
He led Paul on to the platform again and opened a sort of cupboard or
closet
he
said
It was perfectly dark and the rags smelt unpleasantly, but Mr. Bultitude
was very glad of this second ark of refuge, even though he did bruise
his legs over the broom-handles; he was gladder still by-and-by, when he
heard a rapid heavy footfall outside, and a voice he knew only too
well, saying
said the station-master
How glad Paul was now he had made no inquiries of the station-master
said the latter
Paul heard Tommy's
voice ask
said the Doctor
said Tommy
slowly
was the answer
said Tommy
said Tommy, to Paul's intense horror, for he was listening,
quaking, to every word of this conversation, which was held just outside
his cupboard door
said the
station-master, who had apparently just turned to go away
When he had gone, the Doctor said rather heatedly
said Tommy, very slowly, and reluctantly
said the Doctor stiffly
said Tommy
said the Doctor
interrupted the Doctor
said
Tommy, with too evident symptoms of yielding in his voice. Paul shook so
in his terror that he knocked down a broom or two with a clatter which
froze his blood
said the Doctor
said Tommy, obviously open to conviction
said the Doctor
said Tommy, unaccountably relieved
If the door of the cupboard had not been locked, Paul would undoubtedly
have burst out and yielded himself up, to escape the humiliation of
being sold like this by a mercenary and treacherous porter. As it was,
he had to wait till the inevitable words should be spoken
went on Tommy, very slowly, as if struggling with the
remnants of a conscience
shouted the Doctor excitedly, when Tommy had come to the end of
his veracious account
The rest was lost in the banging of the fly door and the rumble of
wheels; the terrible man had been got safely off on a wrong scent, and
Paul fell back amongst the lumber in his closet, faint with the suspense
and relief.

Presently he heard Tommy's chuckling whisper through the keyhole
Half an hour went slowly by for Mr. Bultitude in his darkness and
solitude. The platform gradually filled, as he could tell by the tread
of feet, the voices, and the scent of cigars, and at last, welcome
sound, he heard the station bell ringing for the up-train.

It ran in the next minute, shaking the cupboard in which Paul crouched,
till the brushes rattled. There was the usual blind hurry and confusion
outside as it stopped. Paul waited impatiently inside. The time passed,
and still no one came to let him out. He began to grow alarmed. Could
Tommy have forgotten him? Had he been sent away by some evil chance at
the critical moment? Two or three times his excited fancy heard the
fatal whistle sound for departure. Would he be left behind after all?

But the next instant the door was noiselessly unlocked
said honest Tommy
He hoisted Paul up the high footboard to an empty compartment, and shut
the door, leaving him to sink down on the luxurious cushions in
speechless and measureless content. But Tommy had hardly done so before
he reappeared and looked in
he suggested
said Paul; and, too
anxious for safety to thank his preserver, he crawled under the low,
blue-cushioned seat, which left just room enough for him to lie there in
a very cramped and uncomfortable position. Still he need not stay there
after the train had once started, except for five minutes or so at
Dufferton.

Unfortunately he had not been long under the seat before he heard two
loud imperious voices just outside the carriage door
he heard Tommy's voice say outside
The door was opened reluctantly, and two middle-aged men came in
said the first
The other sat heavily down just over Paul, with a comfortable grunt, and
the train started, Paul feeling naturally annoyed by this intrusion, as
it compelled him to remain in seclusion for the whole of the journey
he thought
And he resigned himself to listen to the conversation which
followed
began the first
There is a certain peculiar and uncomfortable suspicion that attacks
most of us at times, which cannot fairly be set down wholly to
self-consciousness or an exaggerated idea of our own importance. I mean
the suspicion that a partly-heard conversation must have ourselves for
its subject. More often than not, of course, it proves utterly
unfounded, but once in a way, like most presentiments, it finds itself
unpleasantly fulfilled.

Mr. Bultitude, though he failed to recognise either of the voices, was
somehow persuaded that the conversation had something to do with
himself, and listened with eager attention
the speaker continued
said the other
Paul started. It was as he had feared, then; they _were_ speaking of
him
Paul groaned. The blow had fallen. Well, it was better to be prepared
and know the worst
said the other
said the other
Paul writhed under his seat with shame. How could he, even if he
succeeded in ousting Dick and getting back his old self, how could he
ever hold up his head again after this?

Why, Dick must be mad. Even a schoolboy would have had more caution when
so much depended on it. But none would suspect the real cause of the
change. These horrible tales were no doubt being circulated everywhere!

The conversation fell back into a less personal channel again after
this; they talked of
of some one who had only been "writing" a
year and was doing seven thousand a week, of losses they had been
and of the uselessness of
and
while at this point the train slackened and stopped -- they had reached
Dufferton.

There was an opening of doors all along the train, and sounds of some
inquiry and answer at each. The voices became audible at length, and, as
he had expected, Paul found that the Doctor, not having discovered him
on the platform, was making a systematic search of the train, evidently
believing that he had managed to slip in somewhere unobserved.

It was a horrible moment when the door of his compartment was flung open
and a stream of ice-cold air rushed under the blue cloth which,
fortunately for Paul, hung down almost to the floor.

Some one held a lantern up outside, and by its rays Paul saw from behind
the hanging the upper half of Dr. Grimstone appear, very pale and
polite, at the doorway. He remained there for some moments without
speaking, carefully examining every corner of the compartment.

The two men on the seats drew their wraps about them and shivered, until
at length one said rather testily
said the Doctor
demanded the man who had described his visit to Mincing Lane
retorted the Doctor
Mr. Bultitude rolled himself up close against the partition at these
awful words
shouted the first gentleman
said the Doctor, quite as angrily
said the guard
And with this he pulled Dr. Grimstone down from the footboard and
mounted it himself; after which he began to rummage about under the
seats with the Doctor's heavy stick.

Every lunge found out some tender part in Mr. Bultitude's person and
caused him exquisite torture; but he clenched his teeth hard to prevent
a sound, while he thought each fresh dig must betray his whereabouts
said the guard at last
he added, in an undertone, after a
lunge which took all the breath out of Paul's body. All was lost now
said one
of the passengers
said the guard at last to the Doctor, as he withdrew
said the first passenger as he leant out of the
window, to the baffled schoolmaster on the platform
shouted the angry Doctor
But the train swept off and, to Paul's joy and thankfulness, soon left
the Doctor, gesticulating and threatening, miles behind it
said one of Paul's
companions, when they were fairly off again
Mr. Goldicutt accordingly explored Paul's ribs with his boot for some
moments, which was very painful
he said at last
For Paul, alarmed at the suggestion about the guard, once more felt
inclined to risk the worst and reveal himself. Begrimed with coal,
smeared with whitewash, and covered with dust and flue, he crawled
slowly out and gazed imploringly up at his fellow-passengers.

After the first shock of surprise they lay back in their seats and
laughed till they cried
they said, when they recovered breath
said Paul
said Paul
faltered poor Paul
said the one who was called Goldicutt, and who was a jovial old
gentleman with a pink face and white whiskers
said Paul nervously
The younger man addressed assented readily enough, for the Doctor had
been so unfortunate as to prejudice them both from the first by his
unjustifiable suspicions, and it is to be feared they had no scruples in
helping to outwit him.

Then they noticed the pitiable state Mr. Bultitude was in, and he had to
give them a fair account of his escape and subsequent adventures, at
which even their sympathy could not restrain delighted shouts of
laughter -- though Paul himself saw little enough in it all to laugh at;
they asked his name, which he thought more prudent, for various reasons,
to give as
and other details, which I am afraid he invented as
he went on, and altogether they reached Kentish Town in a state of high
satisfaction with themselves and their protege.

At Kentish Town there was one more danger to be encountered, for with
the ticket collector there appeared one of the station inspectors
said the latter, peering curiously in
The white-whiskered gentleman seemed a little flustered at this
downright inquiry, but the other was more equal to the occasion
he said, to Paul (whom they had managed
during the journey to brush and scrape into something approaching
respectability
he
asked the inspector.

The man apologised for what he conceived to be a mistake
he
explained
and he went away satisfied.

A very few minutes more and the train rolled in to the terminus, under
the same wide arch beneath which Paul had stood, helpless and
bewildered, a week ago
said Mr. Goldicutt, as he put Paul
into a cab, and pressed half-a-sovereign into his unwilling hand
And the cab rolled away, leaving them standing chuckling on the
platform, and, as Paul found himself plunging once more into the welcome
roar and rattle of London streets, he forgot the difficulties and
dangers that might yet lie before him in the thought that at last he was
beyond the frontier, and, for the first time since he had slipped
through the playground gate, he breathed freely
Paul had been careful, whilst in the hearing of his friends, to give the
cabman a fictitious address, but as soon as he reached the Euston Road,
he stopped the man and ordered him to put him down at the church near
the south end of Westbourne Terrace, for he dared not drive up openly to
his own door.

At last he found himself standing safely on the pavement, looking down
the long line of yellow lamps of his own terrace, only a few hundred
yards from home.

But though his purpose was now within easy reach, his spirits were far
from high; his anxiety had returned with tenfold power; he felt no
eagerness or exultation; on the contrary, the task he had set himself
had never before seemed so hopeless, so insurmountable.

He stood for some time by the railing of the church, which was lighted
up for evening service, listening blankly to the solemn drone of the
organ within, unable to summon up resolution to move from the spot and
present himself to his unsuspecting family.

It was a cold night, with a howling wind, and high in the blue black sky
fleecy clouds were coursing swiftly along; he obliged himself to set out
at last, and walked down the flags towards his house, shivering as much
from nervousness as cold.

There was a dance somewhere in the terrace that evening, a large one; as
far as he could see there were close ranks of carriages with blazing
lamps, and he even fancied he could hear the shouts of the link-boys and
the whistles summoning cabs.

As he came nearer, he had a hideous suspicion, which soon became a
certainty, that the entertainment was at his own house; worse still, it
was of a kind and on a scale calculated to shock and horrify any prudent
householder and father of a family.

The balcony above the portico was positively hung with gaudy Chinese
lanterns, and there were even some strange sticks and shapes up in one
corner that looked suspiciously like fireworks. Fireworks in Westbourne
Terrace! What would the neighbours think or do?

Between the wall which separates the main road from the terrace and the
street front there were no less than four piano-organs, playing, it is
to be feared, by express invitation; and there was the usual crowd of
idlers and loungers standing about by the awning stretched over the
portico, listening to the music and loud laughter which came from the
brilliantly lighted upper rooms.

Paul remembered then, too late, that Barbara in that memorable letter
of hers had mentioned a grand children's party as being in
contemplation. Dick had held his tongue about it that morning; and he
himself had not thought it was to be so soon.

For an instant he felt almost inclined to turn away and give the whole
thing up in sick despair -- even to return to Market Rodwell and brave the
Doctor's anger; for how could he hope to explain matters to his family
and servants, or get the Garuda Stone safely into his hands again before
all these guests, in the whirl and tumult of an evening party?

And yet he dared not, after all, go back to Crichton House -- that was too
terrible an alternative, and he obviously could not roam the world to
any extent, a runaway schoolboy to all appearance, and with less than a
sovereign in his pocket!

After a short struggle, he felt he must make his way in, watch and wait,
and leave the rest to chance. It was his evil fate, after all, that had
led him on to make his escape on this night of all others, and had
allowed him to come through so much, only to be met with these
unforeseen complications just when he might have imagined the worst was
over.

He forced his way through the staring crowd, and went down the steps
into the area; for he naturally shrank from braving the front door, with
its crowd of footmen and hired waiters.

He found the door in the basement open, which was fortunate, and slipped
quietly through the pantry, intending to reach the hall by the kitchen
stairs. But here another check met him. The glass door which led to the
stairs happened to be shut, and he heard voices in the kitchen, which
convinced him that if he wished to escape notice he must wait quietly in
the darkness until the door was opened for him, whenever that might be.

The door from the pantry to the kitchen was partly open, however, and
Mr. Bultitude could not avoid hearing everything that passed there,
although every fresh word added to his uneasiness, until at last he
would have given worlds to escape from his involuntary position of
eavesdropper.

There were only two persons just then in the kitchen: his cook, who,
still in her working dress, was refreshing herself after her labours
over the supper with a journal of some sort, and the housemaid, who, in
neat gala costume, was engaged in fastening a pin more securely in her
white cap
said the cook, looking up
from her paper
said Eliza
And she proceeded to read from her paper
explained Eliza
objected cook doubtfully
said cook, with some pride, when she had finished
said cook almost
bashfully
Eliza having apparently tossed
her head
here Paul shivered with
shame
said Eliza
said the cook sentimentally
said Eliza
cried the cook
said Boaler's
voice
So the cook allowed herself to be persuaded by Boaler, and the two went
up to the hall, and, to Mr. Bultitude's intense relief, forgot to close
the glazed door which cut him off from the staircase.

As he followed them upstairs at a cautious interval, and thought over
what he had just so unwillingly overheard, he felt as one who had just
been subjected to a moral showerbath
he groaned
But more than ever he began to wish that he had stayed in the
playground.

When he reached the hall he stood there for some moments in anxious
deliberation over his best course of proceeding. His main idea was to
lie in wait somewhere for Dick, and try the result of an appeal to his
better feelings to acknowledge his outcast parent and abdicate
gracefully.

If that failed, and there was every reason to expect that it would fail,
he must threaten to denounce him before the whole party. It would cause
a considerable scandal no doubt, and be extremely repugnant to his own
feelings, but still he must do it, or frighten Dick by threatening to do
it, and at all hazards he must contrive during the interview to snatch
or purloin the magic stone; without that he was practically helpless.

He looked round him: the study was piled up with small boys' hats and
coats, and in one corner was a kind of refined bar, where till lately a
trim housemaid had been dispensing coffee and weak lemonade; she might
return at any moment, he would not be safe there.

Nor would the dining-room be more secluded, for in it there was an
elaborate supper being laid out by the waiters which, as far as he could
see through the crack in the door, consisted chiefly of lobsters,
trifle, and pink champagne. He felt a grim joy at the sight, more than
he would suffer for this night's festivities.

As he stole about, with a dismal sense of the unfitness of his sneaking
about his own house in this guilty fashion, he became gradually aware of
the scent of a fine cigar, one of his own special Cabanas. He wondered
who had the impudence to trespass on his cigar-chest; it could hardly be
one of the children.

He traced the scent to a billiard room which he had built out at the
side of the house, which was a corner one, and going down to the door
opened it sharply and walked in.

Comfortably imbedded in the depths of a long well-padded lounging chair,
with a spirit case and two or three bottles of soda water at his elbow,
sat a man who was lazily glancing through the _Field_ with his feet
resting on the mantelpiece, one on each side of the blazing fire. He was
a man of about the middle size, with a face rather bronzed and reddened
by climate, a nose slightly aquiline and higher in colour, quick black
eyes with an uneasy glance in them, bushy black whiskers, more like the
antiquated "Dundreary" type than modern fashion permits, and a wide
flexible mouth.

Paul knew him at once, though he had not seen him for some years; it was
Paradine, his disreputable brother-in-law -- the "Uncle Marmaduke" who, by
importing the mysterious Garuda Stone, had brought all these woes upon
him; he noticed at once that his appearance was unusually prosperous,
and that the braided smoking coat he wore over his evening clothes was
new and handsome
he thought bitterly
He stood by the cue-rack looking at him for
some time, and then he said with a cold ironic dignity that (if he had
known it) came oddly from his boyish lips
Marmaduke put down his cigar and stared
he said at last, with a dubious smile, which
showed a row of very white teeth
said Paul, nearly choked with rage
said Uncle Marmaduke
Mr. Bultitude had always detested the man -- there was an underbred
swagger and familiarity in his manner that made him indescribably
offensive; just now he seemed doubly detestable, and yet Paul by a
strong effort succeeded in controlling his temper.

He could not afford to make enemies just then, and objectionable as the
man was, his astuteness made him a valuable ally; he determined, without
considering the risk of making such a confident, to tell him all and ask
his advice and help
said Paul, with a gulp
cried Marmaduke
said Paul
said Paul hurriedly
Paradine assented with a loud laugh
began Mr. Bultitude in great embarrassment
said his brother-in-law politely
said Paul bitterly
said Paradine calmly
said Paul
protested Paul earnestly
murmured the other
cried Paul
said Uncle
Marmaduke, chuckling at his own powers of repartee
said
Paul slowly
These words had an extraordinary effect upon Uncle Marmaduke; he turned
ashy white, and his quick eyes shifted restlessly as he half rose from
his chair and threw away his unfinished cigar
he said, breathing hard and speaking under his
breath
said Paul, observing the impression
he had made
shrieked Paradine
asked Paul
said the other sullenly
said Paul
And then, in white-hot wrath and indignation, Mr. Bultitude began to
tell the story I have already attempted to sketch here, dwelling
bitterly on Dick's heartless selfishness and cruelty, and piteously on
his own incredible sufferings, while Uncle Marmaduke, lolling back in
his armchair with an attempt (which was soon abandoned) to retain a
smile of amused scepticism on his face, heard him out in complete
silence and with all due gravity.

Indeed, Paul's manner left him no room for further unbelief. His tale,
wild and improbable as it was, was too consistent and elaborate for any
schoolboy to have invented, and, besides, the imposture would have been
so entirely purposeless.

When his brother-in-law had come to the end of his sad history, Paradine
was silent for some time. It was some relief to know that the darkest
secrets of his life had not been ferreted out by a phenomenally sharp
nephew; but the change in the situation was not without its
drawbacks -- it remained to be seen how it might affect himself. He
already saw his reign in Westbourne Terrace threatened with a speedy
determination unless he played his cards well
he said at last, with a swift, keen glance at Paul, who sat
anxiously waiting for his next words
said Paul
said Mr.
Bultitude. He thought his brother-in-law had grown very dull
repeated Paul (he had not thought of that
said Uncle Marmaduke
said Paul, willing to make all reasonable concessions
said the other
said Paul
remarked Paradine drily
said Paul
said Paul hotly
interrupted Paul
Paul groaned
said Paul savagely
said Marmaduke
retorted
Paul
said Mr. Bultitude heavily
Paul, upon this, explained that, as he believed the Stone still retained
its power of granting one wish to any other person who happened to get
hold of it, his idea was to get possession of it somehow from Dick, who
probably would have it about him somewhere, and then pass it on to some
one whom he could trust not to misuse it so basely
said Paradine, smiling
said Paul
said Marmaduke
cried Paul, with involuntary distrust
said Marmaduke, with a touch of feeling
muttered Paul
cried Marmaduke
said Paul
said the other
said Paul reluctantly
objected Paul
said Paradine angrily
Mr. Bultitude had no choice; there was just time to set up an old
folding screen which stood in a corner of the room and slip behind it
before the door opened.

It might not be the highest wisdom to trust everything to his new ally
in this manner; but what else could he do, except stand by in forced
inactivity while the momentous duel was being fought out? Just then, at
all events, he saw no other course
_The Coke's Tale of Gamelyn._


Dick burst open the door of the billiard-room rather suddenly, and then
stood holding on to the handle and smiling down upon his relative in a
happy and affectionate but rather weak manner
he said
observed Uncle Marmaduke; and the fact was certainly
obvious enough
giggled the wretched Dick
said his uncle
Dick went on
murmured Paradine
said Dick, with another giggle
said his uncle
said Dick, with an
offended air
demanded Dick
said his uncle, slightly alarmed at this intimation
said Dick
said Paradine
said Dick, shaking hands with effusion
said Marmaduke
said Dick
Dick sat down heavily on one of the leather benches placed against the
wall
he gasped
said Marmaduke slowly
Dick seemed almost sobered by this shock
he repeated dully
said Dick, beginning to chuckle
said Dick
said Dick
said Paradine, pretending
to hesitate
cried Dick sharply
said Dick, evidently discomposed by such
unexpected penetration, but unable to prevent a little natural
complacency
cried Marmaduke enthusiastically
Paul trembled with anxiety. Would Dick be induced to part with it? If
so, he was saved! But Dick looked at his uncle's outstretched hand, and
wagged his head with tipsy cunning
he said
said Marmaduke
said Dick
said Paradine carelessly
said Dick uneasily
and here he
paused meaningly
asked Dick suspiciously
said Dick
stammered Dick
thought Paul, who had been getting uncomfortable
added Paradine
said Dick, with refreshing candour
thought Paul
said Dick
said Dick helplessly
said Paradine a little impatiently
said Dick feebly
said Dick
There was a veiled defiance in his voice that seemed meant for more than
Dick, and alarmed Mr. Bultitude; however, he tried to calm his
uneasiness and persuade himself that it was part of the plot
cried Dick excitedly
said Dick firmly
asked Dick
as Dick
made a sudden movement towards his white waistcoat
Paul was relieved; of course this was merely an artifice to recover the
Garuda Stone, and Marmaduke was not playing him false after all -- he
waited breathlessly for Dick's answer
said Dick
Dick mumbled something about his being ill, and Barbara wishing him well
again
said his uncle
said Dick obstinately; he was fumbling all the time irresolutely
in his pockets
pleaded Dick, still
fumbling.

At this a sudden suspicion of his brother-in-law's motives for wishing
to get the Stone into his own hands overcame all Paul's prudence. If he
was so clever in deceiving Dick, might he not be cheating _him_, too,
just as completely? He could wait no longer, but burst from behind the
screen and rushed in between the pair
screamed Paradine
said Paul
Dick had risen in horror at the sudden apparition, and staggered back
against the wall, where he stood staring stupidly at his unfortunate
father with fixed and vacant eyes
Dick's lips moved; there really was something like pity and repentance
in his face, muddled and dazed as his general expression was by his
recent over-indulgence, but he said nothing
sneered Paradine
urged Paul
But Dick turned his white face to the rival claimants and said, getting
the words out with difficulty
cried Marmaduke
said Dick, twirling his chain, where part of the cheap
gilt fastening still hung
he added helplessly.

Paul sank down on a chair with a heartbroken groan; a moment ago he had
felt himself very near his goal, he had regained something of his old
influence over Dick, he had actually managed to touch his heart -- and now
it was all in vain!

Paradine's jaw fell; he, too, had had his dreams of doing wonderful
things with the talisman after he had cajoled Dick to part with it.
Whether the restoration of his brother-in-law formed any part of his
programme, it is better, perhaps, not to inquire. His dreams were
scattered now; the Stone might be anywhere, buried in London mud, lying
on railway ballast, or ground to powder by cartwheels. There was little
chance, indeed, that even the most liberal rewards would lead to
discovery. He swore long and comprehensively.

As for Mr. Bultitude, he sat motionless in his chair, staring in dull,
speechless reproach at the conscience-stricken Dick, who stood in the
corner blinking and whimpering with an abject penitence, odd and painful
to see in one of his portly form. The children had now apparently
finished supper, for there were sounds above as of dancing, and
with its rollicking, never-wearying repetition, was
distinctly audible above the din and laughter. Once before, a week ago
that very day, had that heartless piano mocked him with its untimely
gaiety.

But things were not at their worst even yet, for, while they sat like
this, there was a sharp, short peal at the house-bell, followed by loud
and rather angry knocking, for carriages being no longer expected, the
servants and waiters had now closed the front-door, and left the passage
for the supper-room
cried Paul, roused from his apathy; and he rushed
to the window which commanded a side-view of the portico; it might be
only a servant calling for one of the children, but he feared the worst,
and could not rest till he knew it.

It was a rash thing to do, for as he drew the blind, he saw a large
person in a heavy Inverness cloak standing on the steps, and (which was
worse) the person both saw and recognised _him_!

With fascinated horror, Mr. Bultitude saw the Doctor's small grey eyes
fixed angrily on him, and knew that he was hunted down at last.

He turned to the other two with a sort of ghastly composure
he said
Uncle Marmaduke gave a malicious little laugh
he said
said Paul
said Marmaduke airily
said poor Mr. Bultitude, disgusted at this exhibition of
selfishness
But Dick was quite unnerved, he cowered away, almost crying
he stammered
And certainly he was in no condition to convince an angry schoolmaster
of anything whatever, except that he was in a state very unbecoming to
the head of a family.

It was all over; Paul saw that too well, he dashed frantically from the
fatal billiard-room, and in the hall met Boaler preparing to admit the
visitor
he screamed
Boaler, surprised as he naturally was at his young master's
unaccountable appearance and evident panic, nevertheless never moved a
muscle of his face; he was one of those perfectly bred servants, who, if
they chanced to open the door to a ghoul or a skeleton, would merely
inquire
he added compassionately.

Paul lost no time in following this suggestion, but rushed upstairs, two
or three steps at the time, stumbling at every flight, with a hideous
nightmare feeling that some invisible thing behind was trying to trip up
his heels.

He rushed blindly past the conservatory, which was lit up by Chinese
lanterns and crowded with little "Kate Greenaway" maidens crowned with
fantastic headdresses out of the crackers, and comparing presents with
boy-lovers; he upset perspiring waiters with glasses and trays, and
scattered the children sitting on the stairs, as he bounded on in his
reckless flight, leaving crashes of glass behind him.

He had no clear idea of what he meant to do; he thought of barricading
himself in his bedroom and hiding in the wardrobe; he had desperate
notions of getting on to the housetop by means of a step-ladder and the
sky-light above the nursery landing; on one point he was resolved -- he
would not be retaken _alive_!

Never before in this commonplace London world of ours was an unfortunate
householder hunted up his own staircase in this distressing manner; even
his terror did not blind him to the extreme ignominy and injustice of
his position.

And below he heard the bell ringing more and more impatiently, as the
Doctor still remained on the wrong side of the door. In another minute
he must be admitted -- and then!

Who will not sympathise with Mr. Bultitude as he approaches the crisis
of his misfortunes? I protest, for my own part, that as I am compelled
to describe him springing from step to step in wild terror, like a
highly respectable chamois before some Alpine marksman, my own heart
bleeds for him, and I hasten to end my distressing tale, and make the
rest of it as little painful as I may with honesty
MONTR.   The father is victorious.
     BELF.                              Let us haste
              To gratulate his conquest.
     1ST CAPT.                          We to mourn
              The fortune of the son.
                        MASSINGER. _The Unnatural Combat._


Poor Mr. Bultitude, springing wildly upstairs in a last desperate effort
to avoid capture, had now almost reached his goal. Just above him was
the nursery landing, with its little wooden gate, and near it, leaning
against the wall, was a pair of kitchen steps, with which he had hopes
of reaching the roof, or the cistern loft, or some other safe and
inaccessible place. Better a night spent on the slates amongst the
chimney-pots than a bed in that terrible No. 6 Dormitory!

But here, too, fate was against him. He was not more than half-a-dozen
steps from the top, when, to his unspeakable horror, he saw a small form
in a white frock and cardinal-red sash come running out of the nursery,
and begin to descend slowly and cautiously, clinging to the banisters
with one chubby little hand.

It was his youngest son, Roly, and as soon as he saw this, he lost hope
once and for all; he could not escape being recognised, the child would
probably refuse to leave him, and even if he did contrive to get away
from him, it would be hopeless to make Roly understand that he was not
to betray his hiding-place.

So he stopped on the stairs, aghast at this new misfortune, and feeling
himself at the end of all his resources. Roly knew him at once, and
began to dance delightedly up and down on the stair in his little bronze
shoes
he cried
said Paul miserably
said Roly
said Paul, trying to pass (which, as Roly persisted in leaping
joyously from side to side of the narrow stair, was difficult
observed the child.

Mr. Bultitude, in spite of his terror, was too much afraid of hurting
him by brushing roughly past to attempt such a thing, so he tried
diplomacy
said Paul
said Roly
And he slowly unclosed a fat little
fist, and in it Paul saw, with a revulsion of feeling that turned him
dizzy and faint, the priceless talisman itself, the identical Garuda
Stone, with part of the frail gilt ring still attached to it.

The fastening had probably given way during Master Dick's uproarious
revels in the drawing-room, and Roly must have picked it up on the
carpet shortly afterwards
said Roly, insisting that his treasure should
be duly admired
said his father, hoarse and panting
And he tried to snatch it, but Roly closed his fist over it and pouted
he said
Paul's fears rose again; would he be wrecked in port after all? His ear,
unnaturally strained, caught the sound of the front door being opened,
he heard the Doctor's deep voice booming faintly below, then the noise
of persons ascending
he said perfidiously
asked Roly, his face clearing and evidently delighted
with his eccentric brother Dick, who had run all the way home from
school to play games with him on the staircase
cried Paul
demanded Roly, who inherited business
instincts
almost shrieked Paul
he broke off
suddenly
cried Paul, for he too thought he heard
some one
repeated
Roly at last
For the Stone had done its work once more, and this time with happier
results; with a supreme relief and joy, which no one who has read this
book can fail to understand, Mr. Bultitude felt that he actually was his
old self again.

Just when all hope seemed cut off and relief was most unlikely, the
magic spell that had caused him such intolerable misery for one hideous
week was reversed by the hand of his innocent child.

He caught Roly up in his arms and kissed him as he had never been kissed
in his whole life before, at least by his father, and comforting him as
well as he could, for the poor child had naturally received rather a
severe shock, he stepped airily down the staircase, which he had mounted
with such different emotions five minutes before.

On his way he could not resist going into his dressing-room and assuring
himself by a prolonged examination before the cheval-glass that the
Stone had not played him some last piece of jugglery; but he found
everything quite correct; he was the same formal, precise and portly
person, wearing the same morning dress even as on that other Monday
evening, and he went on with greater confidence.

He took care, however, to stop at the first window, when he managed,
after some coaxing, to persuade Roly to give up the Garuda Stone. As
soon as he had it in his hands again, he opened the window wide and
flung the dangerous talisman far out into the darkness. Not till then
did he feel perfectly secure.

He passed the groups of little guests gathered about the conservatory,
and lower down he met Boaler, the nurse, and one or two servants and
waiters, rushing up in a state of great anxiety and flurry; even
Boaler's usual composure seemed shaken
he asked
Paul had almost forgotten Dick in his new happiness; there would be a
heavy score to settle with him; he had the upper hand once more, and
yet, somehow, he did not feel as much righteous wrath and desire for
revenge as he expected to do
he said, waving them back with more benignity than
he thought he had in him
And leaving Roly with the nurse, he went down to the library; not, if
the truth must be told, without a slight degree of nervousness,
unreasonable and unaccountable enough now, but quite beyond his power to
control.

He entered the room, and there, surrounded by piles of ticketed hats and
coats, under the pale light of one gas-burner, he saw the terrible man
before whom he had trembled for the last seven horrible days.

A feeling of self-defence made Paul assume rather more than his old
stiffness as he shook hands
he said
said the
Doctor solemnly
said Paul
And the Doctor paused to watch the effect of
his announcement
cried Paul
thought Paul, thinking of his own
marvellous escape
said Paul, with a
vivid recollection of the exploring stick
said the Doctor passionately
Mr. Bultitude observed, rather ungratefully, that, if this was so, it
was a most improper thing for them to do
said Paul
observed the Doctor after a
pause
agreed Paul, coughing
continued the Doctor
protested Paul with
politeness and (seldom a possible combination) perfect truth
agreed Paul again
said the Doctor, sincerely
enough
said Paul with more surprise, for he had not been
fortunate enough to reap much vicarious benefit from his son's
popularity, as he could not help remembering
said the Doctor
said Paul inwardly, thinking of those
attempted confidences with a shudder
he said aloud
exclaimed the Doctor
said Paul, not being able to resist the suggestion
said the Doctor, taking up the cudgels for his boys, and, to do him
justice, probably with full measure of belief in his statement
said Paul
retorted Paul grimly
said the Doctor
It was the very last thing Paul did want -- he knew them quite well
enough, but it was of no use to say so, and he merely assented politely
said the Doctor
cried Paul, with a well-executed start
said the Doctor
Paul admitted
cried Paul, who saw the conveniences of this theory
said the Doctor
The memory of his wrongs overcame Mr. Bultitude for the moment
he said, between his teeth
The Doctor was more angry than an impartial lover of justice might
perhaps approve of, but then it must be remembered that he had seen
himself completely outwitted and his authority set at nought in a very
humiliating fashion.

However, his excessive wrath cooled Paul's own resentment instead of
inflaming it; it made him reflect that, after all, it was he who had the
best right to be angry
he said, rather coldly
But before he could lay his hand upon the bell the library door opened,
and Uncle Marmaduke made his appearance, dragging with him the unwilling
Dick: the unfortunate boy was effectually sobered now, pale and
trembling and besmirched with coal-dust -- in fact, in very much the same
plight as his ill-used father had been in only three hours ago.

There was a brazen smile of triumph on Mr. Paradine's face as he met
Paul's eyes with a knowing wink, which the latter did not at all
understand.

Such audacity astonished him, for he could hardly believe that Paradine,
after his perfidious conduct in the billiard-room, could have the clumsy
impudence to try to propitiate him now
shouted Paradine
And, letting Dick go, he advanced towards his brother-in-law, still with
the same odd expression of having a secret understanding with him, which
made Paul's blood boil
said Paul to his son
whispered Paradine approvingly
Then Paul understood; his worthy brother-in-law had not been present at
the last transformation and was under a slight misapprehension: he
evidently imagined that he had by this last stroke made himself and Dick
masters of the situation -- it was time to undeceive him
he said
sternly
said Marmaduke, under his breath
said Paul slowly
Marmaduke started back with an oath
he said savagely
said Paul
Paradine went to Dick and shook him angrily
he said,
in a furious aside
muttered Dick
Marmaduke soon collected himself after this unexpected shock; he tried
to shake Paul's hands with an airy geniality
he
said, laughing
said Paul
said Marmaduke
said Paul
said Paradine, without showing much surprise at the failure
of so very forlorn a hope
said
Paul
Paradine saw his game was really played out, and swaggered insolently to
the door
he said
And, having little luggage to impede him, the front door closed upon him
shortly afterwards -- this time for ever.

When he had gone, Dick looked imploringly at his father and then at the
Doctor, who, until Paradine's parting words had lashed him into fury
again, had been examining the engravings on the walls with a studied
delicacy during the recent painful scene, and was now leaning against
the chimney-piece with his arms folded and a sepulchral gloom on his
brow
said Mr. Bultitude, in answer to the look
added the Doctor ominously
said Dick
said his father, but in spite of his indignation, the
broken-down look of the boy, and the memory of his own sensations when
waiting to be caned that morning, moved him to pity. And then Dick had
shown some compunction in the billiard-room: he was not entirely lost to
feeling
he said at last
said Dick, looking rather puzzled, but seeing that he was
expected to agree
the Doctor made an inarticulate protest, while Dick
stared, incredulous
Dick's voice broke at this, and his eyes swam -- he was effectually
conquered
he cried
said Paul
Dr. Grimstone looked deeply offended, but he only said
As for Dick, he ran to his father, and hung gratefully on to his arm
with a remorseful hug, a thing he had never dared to do, or thought of
attempting, in his life till then
he said in a choked voice
Mr. Bultitude too, felt something spring up in his heart which drew him
towards the boy in an altogether novel manner, but no one will say that
either was the worse for it
he said mildly
he added, in a lower
tone
And soon afterwards a cab was called, and Dr. Grimstone prepared to
return to Market Rodwell, with the deserter, by the last train.

As Paul shook hands through the cab window with his prodigal son, he
repeated his warning
he said
And when
Dick opened his hand afterwards, he found two half-sovereigns in it.

So the cab rolled away, and Paul went up to the drawing-room, where,
although he certainly allowed the fireworks on the balcony and in the
garden to languish forgotten on their sticks, he led all the other
revels up to an advanced hour with jovial _abandon_ quite worthy of
Dick, and none of his little guests ever suspected the change of host.

When it was all over, and the sleepy children had driven off, Paul sat
down in an easy chair by the bright fire which sparkled frostily in his
bedroom, to think gratefully over all the events of the day -- events
which were beginning already to take an unreal and fantastic shape.

Bitterly as he had suffered, and in spite of the just anger and thirst
for revenge with which he had returned, I am glad to say he did not
regret the spirit of mildness that had stayed his hand when his hour of
triumph came.

His experiences, unpleasant as they had been, had had their advantages:
they had drawn him and his family closer together.

In his daughter Barbara, as she wished him good-night (knowing nothing,
of course, of the escape), he had suddenly become aware of a girlish
freshness and grace he had never looked for or cared to see before. Roly
after this, too, had a claim upon him he could never wish to forget, and
even with the graceless Dick there was a warmer and more natural feeling
on both sides -- a strange result, no doubt, of such unfilial behaviour,
but so it was.

Mr. Bultitude would never after this consider his family as a set of
troublesome and thankless incumbrances; thanks to Dick's offices during
the interregnum, they would henceforth throw off their reserve and
constraint in their father's presence, and in so doing, open his eyes to
qualities of which he had hitherto been in contented ignorance.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be pleasanter perhaps to take leave of Mr. Bultitude thus, as
he sits by his bedroom fire in the first flush of supreme and unalloyed
content.

But I feel almost bound to point out a fact which few will find any
difficulty in accepting, namely, that, although the wrong had been
retrieved without scandal or exposure, for which Paul could not be too
thankful, there were many consequences which could not but survive it.

Neither father nor son found himself exactly in the same position as
before their exchange of characters.

It took Mr. Bultitude considerable time and trouble to repair all the
damage his son's boyish excesses had wrought both at Westbourne Terrace
and in the City. He found the discipline of his clerks' room and
counting-house sorely relaxed, and his office-boy in particular
attempted a tone towards him of such atrocious familiarity that he was
indignantly dismissed, much to his astonishment, the very first day. And
probably Paul will never quite clear himself of the cloud that hangs
over a man of business who, in the course of however well regulated a
career, is known to have been at least once
And his home, too, was distinctly demoralised: his cook was an artist,
unrivalled at soups and entrees; but he had to get rid of her
notwithstanding.

It was only too evident that she looked upon herself as the prospective
mistress of his household, and he did not feel called upon as a parent
to fulfil any expectations which Dick's youthful cupboard love had
unintentionally excited.

For some time, as fresh proof of Dick's extravagances came home to him,
Paul found it cost him no little effort to restrain a tendency to his
former bitterness and resentment, but he valued the new understanding
between himself and his son too highly to risk losing it again by any
open reproach, and so with each succeeding discovery the victory over
his feelings became easier.

As for Dick, he found the inconveniences at which his father had hinted
anything but imaginary, as will perhaps be easily understood.

It was an unpleasant shock to discover that in one short week his
father had contrived somehow to procure him a lasting unpopularity. He
was obviously looked upon by all, masters and boys, as a confirmed
coward and sneak. And although some of his companions could not fairly
reproach him on the latter score, the imputation was particularly
galling to Dick, who had always treated such practices with sturdy
contempt.

He was sorely tempted at times to right himself by declaring the real
state of the case; but he remembered his promise and his father's
unexpected clemency and his gratitude always kept him silent.

He never quite understood how it was that the whole school seemed to
have an impression that they could kick and assault him generally with
perfect impunity; but a few very unsuccessful experiments convinced them
that this was a popular error on their part.

Although, however, in everything else he did gradually succeed in
recovering all the ground his father had lost him, yet there was one
respect in which, I am sorry to say, he found all his efforts to
retrieve himself hopeless.

His little sweetheart, with the grey eyes and soft brown hair, cruelly
refused to have anything more to do with him. For Dulcie's pride had
been wounded by what she considered his shameless perfidy on that
memorable Saturday by the parallel bars; the last lingering traces of
affection had vanished before Paul's ingratitude on the following
Monday, and she never forgave him.

She did not even give him an opportunity of explaining himself, never by
word or sign up to the last day of the term showing that she was even
aware of his return. What was worse, in her resentment she transferred
her favour to Tipping, who became her humble slave for a too brief
period; after which he was found wanting in polish, and was
ignominiously thrown over for the shy new boy Kiffin, whose head Dick
found a certain melancholy pleasure in punching in consequence.

This was Dick's punishment, and a very real and heavy one he found it.
He is at Harrow now, where he is doing fairly well; but I think there
are moments even yet when Dulcie's charming little face, her pretty
confidences, and her chilling disdain, are remembered with something as
nearly resembling a heartache as a healthy unsentimental boy can allow
himself.

Perhaps, if some day he goes back once more to Crichton House
this time with the mysterious glamour of a great public
school about him, he may yet obtain forgiveness, for she is getting
horribly tired of Kiffin, who, to tell the truth, is something of a
milksop.

As for the Garuda Stone, I really cannot say what has become of it.
Perhaps it was dashed to pieces on the cobble-stones of the stables
behind the terrace, and a good thing too. Perhaps it was not, and is
still in existence, with all its dangerous powers as ready for use as
ever it was; and in that case the best I can wish my readers is, that
they may be mercifully preserved from finding it anywhere, or if they
are unfortunate enough to come upon it, that they may at least be more
careful with it than Mr. Paul Bultitude, by whose melancholy example I
trust they will take timely warning.

And with these very sincere wishes I beg to bid them a reluctant
farewell
</text>
