<text>
DEDICATED
                                  TO
                                LIONEL
MY DEAR LITTLE FRIENDS,

I have again to thank you for the many kind and delightful letters
which I have received from all parts of the world, and I cannot tell
you how happy I am to find that I have succeeded so well in pleasing
you with my stories.

What am I to say to the little boy who wrote, and begged
or
to the other dear little fellow who came to me with tears in his eyes,
to tell me that some superior grown-up person had informed him that
that
I can only regretfully admit that, sooner or later as we grow up to
be men and women, there are bound to be many fond illusions which
are one by one ruthlessly dispelled, and that many of the dreams and
thoughts which, in our younger days, we cherish most dearly, the hard,
matter-of-fact world will always persist in describing as
However, for many of us fortunately, this tiresome time has
not yet arrived, and for the present we will refuse to give up our poor
dear Wallypug--for whom I declare I have as great an affection and
regard, as the most enthusiastic of my young readers.

You will see that in the following story I have described my own
experiences during a recent visit to the remarkable land over which
His Majesty reigns as a "kind of king", and I may tell you that,
amongst all of the extraordinary creatures that I met there, there
was not one who expressed the slightest doubt as to the reality of
what was happening; while for my own part, I should as soon think of
doubting the existence of the fairies themselves, as of the simple,
kind-hearted, little Wallypug.

There now! I hope that I have given quite a clear and lucid
explanation, and one which will prevent you from being made unhappy
by any doubts which may arise in your mind as to the possibility, or
probability, of this story. Please don't forget to write to me again
during the coming year.

  Believing me to be as ever,

  Your affectionate Friend,

  G. E. FARROW.






&lsqb;Adventures in Wallypug-Land&rsqb;


&lsqb;MR. NOBODY
FOR some time past I have been the guest of his Majesty the Wallypug at
his palace in the mysterious kingdom of Why--a country so remarkable
that even now I am only just beginning to get used to my strange
surroundings and stranger neighbors. Imagine, if you can, a place
where all of the animals not only talk, but take an active part in
the government of the land, a place where one is as likely as not
to receive an invitation to an evening party from an ostrich, or is
expected to escort an elderly rhinoceros in to dinner; where it is
quite an everyday occurrence to be called upon by a hen with a brood of
young chickens just as you are sitting down to tea, and be expected to
take a lively interest in her account of how the youngest chick passed
through its latest attack of the
In such a country, the unexpected is always happening, and I am
continually being startled in the streets at being addressed by some
dangerous-looking quadruped, or an impertinent bird, for I must say
that as a class the birds are the most insolent of all the inhabitants
of this strange land. There is in particular one old crow, a most
objectionable personage, and a cockatoo who is really the most violent
and ill-natured bird that I have ever been acquainted with.

She takes a very active interest in Parliamentary affairs, and is a
strong supporter of woman's wrongs
she declares
You will naturally wish to know how I reached this strange country,
and will, no doubt, be surprised when I tell you how the journey was
accomplished.

One morning a few weeks since, I received a letter from his Majesty
the Wallypug asking me to visit him at his palace at Why, in order
to assist him in establishing some of our social customs and methods
of government, which he had so greatly admired during his visit to
England, and which he was desirous of imitating in his own land. A
little packet was enclosed in the letter, bearing the words
I thought
and was proceeding
very carefully to open the packet when a gust of wind rushed in at the
window, and blowing open the paper wrapper, scattered the contents--a
little white powder--in all directions. Some particles flew up into
my eyes, and caused them to smart so violently that I was obliged to
close them for some time till the pain had gone, and when I opened them
again, what do you think? I was no longer in my study at home, but out
on a kind of heath in the brilliant sunshine, and apparently miles from
a house of any kind. A finger-post stood a little way in front of me,
and I could see that three roads met just here. Anxiously I hurried up
to the post to see where I was. One arm pointed
I thought; the other one was
inscribed
which was decidedly a little better, but the
third one said
I thought
I was
puzzling my brain as to what was the best thing to be done, when
I happened to look down the road leading to
and saw a
curious-looking little person running towards me. He had an enormous
head, and apparently his arms and legs were attached to it, for I could
see no trace of a body. He was flourishing something in his hand as he
ran along, and as soon as he came closer I discovered that it was his
card which he handed to me with a polite bow and an extensive smile, as
soon as he got near enough to do so
is what I read.

The little man was still smiling and bowing, so I held out my hand and
said
The little man nodded violently
I continued.

Mr. Nobody looked very wise, and after a few moments' thought smiled
and nodded more violently than ever, and simply pointed his finger at
me
I cried, rather impatiently
The little fellow knitted his brows, and looked very thoughtful, and
finally staring at me sorrowfully, he slowly shook his head
I inquired.

He shook his head again
I said,
half aloud.

Mr. Nobody must have heard me, for he nodded violently, then resuming
his former smile, he bowed again, and turning on his heels ran back in
the direction of Nowhere, stopping every now and then to turn around
and nod and smile and wave his hand
I was just saying, when I heard a
voice above my head calling out
I looked up and saw a large crow perched on the finger-post. He had a
newspaper in one claw, and was gravely regarding me over the tops of
his spectacles
he remarked as soon as he caught my
eye
I began
he interrupted
I answered rather angrily, for my surprise at
hearing him talk was fast giving way to indignation at his insolent
tone and manner
said the bird
he
continued, jerking his head in the direction in which Mr. Nobody had
disappeared
I replied
he asked
said I
I said
remarked the crow contemptuously
I cried, getting very indignant
I was too indignant to answer, and though I should have liked to have
asked the name of the place I was at, I determined not to hold any
further conversation with the insolent bird, and walked away in the
direction of
pursued by the sound of mocking laughter from
the crow
I had not gone far, however, before I perceived a curious kind of
carriage coming towards me. It was a sort of rickshaw, and was drawn
by a kangaroo, who was jerking it along behind him. A large ape sat
inside, hugging a carpet bag, and holding on to the dashboard with his
toes
I heard one of them say
was the reply
called out the Ape, as they passed
I replied rather crossly.

The Kangaroo stopped and stared at me in amazement, and the Ape got out
of the rickshaw and came towards me, looking very indignant
he asked, striking an attitude
I replied
he gasped
I said firmly
remarked the Ape
pityingly
I said unconcernedly
cried the Ape
I asked
said the Ape
he whispered to the Kangaroo, who ran back
to the rickshaw and returned with the carpet bag
continued Oom Hi, taking out a bottle
continued Oom Hi, taking out the bottle
Page 24.
  _Wallypugland
I exclaimed
repeated the Ape, smirking complacently
I
inquired
admitted Oom Hi
I exclaimed, suddenly remembering
inquired Oom Hi
I answered
laughed the Kangaroo
he asked
I replied
corrected Oom Hi
I said, gratefully
said Oom Hi
said the Kangaroo
said the Ape, getting into the vehicle
I expostulated
I declared
demanded the Kangaroo, sulkily
I admitted
said Oom Hi, grasping the handles, and the Kangaroo and
myself having taken our seats we were soon traveling down the road. The
Kangaroo turned out to be a very pleasant companion after all, and when
he found out that I came from England told me all about his brother,
who was a professional boxer, and had been to London and made his
fortune as the Boxing Kangaroo. He was quite delighted when I told him
that I had seen notices of his performance in the papers. We soon came
in sight of a walled city, which Oom Hi, turning around, informed me
was Why. And on reaching the gate he gave the rickshaw in charge of an
old turtle, who came waddling up, and each of the animals taking one of
my arms, I was led in triumph through the city gates to the Wallypug's
palace, several creatures, including a motherly-looking goose and
a little gosling, taking a lively interest in my progress, while a
giraffe in a very high collar craned his neck through a port-hole to
try and get a glimpse of us as we passed under the portcullis
GOOD BYE!&rsqb;

WE soon reached the Wallypug's palace, which stood in a large park in
the center of the city of Why. I had been very interested in noticing
the curious architecture in the streets as we passed along, but was
scarcely prepared to find the palace such a very remarkable place. It
was a long, low, rambling building, built in a most singular style,
with all sorts of curious towers and gables at every point.

Oom Hi and the Kangaroo saw me as far as the entrance, and then took
their departure, saying that they would see me again another day, and I
walked up the stone steps, to what I imagined to be the principal door,
alone. To my great surprise, however, I found that, instead of being
the way in, it was nothing more or less than a huge jam-pot, with a
very large label on it marked
while above it were
the words
I
repeated, vaguely conscious of having heard the question before
laughed a mocking voice at the bottom of the steps, and
looking down I saw an enormous Cockatoo with a Paisley shawl over her
shoulders and walking with the aid of a crutched stick
she cried
I
remarked, crossly, walking down the steps again
said the Cockatoo
This was the second creature that had asked me this question, and
really they threw so much scorn and contempt into the inquiry that one
would imagine that it was a most disgraceful offense to be without a
head covering.

I thought the most dignified thing to do under the circumstances was to
take no further notice of the bird, and was quietly walking away when
the Cockatoo screamed out again
each time louder and louder, till the last inquiry
ended in a perfect shriek
I cried
screamed the Cockatoo irrelevantly
and the wretched bird danced about like a demented fury.

At the sound of all this commotion a number of windows in the upper
stories of the palace were thrown open, and curious heads were popped
out to see what was the matter. Among them and immediately over my
head, I noticed the Doctor-in-Law
he remarked as soon as
he recognized me
I replied
said the Doctor-in-Law, contemptuously
Before I could answer the Cockatoo had screamed out
and the irate little man had replied by throwing a book
at her head out of the palace window
Page
35.
  _Wallypugland._&rsqb;

I was thoroughly disgusted at this behavior and at the strange
reception that I was receiving, and had fully determined to try and
find some way of getting home again, when, happening to turn round, I
saw his Majesty the Wallypug himself running across the lawn towards
me, with both hands stretched out in welcome, and his kind little face
beaming with good nature
he cried
And his
Majesty led me to another entrance, and through a large square hall
hung with tapestry and many quaint pieces of old-fashioned armor, to a
door marked
I noticed, in
passing, that the words
had been partly painted out, and
written above them. Once inside the door, the Wallypug
motioned me to a chair, and said, in a mysterious whisper
I asked
he replied, with a sigh
I exclaimed
said his Majesty, with a puzzled frown
I asked
said the poor Wallypug, sorrowfully
his
Majesty sank his voice to a whisper
I had no time to make further inquiries, for just then the door opened,
and a majestic-looking person sailed into the room, and after looking
me up and down with elevated eyebrows, pointed her finger at me, and
said, in a stern voice
said his Majesty, smiling nervously, and bringing me
forward
interrupted his Majesty's Sister-in-Law severely
I
interposed, feeling rather nettled
SAID THE
SISTER-IN-LAW
remarked the lady grimly
I replied, rather abruptly, I am afraid, but I was
getting quite tired of this continual cross-questioning
I ventured to add
said his Majesty's Sister-in-Law, with a sarcastic
smile
And with a
severe glance at me, the lady folded her arms and stalked out of the
room, leaving his Majesty and myself staring blankly at one another
MY reception at Why had been such a very peculiar one that I had fully
made up my mind to return home at once, but his Majesty the Wallypug
begged me so earnestly to stay with him, at any rate for a few days,
that I determined, out of friendship to him, to put up as best I could
with that extraordinary person the Sister-in-Law, and the rest of the
creatures, and remain, in order to help him if possible to establish
his position at Why on a firmer basis.

So I took possession of a suite of rooms in the west wing of the
palace, near his Majesty's private apartments, and we spent a very
pleasant evening together in my sitting-room, playing draughts till
bedtime, when his Majesty left me to myself, promising that he would
show me around the palace grounds the first thing in the morning.

After he had gone, there being a bright wood fire burning in my
bedroom, I drew a high-backed easy-chair up to the old-fashioned
fireplace, and made myself comfortable for a little while before
retiring for the night.

My bedroom was a large, old-fashioned apartment, with a low ceiling
and curiously carved oak wainscoting, and I watched the firelight
flickering, and casting all sorts of odd shadows in the dark corners,
till I must have fallen asleep, for I remember awaking with a start,
at hearing a crash in the corridor outside my bedroom door. A muttered
exclamation, and a Pelican, carrying a bedroom candlestick marched in,
and carefully fastened the door behind him
he grumbled, sitting down and rubbing one foot against the other, as
though in pain. And I suddenly came to the conclusion that he must have
stumbled over my boots, which I had stood just outside the door, in
order that they might be cleaned for the morning.

The Pelican had not noticed me in my high-backed chair, and, being
rather curious to see what he was up to, I kept perfectly still.

Going over to a clothes press, which stood in one corner of the room,
the bird drew forth a long white night-gown and a nightcap; these he
proceeded solemnly to array himself in, and then, getting up on a
chair, he turned back the bedclothes with his enormous beak, and was
just about to hop into bed, when I thought that it was time for me to
interfere
I called out in a stern voice
Page 42.
  _Wallypugland
screamed the Pelican,
evidently greatly alarmed
I commanded
gasped the bird
I remarked, going up to the Pelican, and shaking him till
his beak rattled again
You see I was getting tired of being
treated so contemptuously by all of these creatures, and was determined
to put a stop to it, somehow
screamed the bird, struggling
to get free, and dabbing at me viciously with his great beak
I maintained
and I pushed the creature towards the door
shouted the Pelican, wrenching himself
from my grasp, and rushing at me with his beak wide open, and his wings
outstretched.

He was an enormous bird, and I had a great struggle with him. We went
banging about the room, knocking over the furniture and making a
terrible racket. At last, however, I managed to get him near the door,
and giving a terrific shove I pushed him outside, and, pulling the door
to, quickly turned the key.

I could hear Mr. Pelican slipping and stumbling about on the highly
polished floor of the corridor outside, and muttering indignantly.
Presently he came to the door, and banging with his beak, he cried
I replied, feeling that I had got the
best of it
yelled the bird
and I could hear him muttering and mumbling in
an angry way as he waddled down the corridor to seek some other
resting-place
I thought, as I
tumbled into bed shortly after this little episode
And pondering over the best method of altering the
extraordinary state of affairs, I dropped off to sleep.

I do not know how long it may have been after this, but a terrific din,
this time in the courtyard below my window, caused me once more to
jump from my bed in alarm. I could hear a most unearthly yelling going
on, a babel of voices, and occasionally a resounding crash as though
something hollow had been violently struck.

&lsqb;HE WAS INTERRUPTED BY A SHOWER OF MISSILES.&rsqb;

Pushing open the latticed windows I saw in the moonlight a little man
dressed in a complete suit of armor with an enormous shield, like a
dishcover, arranged over his head, playing the guitar, and endeavoring
to sing to its accompaniment. He was continually interrupted, however,
by a shower of missiles thrown from all of the windows overlooking the
courtyard, out of which angry heads of animals and other occupants of
the palace were thrust; he was surrounded by a miscellaneous collection
of articles which had evidently been thrown at him, and some of them,
had it not been for his suit of armor and the erection over his head,
would have caused him considerable injury.

&lsqb;THE MUSICIAN TOOK TO HIS HEELS AND FLED.&rsqb;

He did not seem to mind them in the least, though, and continued
singing amid a perfect storm of boots, brushes, and bottles, as though
he was quite accustomed to such treatment: and it was only when an
irate figure, which somehow reminded me of his Majesty's Sister-in-Law,
clad in white garments and flourishing a pair of tongs, appeared in
the courtyard, that he took to his heels and fled, pursued by the
white-robed apparition, till both disappeared beneath an archway at
the farther end of the courtyard. Most of the windows were thereupon
closed, and the disturbed occupants of the palace returned to their
rest. I was just about to close my lattice too, when I caught sight of
a familiar figure at the adjoining window. It was my old friend A.
Fish, Esq
he cried
I replied
I replied, waiving the question
and trying to keep solemn
And A.
Fish, Esq., disappeared from view
I AWOKE very early in the morning, just as it was daylight, and being
unable to get to sleep again amid my strange surroundings, I arose and
crept down-stairs as noiselessly as possible, intending to go for a
long walk before breakfast.

At the bottom of the stairs I came upon a strange-looking white object,
which, upon closer inspection, turned out to be the Pelican, asleep on
the floor.

He was not sleeping as any respectable bird would have done, with his
head tucked under his wing; but was lying stretched out on a rug in the
hall, with his head resting on a cushion. His enormous beak was wide
open, and he was snoring violently, and muttering uneasily in his sleep.

&lsqb;THE PELICAN WAS SNORING VIOLENTLY.&rsqb;

I did not disturb him for fear lest he should make a noise; but
hurrying past him I made my way to the hall door, which after a little
difficulty I succeeded in unfastening. An ancient-looking turtle with a
white apron was busily cleaning the steps, and started violently as I
made my appearance at the door
he muttered
he
called out
I managed to get down without doing much damage, and then remarked
pleasantly
interrupted the Turtle snappishly
I inquired, in surprise
was the reply
I exclaimed
asked the
Turtle
I replied, indignantly
said the Turtle
suspiciously
I interrupted
said the Turtle, handing me some
matches from his waistcoat pocket, and accepting a cigarette in return
I murmured sympathetically
remarked the Turtle
he continued in a
business-like tone
I ejaculated
said the Turtle emphatically
I remarked
said the Turtle pleasantly
and he flopped down on his knees and resumed his
scrubbing.

&lsqb;THE TURTLE FLOPPED DOWN ON HIS KNEES AND RESUMED HIS
SCRUBBING.&rsqb;

There was nothing for me to do but to walk on, and seeing a
quaint-looking old rose garden in the distance, I decided to go over
and explore.

I was walking slowly along the path leading to it, when I heard a
curious clattering noise behind me, and turning around I beheld the
Troubadour, still in his armor, dragging a large standard rosebush
along the ground
he grumbled
I ventured to ask of the little man
was the reply
I
exclaimed in surprise
declared the Troubadour, incredulously
and he shook the rosebush violently
he continued, digging a hole with the point of his mailed
foot, and sticking the rosebush into it
he exclaimed, going up to another one, at the foot of which
were some broken twigs and crumpled leaves
I inquired
was the reply
he explained
I laughed
was the reply
he continued.

Sure enough his Majesty was walking down the path, attended by A. Fish,
Esq., who was wearing a cap and gown and carrying a huge book
cried his Majesty, hurrying towards
me
said A. Fish, Esq., smiling, and offering me a fin
I remarked, politely, if not very truthfully
Page 58.
  _Wallypugland
said A. Fish, Esq., looking very pleased
chimed in the Troubadour, indulgently
said his Majesty, simpering nervously
said A. Fish, Esq
So his Majesty stood up, with his hands folded in front of him, and was
just about to begin, when a bell in a cupola on the top of the palace
began to ring violently
cried the
Wallypug, anxiously grasping my hand and beginning to run towards the
palace.

A. Fish, Esq., also shuffled along behind us as quickly as possible,
taking three or four wriggling steps, and then giving a funny little
hop with his tail, till, puffing and out of breath, we arrived at the
palace just as the bell stopped ringing.

His Majesty hastily rearranged his disordered crown, and led the way
into the dining hall.

A turtle carrying a large dish just inside the door whispered warningly
to the Wallypug as we entered
and hurried away.

A good many creatures were seated at the table which ran down
the center of the room, and at the head of which his Majesty's
Sister-in-Law presided, with a steaming urn before her. The
Doctor-in-Law occupied a seat near by, and I heard him remark
to which the lady replied, grimly
she remarked coldly, motioning me to a vacant seat, and
the Wallypug and A. Fish, Esq., subsided into the two other unoccupied
chairs on the other side of the table
FOR a moment nobody spoke. The Wallypug sat back in a huddled heap in
his chair, looking up into Madame's face with a scared expression. A.
Fish unconcernedly began to eat some steaming porridge from a plate in
front of him--and I sat still and waited events.

A band of musicians in the gallery at the end of the hall were playing
somewhat discordantly, till Madame turned around and called out in an
angry voice
The musicians immediately left off playing with the exception of an
old hippopotamus, playing a brass instrument, who being deaf, and
very near-sighted, had neither heard what had been said nor observed
that the others had stopped. With his eyes fixed on the music stand
in front of him, he kept up a long discordant tootling on his own
account, gravely beating time with his head and one foot.

His Majesty's Sister-in-Law turned around furiously once or twice, and
then seeing that the creature did not leave off, she threw a teacup at
his head, and followed it up with the sugar basin.

The latter hit him, and hastily dropping his instrument, he looked over
the top of his spectacles in surprise.

Perceiving that the others had left off playing, he apparently realized
what had happened, and meekly murmuring
he leaned
forward with one foot up to his ear, to hear what was going on
resumed
Madame, addressing the Wallypug and myself
explained A.
Fish, Esq., mendaciously, with his mouth full of hot porridge
said the good lady sarcastically
said the Doctor-in-Law, sweetly
said the Madame severely
she demanded, glaring at me furiously
I remarked
said the Sister-in-Law, working herself up
into a terrible state of excitement
interposed the Doctor-in-Law,
spitefully
said the Sister-in-Law
she went on
declared A. Fish, Esq., indignantly
said the lady, tauntingly
shouted all the creatures
excitedly
said the Sister-in-Law impressively, getting up and
leaving the table, regardless of the fact that scarcely anybody had as
yet had any breakfast.

The rest of the creatures followed her out of the room.

When they had quite disappeared and the Wallypug, A. Fish, Esq., and
myself were left alone, I thought that we might as well help ourselves
to some breakfast. So I poured out some of the coffee, which we found
excellent, and had just succeeded in persuading his Majesty to try a
little bread and butter, when some crocodiles appeared at the door and
announced
I asked
was the reply
said the poor Wallypug, wringing his hands
said A.
Fish, Esq
So we allowed ourselves to be taken in charge by the crocodiles, and
led to the Public Hall, his Majesty and myself being loaded with chains.

We found the Sister-in-Law and the Doctor-in-Law seated at the judges'
bench when we entered. The Sister-in-Law wore a judge's red robe, and a
long, flowing wig under her usual head-dress, and the Doctor-in-Law was
provided with a slate, pencil, and sponge
SCREAMED THE OSTRICH.&rsqb;

We were conducted to a kind of dock on one side of the bench, and on
the other side appeared what afterwards transpired to be the witness
box. The body of the hall was crowded with animals, craning their necks
to catch a glimpse of us
screamed out a gaily-dressed ostrich, and the trial
began
said the Sister-in-Law, regarding
me contemptuously
There appears to be--" I began
shouted the ostrich, who was evidently an official
I protested
shouted the bird again.

I gave it up and remained silent
remarked
the Sister-in-Law impatiently, and the Turtle, whom I had seen cleaning
the steps in the morning, walked briskly up into the witness-box
was the first question
said the Doctor-in-Law, elevating his eyebrows
said the Turtle
said the Doctor-in-Law
The next witness was the Cockatoo, who scrambled into the box in a
great fluster
she screamed excitedly
And she danced out of the
witness-box again excitedly, muttering
all the way back to her seat
remarked the Doctor-in-Law,
putting down some figures on his slate and counting them up
demanded the Sister-in-Law
was the reply
said the Sister-in-Law
she continued
interrupted the Doctor-in-Law
Then pointing to me tragically, she called out
And I was immediately seized by two of the crocodiles,
preparatory to being taken below
cried Madame, as I was being led away
His Majesty was hustled forward, looking very nervous and white, as he
stood trembling at the bar, while Madame regarded him fiercely
she demanded
stammered his Majesty, though what the poor little fellow had
to be ashamed of was more than I could tell
commented the lady
The first witness was A. Fish, Esq., who coughed importantly as he
stepped up into the box with a jaunty air
asked the Doctor-in-Law, with a supercilious stare. Now, this
was absurd, for, of course, he knew as well as I did what the Fish's
name was; but as I heard him whisper to Madame, the judges in England
always pretend not to know _anything_, and he was doing the same
was the answer
said the
Doctor-in-Law, severely
was indignant reply
said A. Fish, Esq.,
importantly
replied A. Fish, Esq
said A. Fish, Esq., loyally
explained one of the
Crocodiles
said the
Doctor-in-Law, vaguely
said A. Fish, Esq., solemnly
interrupted the
Sister-in-Law, impatiently
insisted A. Fish, Esq
said the Sister-in-Law
she demanded, turning to
the Wallypug
began his Majesty, feebly
shrieked the Sister-in-Law, starting up from her seat
stammered the
Wallypug, nervously
cried the Sister-in-Law furiously
she screamed
and the lady sank back
and gasped hysterically. At this there was a terrible uproar in the
court--the animals stood up on the seats, frantically gesticulating
and crying
while above all could be heard the
Cockatoo screaming
The poor Wallypug threw himself on his knees and called out
imploringly
and I tried in vain to make myself
heard above the uproar
The whole assembly seemed to have taken leave of their senses, and for
a few moments the utmost confusion prevailed. The creatures nearest to
the Wallypug seemed as though they would tear him to pieces in their
fury, and if it had not been for his jailers, the Crocodiles, I am
convinced they would have done him some injury
I managed to shout at last
was
Madame's reply
screamed the
Cockatoo.

And despite our protests the Wallypug and myself were loaded with
chains and marched off by the Crocodiles, his Majesty having first
been robbed of his crown, sceptre, and orb, and other insignia of
Royalty by the Doctor-in-Law, who hadn't a kind word to say for his
old sovereign, and who seemed positively to rejoice at his Majesty's
downfall. I was highly indignant with his heartless ingratitude, but
could do positively nothing, while all of my protests were drowned in
the babel of sounds made by the furious creatures in the body of the
court.

&lsqb;THE WALLYPUG WAS LOADED WITH CHAINS AND MARCHED OFF BY
THE CROCODILES.&rsqb;

After being taken from the dock I was marched off in one direction
and his Majesty in another, and the last view I had of the Wallypug
was that of the poor little fellow being limply dragged along by two
Crocodiles in the direction of the dungeons. I was conducted to the top
room of a tower, in an unfrequented part of the palace, and there left
to my reflections, without any one to speak to for the remainder of the
day.

Towards the evening I heard some shouting at the bottom of the tower,
and looking out as well as I could through the barred window, I saw
the Doctor-in-Law rushing about with a packet of newspapers under one
arm--and heard him calling out, in a loud voice
He was doing a roaring trade, as nearly everybody was buying papers
of him, and excited groups of animals were standing about eagerly
discussing what was evidently the cause of a tremendous sensation in
the kingdom of Why
Page 82.
  _Wallypugland
I STOOD at the barred window for some time, watching the Doctor-in-Law
rushing about with his papers, and then started back as a huge and
disreputable-looking black Crow settled on the stone ledge outside.

I soon recognized him as being the bird who had behaved so
impertinently to me on my first arrival at Why
he exclaimed, squeezing himself through the iron bars, and
staring at me over the tops of his spectacles
I replied
and I laughed heartily at the
recollection of it
remarked the bird
sententiously
I exclaimed, my curiosity
thoroughly aroused
said the Crow solemnly
I cried
said the
Crow, referring to his paper
I cried emphatically
said the Crow
he continued grimly
I exclaimed
said the bird
I remarked
said the Crow rudely
I interrupted
said the bird
contemptuously, turning up his beak
he continued
insinuatingly
I declared
I exclaimed
cried the Crow, wriggling through the bars
And the wretched ill-omened bird flew away laughing derisively.

I could not help feeling rather uncomfortable at the turn which events
had taken, for there was no knowing to what lengths the extraordinary
inhabitants of this remarkable place might go, and if it had really
been decided that the poor Wallypug and myself should be executed on
the morrow, then there was no time to be lost in our efforts to effect
an escape.

I was puzzling over the matter, and wondering what was best to be done,
when I heard a bell ringing at the other end of the apartment
for all the world like the ring of a
telephone call bell.

I ran across the room, and sure enough, there was a telephone fitted up
in the far corner. I hastily put the receiver to my ears, and heard a
squeaky voice inquiring
I called out, for I thought that I might as well be this number
as any other
the voice replied, in an agitated way
I shouted
cried A. Fish, Esq
I asked.--Page 89.
  _Wallypugland
But I rang off and stopped the connection, for I felt sure that the
communication was not intended for me.

Presently there was another ring at the bell, and this time I found
myself connected with the exchange. I knew that it was the exchange,
because they were all quarreling so
I called.

And a moment or two afterwards I heard a well-known voice sounding
through the instrument, and I knew that A. Fish, Esq., was at the other
end
he cried
I asked
he gasped
I dropped the receiver, and flew to the fireplace. Yes, sure enough,
there was the loose stone that A. Fish, Esq., had spoken of, and having
raised it with some difficulty I found a narrow spiral staircase
beneath, leading down into mysterious depths.

I plunged into the darkness, and after walking round and round, and
down and down, for a considerable time I saw a faint light at the
other end. I hurried forward as quickly as I could, and found myself
in a dimly-lighted dungeon. The Wallypug was here alone, and was
busily cramming everything he could lay his hands on into an enormous
carpet-bag
he exclaimed, in a terrible fluster,
when he saw me
he
exclaimed, listening intently
he cried, as sounds were heard in the passage
outside the dungeon door; and touching a spring, an enormous opening
appeared in the wall. His Majesty gave me a sudden push, which sent
me sprawling on to a smooth and very steep incline, and jumping down
himself, we slid rapidly away into the unknown.

&lsqb;WE SLID RAPIDLY DOWN THE SHUTE.&rsqb;

That we were only just in time was evidenced by the cries of rage and
disappointment which pursued us from the dungeon, as the Doctor-in-Law
and the other creatures saw us escape from their clutches, and we could
hear the Cockatoo's shrill cries grow fainter and fainter as we sped
swiftly down the shute towards Ling Choo
DOWN, and down, and down we flew, quicker and quicker each moment.
The shute was as smooth as glass, and grew steeper than ever as we
descended. His Majesty was a little way behind me, but the terrific
rate at which we were traveling made it impossible for us to hold
any conversation. Once or twice I shouted out something to him, but
receiving no reply I soon gave that up. The attitude in which I was
slipping down the shute was a most uncomfortable one, but after a
considerable time I managed to turn over on to my back, and eventually
to twist around, till, at any rate, I was traveling feet foremost,
which was some slight consolation, although naturally I was dreadfully
concerned as to what was to be our fate at the other end of our
journey
I thought
By and by I began to grow very hungry, and then came another dismal
thought. Supposing this extraordinary trip continued for any length of
time, how should we get on for food?

We seemed to be traveling through a kind of tunnel, with very smooth
walls on either side. The Wallypug had said that we were bound for
China, and that that country was on the other side of the world. If so,
then we were in for a pretty long journey. I twisted my head around,
and tried to get a glimpse of his Majesty, who was only a few yards
above me. I could see that he was struggling to get something out
of the carpet-bag, and a few minutes afterwards a little packet of
sandwiches came whizzing past my head. I managed to catch it as it fell
upon the highly-polished boards by stretching out one leg just in time
to prevent it from slipping too far.

&lsqb;I COULD SEE HE WAS STRUGGLING TO GET SOMETHING OUT OF
THE CARPET-BAG.&rsqb;

The sandwiches were very good, and I enjoyed them immensely, and for
a few moments almost forgot our strange surroundings. I was soon,
however, recalled to a sense of our condition by the fact that we
suddenly emerged from the tunnel into broad daylight, the shute
apparently descending the steep sides of a high mountain. As soon as my
eyes became accustomed to the light I noticed, to my great surprise,
that everything in this new country was of a deep rich blue color. The
rocks on the mountain side, the strange-looking trees, and even the
birds--of which I could see several flying about--were all of the same
unusual tint.

I had hardly noticed this fact, as we flew down the side of the
mountain, when I felt myself suddenly pulled up with a jerk, and lifted
high into the air in a most unaccountable manner, and when, after
a moment or two, I recovered from the shock, I found that both the
Wallypug and myself were suspended from a line at the end of two long
fishing-rods which were fastened into a quaint little bridge crossing
the shute.

There we hung, dangling and bobbing about in front of each other in the
most ridiculous way, the dear Wallypug still clinging to his carpet-bag
with one hand, while in the other he clutched a half-eaten sandwich.
I shall never forget his Majesty's surprised expression when he found
himself hanging up the air in this unexpected way
he remarked when at last he found a
voice
I replied
You see
there was evidently something at the end of the lines which had caught
into our clothes, and the hook, or whatever it was, just touched my
shoulder. It did not hurt very much, but just enough to make me feel
uncomfortable
said the Wallypug, looking
about him
Page 98.
  _Wallypugland
said the Wallypug, looking about him
I replied. And truly it was a most remarkable scene.
There was a curious little kind of temple in the distance and a number
of most extraordinary-looking trees; and these, and the grass, and, in
fact, everything that could be seen, were of a bright blue tint
said the Wallypug, pointing to
some remarkable looking ones, with a lot of large blue globes on the
branches instead of leaves
I asked
said his Majesty
I asked, more for the sake of something to say than for
anything else
said his Majesty
he continued speculatively
I asked
said his Majesty.

Before I could reply we heard an excited exclamation from the bank,
and turning around as well as we could we saw two curious little blue
people dressed in flowing blue costumes
they exclaimed, when they saw us, throwing up their hands in a
comical little way
cried the shorter of the two
cried the other, shaking her head
at us
said the Wallypug
said both of the little blue creatures, shaking their heads
simultaneously
THEY EXCLAIMED
explained his Majesty graciously
giggled the little blue people
And they ran off as fast as their
little blue legs would carry them
HIS Majesty and myself stared at each other in dismay. Our position was
growing more and more uncomfortable every moment, and, added to this, I
had a growing impression that the rods to which we were attached would
sooner or later break with our weight
grumbled his Majesty, discontentedly
I rejoined, and was about to add something else when my
attention was attracted to the peculiar behavior of the two blue birds
which we had previously noticed circling about over our heads.

They were wheeling round and round in a most eccentric manner, and as
they drew closer we could see that they were as singular in appearance
as they were in their manner
cried his Majesty in surprise
he shouted, as one of them fluttered past his face. The
birds, however, were not to be got rid of so easily, and, uttering
shrill little cries, they hovered about over his Majesty's head, every
now and then making a vicious dart at the sandwich which he still held
in one hand
he shouted, dropping his
carpet-bag in alarm, and evidently forgetting that I was as incapable
as he was of driving them off
I shouted
His Majesty did so, and we soon had the satisfaction of seeing the
birds squabbling over it on the bank at the side of the shute
SHOUTED HIS MAJESTY
remarked the Wallypug, when they had gone
he cried, as something
suddenly came rolling and bounding down the steep incline
he continued delightedly, as it stopped, caught in the
mouth of the carpet-bag which, attached to the cord of his Majesty's
cloak, dangled down the shute
I had my own opinions on the subject, and held my peace, for I felt
quite sure that it was not through any intentional kindness that the
crown had found its way to its proper owner.

His Majesty very carefully drew up the carpet-bag with its precious
burden, and soon had the intense satisfaction of putting the crown of
Why on his royal head once more
he cried with a little sigh of satisfaction
A LONG LINE OF CREATURES WAS COMING DOWN THE SHUTE
he cried, pointing excitedly towards the top of the shute
It was quite true; attached to a strong rope a long line of creatures
was coming down the shute, the Doctor-in-Law leading the way.

He soon caught sight of us dangling at the end of our rods, and calling
out
in a loud voice, he pulled at the rope as a sign that they
were to stop. This signal was passed along by the others, and the
Cockatoo, who was attached to the rope in a very uncomfortable manner,
gave a loud
as the sudden jerk caused it to tighten about
her neck.

The signal, however, managed somehow to reach those at the other end,
for the procession suddenly came to a standstill
called out the Doctor-in-Law in a severe
voice
The Cockatoo, in a voice choking with rage, and the tightened rope,
shrieked out
while the Rabbit passed the
word along
called out
Madame, glaring fiercely at the Wallypug
shouted his Majesty defiantly, pushing his crown further on
to his head
screamed the good lady, in a terrible passion
called out his Majesty bravely
called out the Doctor-in-Law,
working himself to the edge of the shute, and trying to climb up the
steep sides of the bank.

We watched his endeavors with considerable anxiety, for if he did
succeed in getting on to the bank, it would be an easy matter for him
to get at us, by means of the bridge. The rope, however, by which he
was attached to the Sister-in-Law was not sufficiently long to enable
him to do this, and while he was unfastening it there was a sudden cry
in the direction of the tunnel, and a moment afterwards, screaming,
kicking, and struggling, the whole party rapidly disappeared down the
shute.

The rope had given way
laughed his Majesty, as the huddled mass vanished
in the distance
I tried to imagine what would be the result, and came to the conclusion
that, uncomfortable as I was in my present position, I would rather be
where I was than attached to the rope with the others.

In the meantime the little blue people, their curiosity evidently
aroused by the noise, were hurrying towards us as quickly as possible,
bringing with them a very stout blue person, who was waddling along,
being alternately pushed and pulled by the others in their eagerness to
reach us
cried the little lady whose name we afterwards
found out was Gra-Shus
asked the other, whose name was Mi-Hy.

The little fat man regarded us critically, and said nothing for a
moment or two, then he nodded his head violently
said Mi-Hy, looking up into my face
I replied.

Thereupon, after a great deal of pulling and pushing on the part of
Mi-Hy and Gra-Shus, the rods to which we were attached were swung
around, and the Wallypug and myself alighted, one on either side of the
bank.

His Majesty smoothed his rumpled garments, and, adjusting his crown to
a more becoming angle, positively swaggered across the bridge to where
the three little blue people stood in a line to receive us
said Mi-Hy, pushing the little fat man forward, while
Gra-Shus bashfully hid behind the ample folds of his gorgeous blue
skirts
asked his Majesty graciously
asked Ho-Lor, smilingly
explained the Wallypug
said the little man, putting on a
puzzled expression
said the Wallypug
replied Ho-Lor
I explained
His Majesty swaggered across the bridge to where the
three little blue people stood in a line to receive us.--Page 112.
  _Wallypugland
said Ho-Lor
asked Gra-Shus, looking smilingly
up into my face
I replied
said Mi-Hy, pointing to the Wallypug.

The Wallypug drew himself up with an air of offended dignity
he explained, in a tone of
remonstrance
exclaimed the little blue people, falling down on their knees
and bowing their foreheads to the ground, with their hands stretched
out before them
EXCLAIMED THE BLUE PEOPLE
said his Majesty, kindly
cried the
little people, anxiously
said the Wallypug
The little blue people immediately jumped up and led the way to
where behind a clump of curious blue trees the quaintest little boat
you could possibly imagine was moored against the bank. A blue lake
stretched as far as the eye could reach, and a number of little islands
were dotted about it. On one, a little larger than the rest, a quaint
little blue pagoda could be seen
said Ho-Lor with pride, pointing to the island
with the pagoda on it
said Gra-Shus clapping her hands
It was impossible not to be interested in these quaint and
simple-minded little folk, and after we had all stepped into the little
boat and Mi-Hy had pushed off, his Majesty was soon chatting affably
with Ho-Lor, who explained that he was a mandarin of the Blue Button,
and ninety-eighth-cousin-twice-removed to the Emperor of China.

We soon reached the opposite bank, and his Majesty having been
ceremoniously assisted out of the boat, we ascended a slight hill, and
soon found ourselves before Ho-Lor's residence. To our great surprise
we found that it exactly resembled the building so familiar to all who
have seen a willow-pattern plate.

The tall pillars at the portico, the quaintly-shaped curly roofs, the
little zig-zag fence running along the path, and the curious trees, all
seemed to be old friends--while two little islands, one of which was
connected to the mainland by a quaint bridge, completed the picture.

The two birds, which had by this time finished squabbling about the
sandwich, were billing and cooing over our heads, and the sight of them
seemed suddenly to convince us of the identity of the spot
cried his
Majesty excitedly
admitted Ho-Lor
declared the Wallypug
said Ho-Lor
said Gra-Shus
There was a sound of barking, and a confused clattering of chains,
which told of a dog being unloosed. A moment afterwards there came
bounding out of the house the most extraordinary-looking creature that
I have ever beheld.

It was a very fat and atrociously hideous animal, bearing but slight
resemblance to a dog. Its enormous mouth wore a perpetual grin, and
was decorated at the corners with curious little scallops. It was
bandy-legged, and its hinder legs were much longer than the front ones.
Added to this, the skin on its haunches was wrinkled up into curious
kind of rosettes, while its tail was really all sorts of shapes
Page 119.
  _Wallypugland._&rsqb;

This beautiful creature came careering down the steps, dragging Mi-Hy
with him, and was hailed with delight by Gra-Shus, who cried in
endearing tones
His Majesty clutched my arm nervously, and retreating behind the
carpet-bag, regarded Kis-Smee with a certain amount of suspicion, while
I must confess to having experienced a slight feeling of uneasiness
myself. For if Kis-Smee took it into his ugly head to object to us,
there was no knowing what might be the result.

There was no occasion for alarm, however, for Kis-Smee turned out to
be one of the mildest and best-behaved of dogs.

He made great friends with the Wallypug at once, and clumsily gamboled,
or, as his Majesty explained it
about him in the most
friendly manner
said Ho-Lor
said his Majesty, politely patting the
huge animal a little nervously
remarked Ho-Lor, looking very pleased
nevertheless
I inquired
replied Ho-Lor proudly
I exclaimed
was the reply
cried the Wallypug
asked Ho-Lor
SAID HIS MAJESTY.&rsqb;

His Majesty nodded
asked his Majesty curiously
replied Ho-Lor promptly
We entered the little blue temple and were each presented with a little
blue rug, upon which we sat cross-legged, as we observed that Mi-Hy and
Ho-Lor were doing. Gra-Shus served us in blue cups what tasted like
delicious tea, but which looked exactly like blue ink. No sooner had we
taken a few sips than I noticed that the Wallypug was slowly turning a
light blue color, while at the same moment he stared at me fixedly a
moment, and then exclaimed
I looked at my hands, and found them a rich blue shade
he
continued
I did not at all approve of the change, for although we did not look so
very remarkable in the midst of our strange surroundings, I could not
help thinking what an extraordinary object I should be considered in
London if I ever reached that place again
exclaimed Gra-Shus, clapping her hands
and dancing about excitedly
I replied, in a huff
I
replied
pleaded his Majesty
So blue we remained, and directly after we had finished our tea Mi-Hy
brought around the little blue boat again, and we went for a row on the
ornamental lake.

Somehow or another Kis-Smee was left behind, and although the Wallypug
suggested putting back for him, it was finally decided, however, not to
do so.

&lsqb;WE WENT FOR A ROW ON THE ORNAMENTAL LAKE
said Ho-Lor.

And I confidently hoped that he might do so, for I was as curious as
was the Wallypug to know what the term meant.

Just then we passed a curious little blue island with one tiny house on
it, standing in the midst of some curious trees and strangely-shaped
rocks
suddenly suggested Mi-Hy
cried the Wallypug
inquired Ho-Lor
replied his Majesty, sadly
said Ho-Lor, sympathetically
replied his Majesty
By this time the boat had reached the shore, and we all scrambled out
and assisted Ho-Lor up the steep rocks.

From within the little blue house Mi-Hy brought some rods and lines,
and we began to fish. There was no bait of any kind, but this Ho-Lor
explained was not necessary.

Under the circumstances I was not surprised to find that we did not get
a bite for a considerable time.

At last, however, the Wallypug announced with a delighted shout
and we all ran over to see what it was.

Slowly his Majesty wound up his line, while Mi-Hy hung over the rocks
with a landing net
he shouted
and
diving his hand into the net, he drew out--what do you think? An empty
ink-bottle!

I couldn't help laughing at his Majesty's disappointed face, but Ho-Lor
seemed positively to think that it was a catch worth having
he exclaimed, examining it critically
objected the poor Wallypug
said Mi-Hy
exclaimed the Wallypug
said
Ho-Lor rather huffily
said
his Majesty, apologetically
he said putting away his rod
asked Ho-Lor
exclaimed the Wallypug
said Mi-Hy.

"No! no! I mean
said Ho-Lor, putting his hand to his ear
We hurriedly launched the little boat, and were soon on our way across
the little lake.

The sound of furious barking, mingled with a strangely familiar voice,
came from behind Ho-Lor's house, and hurrying forward we came suddenly
upon a remarkable sight.

Kis-Smee was prancing madly round a gombobble tree to the lower
branches of which A. Fish, Esq., was clinging in an agony of fright.

&lsqb;Kis-Smee was prancing madly round a gombobble tree to
the lower branches of which A. Fish, Esq., was clinging in an agony of
fright.--Page 128.
  _Wallypugland
he shouted, while Kis-Smee
barked and made sudden furious little darts at the fish's tail
cried his Majesty, hurrying forward
anxiously
Kis-Smee left his quarry in the tree, and came bounding up to the
Wallypug, wagging his great clumsy tail delightedly
exclaimed Mi-Hy, staring in amazement at A. Fish, Esq
hastily explained
his Majesty, running to his assistance, for when Kis-Smee had left him,
poor A. Fish, Esq., had dropped off the gombobble tree, and was now
lying exhausted on the blue grass beneath
he cried, waving Kis-Smee off as we
approached
said his Majesty, reassuringly
Indeed, directly the dog discovered that A. Fish, Esq., was a friend of
the Wallypug's, he went up to him, and grinning in an absurd way, held
out a paw to be shaken, which favor, however, was declined by A. Fish,
Esq., who evidently regarded these overtures with a certain amount of
suspicion, and looked greatly relieved when Ho-Lor and Mi-Hy, seeing
that we were engaged with a friend, considerately left us to ourselves,
and took Kis-Smee away with them
cried his Majesty, as we sat down beside the Fish
under the gombobble tree
said A. Fish, Esq., and proceeded to tell us
how that after we had escaped from Why, by means of the shute, there
had been a great commotion in the place, and the Doctor-in-Law was
furious. He declared that we should not slip through his hands in this
way, and had a long conversation with the Sister-in-Law and the others
as to the best way of affecting our capture. Finally they decided to
attach themselves to a long rope, and come down the shute in pursuit
of us.

A. Fish, Esq., made the excuse that his cold was too bad to permit him
to join the party, and waited till they had got a good way down, and
then cut the rope. He thought that this would be the best way of being
of service to us. And so it was, of course, for goodness only knows
where our pursuers were by this time.

A little while after he had cut the rope A. Fish, Esq., came across the
Crow, who told him that he had been informed by two duffer birds (which
was the name of the curious blue birds which we had noticed) that we
were here at Wer-har-wei, and had immediately set about to discover the
best way to get here.

He went in the first place to the station-master at Why, and found him,
as usual, engaged in squabbling with the porter.

They were arguing as to whether a certain signal should be up or down.

The station-master declared that the signal should always be up on the
up line and down on the down line. This the porter would not agree to,
so it was at last decided to put one up and one down and leave them so,
and then the engine-drivers could do as they pleased about going on or
stopping.

&lsqb;AS USUAL THE STATION-MASTER WAS SQUABBLING WITH THE
PORTER.&rsqb;

When they had quite settled this dispute, A. Fish, Esq., had asked them
if there were any trains running between Why and this place, and at
first they had said no; but presently the porter remembered that there
was a certain train which started on some days and went no one knew
where.

No one was ever known to travel by it, and the engine-driver, who was
an old salamander by the name of Mike, was deaf and dumb, and could
neither read nor write, so that they had never been able to find out
from him where his train went to. It had some letters on it which
corresponded with those on the station-master's collar, but no one
had ever been able to discover what they meant. They were popularly
supposed to stand for Weary Waiting and Horribly Wobbly Railway, the
initials on the station-master's collar being W.W.H.W.R., but A.
Fish, Esq., had by a brilliant inspiration come to the conclusion
that they stood for Why and Wer-har-wei Railway, and when the train,
which consisted of only one carriage and the engine, came into the
station, he jumped in, to the intense surprise of Mike, who had never
had a passenger before, and who in his agitation recklessly put two
shovelfuls of coal into the furnace, and, giving a frantic "toot" on
the whistle, started off at full speed
said A. Fish, Esq
We didn't quite understand what he meant by this at the moment, but a
little later on we discovered the reason to our cost.

After an eventful journey, A. Fish, Esq., had arrived at this place,
and had found on alighting from the train that no one was to be seen,
and he was just about to kick at the door of Ho-Lor's house when
Kis-Smee came bounding out. Poor A. Fish, Esq., had been terribly
alarmed, and had made for the nearest tree, and was vainly trying to
climb up into it when we made our appearance
he advised
After talking the matter over for a few minutes we decided that perhaps
it would be the best thing to do, and as the little blue station was
only just at the back of Ho-Lor's house we thought that perhaps by
hurrying we should catch the same train back to Why by which A. Fish,
Esq., had come. So we set out to try and find the little blue people,
to bid them
and thank them for their hospitality.

We found them at the station sitting beside Mike, to whom it appeared
they were in the habit of being very kind on his occasional visits.

They seemed quite sorry to hear that we were leaving them so soon,
and insisted upon making the Wallypug a present of Kis-Smee, and of
stuffing into my pocket an enormous gombobble as a souvenir of my
visit. Then there was just time to look at the "train" before we
started. I must say that of all crazy, ramshackle affairs it was quite
the worst that I had ever seen. To begin with, the wheels were all
sorts of shapes, and not one of them was quite round. There was only
one compartment, and that had no windows in it. And the engine! Well,
it was something like Puffing Billy, only a little worse.

There was no room for Kis-Smee in the carriage, so we were obliged to
chain him up on the roof, evidently much to his disgust.

I must confess to a certain feeling of uneasiness when, having taken
our seats, the engine gave a snort, and puffing out a volume of dense
black smoke and smuts, started us on our journey.

By reason of the odd shape of our wheels and the unevenness of the
rails the carriage pitched and tossed about like a ship at sea, and our
passage over a little wooden viaduct, where on either side the little
blue people stood waving their adieux with quaint little flags, was, I
am convinced, attended with considerable danger.

It was really a dreadful journey. The carriage pitched backward and
forward, and rolled from side to side with every revolution of the
wheels, while poor Kis-Smee, on the top, kept slipping about in the
most painful manner. His Majesty's carpet-bag, which had not been
securely fastened to the top of the carriage, slipped off soon after we
started, and though we rang the bell violently Mike refused to stop,
and it was lost forever
his Majesty gasped between
the jerks which the irregular motion of the train occasioned
The carriage pitched backward and rolled from side to
side.--Page 138.
  _Wallypugland
I remarked in surprise
explained his Majesty
Just then there was a yelp and a howl from Kis-Smee, and looking out
of the window we found that the poor creature had fallen from the roof
and was hanging down by the chain which was attached to the top of the
carriage, and was in momentary danger of being strangled.

We managed, after a prolonged struggle, to haul him in through the
window, and, although we were rather crowded, to find room for him in
the carriage. We had hardly settled down into our places, however,
before the train came to a standstill, and Mike came to the door in a
great state of agitation
he began
I cried
The engine, it appeared, could not be reversed, and, as there was no
chance of getting a supply anywhere else, nothing remained but for his
Majesty and myself to go back with the coal-scuttle and pick some of
the spilt coal up.

Kis-Smee bounded delightedly at our side; but we did not take A. Fish,
Esq., with us, as he complained of a pain in his tail, and we feared
that the long walk might make it worse
he said, as we left him.

But Mike, who was undoing his bundle preparatory to having some dinner,
did not look very enthusiastic over the project, and I am almost
certain I heard him mutter
as we were walking away.

We found the coal, as we expected, beside the line, after we had walked
a little over a mile, and his Majesty and myself picked it up, and
packing it in the scuttle, took turns in carrying it back to the train
again.

We had nearly arrived at the spot where the train was waiting for us,
when his Majesty noticed some curious flowers growing in a little copse
beside the line, and we put down our coal-scuttle and went to gather
them. While we were doing so, however, we heard a wild shout, and
looking up beheld an enormously tall and thin man running towards us,
gesticulating violently.

He was waving some wire and leather dog muzzles in one hand.

&lsqb;THE TALL THIN MAN WAS WAVING SOME MUZZLES
he demanded, pointing to Kis-Smee
cried the Wallypug, indignantly, and patting
Kis-Smee's head
declared the man
I interposed
cried the man, selecting a large muzzle from
the collection which he carried with him
Kis-Smee growled, and grinning more than ever made a dart at the man,
who dropped his muzzles and fled, screaming
at the
top of his voice.

His Majesty and myself, laughing heartily at his discomfiture, hurried
back to the train without meeting with any further adventures.

A. Fish, Esq., and Mike seemed to be rather cool towards each other, I
thought, and I heard afterwards that they had not got on at all well
with the "elocution" lesson--in fact, Mike had absolutely refused to be
instructed in that very necessary art.

Of course we told them of our adventure with the man in the wood, and
Mike explained that he was well known as
and was quite harmless, though rather silly, being under the impression
that all dogs and cats were mad and should be muzzled
said his Majesty, as we took
our seats in the carriage, and the train once more started for Why.

After several hours of bumping and jolting, we were delighted to see
the familiar towers and gables of his Majesty's palace in the distance,
and knew that we had at last arrived at the end of our journey
KIS-SMEE was overjoyed to get out of the train, and eagerly strained at
the chain which his Majesty had affixed to his collar, in his endeavor
to get through the barrier.

The porter, however, who pretended not to know us, demanded our tickets
said his Majesty, smilingly
said the porter
Here was a pretty pickle. We had not thought in the least about
tickets, and in fact had no idea that any would be required
said the porter,
in answer to our explanations
asked the Wallypug
said the porter, yawning
unconcernedly
demanded the Wallypug.
The porter slammed the door to impatiently, and went a little way up
the platform, turning around to call out warningly
THE PORTER DEMANDED OUR TICKETS
cried the Wallypug, rattling and kicking the gate
he shouted.

No one answered for a few minutes, but eventually a door some little
distance up the platform opened, and the old station-master made his
appearance, puffing and blowing, and followed by the porter, carrying a
huge blunderbuss
he demanded
said the Wallypug
demanded the station-master
I began in explanation
interrupted the
station-master
explained the porter officiously
remarked the station-master
said the porter, pointing to his Majesty
objected the station-master
declared his Majesty
said the station-master
incredulously
laughed the porter derisively
said the Wallypug
said the
station-master
he cried, turning to the porter
began his Majesty
said the station-master sharply
he added to the porter, depositing the
blunderbuss beside the barrier, and going back to the other end of the
platform.

Whatever we should have done I cannot think, if just at that moment the
porter's wife had not put her head out of the signal-box and called to
him to
while she
expostulated the station-master
shouted the woman, and the porter meekly left the barrier and
disappeared within the signal-box.

Of course we all rushed through the gate at once, and the
station-master catching sight of Kis-Smee, who had meanwhile slipped
his chain, fled up the platform in dismay.

Kis-Smee, evidently thinking him fair game, started off in pursuit,
and it was not till the station-master had bolted into his office and
locked the door that we could get him to come back to our call.

&lsqb;FLED UP THE PLATFORM IN DISMAY.&rsqb;

So soon as we got into the street we met the Turtle and the Pelican,
walking arm-in-arm, and each smoking a cigarette
exclaimed the Pelican
laughed his Majesty
announced the Pelican
His Majesty explained as briefly as possible the adventures we had
passed through, and then inquired how affairs were progressing at Why
said the Pelican
said his Majesty
exclaimed the Wallypug, anxiously
was the reply
he added, with a sob.

The tears were streaming down the Turtle's nose as he sympathetically
joined in the Pelican's weeping
inquired his Majesty, solicitously
said the Wallypug, sympathetically
I thought this very kind of his Majesty, considering all he had
suffered through the Doctor-in-Law's ingratitude; but the good-hearted
little fellow was full of sympathy, and hurried towards the palace with
all speed
exclaimed a voice as we approached the
entrance to the palace and looking up we beheld the Cockatoo perched
on a window-sill
she exclaimed, peering at us closely
she
screamed
replied A. Fish, Esq., shortly
said the Cockatoo furiously
I interrupted
EXCLAIMED THE COCKATOO
said the Cockatoo
she added insolently
she
ran on
said His Majesty mildly
yelled the bird
said the Wallypug
cried the Cockatoo
she shouted
replied a voice from within
We did not stop to hear any more of her ravings, but passed through and
up into the Doctor-in-Law's old rooms.

We found him looking very weak and ill, but he recognized us all, and
held out his hand to the Wallypug, who told him encouragingly that he
would soon be well again
promised A. Fish,
Esq.

The Doctor-in-Law smiled faintly, and whispered that what was keeping
him back most was the thought of the heavy doctor's bill which he would
have to pay when he got better.

The good-natured little Wallypug made him very happy by promising to
pay this amount for him, and we left the little man looking very much
brighter than when we entered.

&lsqb;We found the Doctor-in-Law looking very weak and ill,
but he recognized us all and held out his hand to the Wallypug.--Page
158.
  _Wallypugland._&rsqb;

The rest of the morning was spent in his Majesty's private apartments,
discussing all sorts of plans for the future, for, as the Wallypug very
properly remarked, now that the Mother-in-Law had gone he should have a
freer hand in the administration of affairs.

A. Fish, Esq., busied himself in preparing an elaborate lecture,
which he said he would deliver in public on the morrow, on the
and which would, he hoped,
clearly explain away the mistake which had been made, in accusing his
Majesty of treason, in connection with his unfortunate recitation of
While we were thus busily engaged there came an impatient
tap-tap-tapping at the door, and on opening it we beheld the Crow
looking more disreputably untidy than ever. He carried a large bundle
of papers and a quill pen
he began importantly
he
cried, turning to the back page of his paper, a copy of which he had
with him
he concluded triumphantly
I remarked
he exclaimed
I replied
I exclaimed in
surprise
said the Crow
he sniffled
said A. Fish, Esq
said the Crow
I took his Majesty aside and pointed out to him that very possibly an
interview with him appearing in the paper would have a good effect on
his people, and he could use it as a means of advertising the reforms
he intended making in the government of the land; and his Majesty
agreeing with me on the point, he seated himself comfortably in his own
particular chair, and the Crow, perching on the back of another, the
interview began
said the Crow, making a great spluttering with his pen,
which was cross-nibbed and broken
said his Majesty
I inquired, curiously
was the prompt reply
he went on, as the pen scattered the ink about in all
directions
Then, having asked the
Wallypug no end of questions, not only about our journey, but on all
sorts of private matters also, the wretched-looking bird gathered up
his papers, which were covered with unintelligible blots and scratches
and scattered in all parts of the room, and, tucking them under his
wing, departed, to have the matter set up in print
SAID THE CROW
THE Crow had scarcely left the room when there was another knock, and
without waiting for a reply the Cockatoo burst into the room in a fine
fluster. She was followed by the Kangaroo and Oom Hi
she blurted out
said the Kangaroo, examining the Wallypug
critically
declared the Cockatoo, pointing at me
derisively
she added, sinking her voice into a hoarse whisper
and so she went on
I exclaimed
exclaimed the Cockatoo excitedly
she shouted, going to the door, and the
two Crocodiles entered and caught hold of me roughly by the collar
shouted the infuriated bird, and
before I could protest I was bundled unceremoniously out of the house
by the Crocodiles, the Kangaroo and Oom Hi following with the Wallypug
spluttered his Majesty
Page
167.
  _Wallypugland
said the Cockatoo, stopping before a large tub of water
which stood on the ground
The Kangaroo rummaged about and discovered a small hard piece of yellow
soap, and Oom Hi brought forth a good sized sponge, and together they
gave the poor little Wallypug such a scrubbing as I should think he had
never had before in all his life
spluttered his Majesty
The poor little fellow was nearly choked.

Oom Hi sponged the soap away and the Cockatoo stared critically at the
poor Wallypug, who stood there with the water streaming from his face
and the tips of his fingers
she declared
said the Kangaroo
and he went up and
whispered something in Oom Hi's ear
cried Oom Hi, and the
Kangaroo rushed off, returning a minute later with a large bottle
marked Vimbril
cried the poor Wallypug
said Oom Hi
soothingly
he continued, holding it out to the Kangaroo, who poured
out some of the nasty looking stuff
shuddered his Majesty, but despite his protests
his face was well rubbed with the fluid
said the Cockatoo
implored the Wallypug
said Oom Hi, who seemed very greatly disappointed at the
non-success of his experiment
he declared
So the poor little Wallypug was led off to the
stocks and securely fastened in, with his hands spread out to dry, and
with strict injunctions not to move till he was told.

&lsqb;HIS MAJESTY IN THE STOCKS.&rsqb;

The last view that I had of his Majesty was of the poor little fellow,
utterly worn out with his exertions, meekly sitting in the stocks and
falling into an uneasy slumber, from which, however, he was frequently
awakened by the bees and flies, which, attracted by the sticky stuff on
his face and hands, flocked around him as though he were a pot of jam
said the Cockatoo, turning her
attention to me next
and despite
my struggles and protests I was ignominiously marched off by the
Crocodiles, who continued to make rude and personal remarks about my
appearance all the way to the dungeon, where it appeared I was to spend
my time till a cage could be prepared for me.

Of course I was terribly indignant at my treatment, but was absolutely
powerless to prevent it And the only thing that I could do when the
Crocodiles had left me alone, after a few parting jeers, was to
consider the best way of effecting my escape.

&lsqb;MADE RUDE AND PERSONAL REMARKS ABOUT MY APPEARANCE.&rsqb;

I was pondering seriously upon this question, when suddenly I
remembered the Gombobble with which the little blue people had
presented me when I left Wer-har-wei. Taking it from my pocket I idly
wondered if it were good to eat or not. It felt soft and looked
something like a huge blue orange or a melon; getting out my penknife
I plunged it in and cut the fruit open. Inside was a white juicy pulp
which looked very tempting, so trusting to its being good to eat I took
a bite.

It was delicious!

I took another bite, and then, happening to look at my hands, I
discovered to my great delight that they were regaining their proper
color
I cried, tackling a third piece; and then
suddenly remembering the poor Wallypug, I carefully cut the Gombobble
in half and put part of it aside for his Majesty, and was just about to
eat another little piece myself, when, happening to look up, I caught
sight of Mr. Nobody from Nowhere, squeezing through the bars of my
dungeon window.

He was as smiling and happy as ever, and made me an elaborate bow with
an elegant flourish, and then looked so very knowing that I felt sure
that he had something important to communicate
I began.

The little fellow bowed and smiled and brought forth a scrap of paper
and a pencil.

On the paper he wrote
and added the
words
I pondered a moment, and then recollected that he would be a capital
medium of communication between the Wallypug and myself
I inquired.

Mr. Nobody nodded vigorously
I ventured.

Mr. Nobody nodded again very energetically, and I could see that he
knew all about it. Moreover he wrote on his paper
and
looked most sympathetic
I inquired.

The little man nodded again, and seemed quite delighted at the prospect.

Handing him the half of the Gombobble which I had reserved for his
Majesty, I said
Mr. Nobody nodded to show that he understood, and, taking the piece
of Gombobble, he squeezed through the bars of my cell, and was soon
running off in the direction of the stocks.

I awaited his return with some anxiety, and was delighted to see when
he did come back, that his face was beaming with delight.

&lsqb;MR. NOBODY NODDED
he wrote hurriedly, clapping his hands and capering about
Mr. Nobody seemed quite to understand and hurried off again. He did not
come back, but about half an hour afterwards there was a noise at the
door of my cell, and after a great deal of fumbling at the lock, Oom Hi
and the Kangaroo entered.

Oom Hi carried a basin and the Kangaroo a bottle of Vimbril, or
Wallypug's Blush, as it was now called.

They looked very amiable, and after some kind remarks about the weather
Oom Hi cleared his throat and said in a sort of apologetic voice:

&lsqb;OOM HI CARRIED A BASIN, AND THE KANGAROO A BOTTLE OF
VIMBRIL
he pleaded
earnestly
I hazarded
said both animals at once, and so after
surreptitiously devouring the remainder of the Gombobble, I permitted
the creatures to smear my face over with their precious rubbish on the
distinct understanding that I should be allowed to have a good wash
afterwards.

The Gombobble acted perfectly, and the animals were delighted when they
saw the result, as they of course put it down to the effect of their
said Oom Hi
So the Kangaroo went off to fetch her
said Oom Hi, gazing affectionately
at his bottle of
I remarked
he went on
he asked anxiously
I admitted
he added, as that bird came bustling into the
cell
she began, giving me a keen glance
and, flinging open the door, the
Cockatoo motioned me out with her crutched stick.

You may be sure I was not long in availing myself of my liberty and
hurrying to the spot where I had last seen his Majesty.

The stocks were empty, but a little further off I found A. Fish, Esq.,
who seemed delighted to see me
he exclaimed
I briefly explained what had happened and inquired if he knew where the
Wallypug was
said A. Fish, Esq
So I thought it best, in order to relieve his Majesty's anxiety, to
seek him there.

It was now getting dusk, and seeing a light in his Majesty's private
apartments, I went up and knocked at the door
cried a voice which I had no difficulty in recognizing, and
on opening the door I found the good little man pacing to and fro in a
state of great agitation
he exclaimed in a relieved voice, and came forward to
welcome me eagerly
I agreed
said his Majesty
So we went together to the Doctor-in-Law's room.

We were surprised to hear several voices talking excitedly within, and
when in reply to a rather impatient
we opened the door,
we were astonished to see the Doctor-in-Law in his dressing-gown and
slippers, in busy consultation with Oom Hi, the Kangaroo, and the
Cockatoo
said the little man
We were astonished to see the Doctor-in-Law in his
dressing-gown and slippers, in busy consultation with Oom-Hi, the
Kangaroo, and the Cockatoo.--Page 184.
  _Wallypugland
I objected
I said
said the Cockatoo crossly
said
the Doctor-in-Law
And so seeing them so busily and enthusiastically engaged in the
business of drawing up the prospectus, we said good-night and retired
to our rooms
THE next morning all was excitement at the palace. The news of our
return had spread abroad, and in the morning copy of the _Daily Whyer_,
which his Majesty found on the breakfast-table when we went down, a
full and, I must say, surprisingly accurate account of the interview
appeared, together with the information that his Majesty would attend
Parliament in state in the afternoon, and that an address from the
throne would be read, in which certain changes in the Government would
be suggested. There was also a paragraph about A. Fish, Esquire's,
lecture upon the
which the editor
advised everybody to try and hear.

His Majesty was in quite a fluster, and we spent several hours in
preparing an elaborate written speech which he was to read out in
the afternoon; and then, having settled this and other matters to
our satisfaction, we took Kis-Smee out for a little walk just before
luncheon.

One of the first persons we met was the Crocodile at the Lodge. He
looked once or twice at his Majesty, as if in doubt, and then at
Kis-Smee.

On seeing the latter his eyes sparkled, and he came up and spoke at
once
he began unceremoniously.

His Majesty bowed, a little distantly I thought
exclaimed the Crocodile, pointing to Kis-Smee
said the Wallypug.

The Crocodile sighed
he remarked
said his Majesty
said the Crocodile, smirking
explained his Majesty hastily
said the Crocodile, looking greatly disappointed
His Majesty told him of the meeting in the afternoon, and the Crocodile
promised to come
he added
asked the Wallypug
said the
Crocodile
asked his Majesty
repeated the Crocodile
We left the Crocodile then and went back to luncheon--after which we
set out for the House of Words.

We found that quite a lot of Creatures were waiting in the lobby for
the doors to open.

There was the Doctor-in-Law, telling a funny story to the Pig,
for which he afterwards made a charge of one pound nineteen and
elevenpence, describing it as _Professional Attendance_--and wording
the bill as follows:

  To One pig, one guinea (guinea-pig),   &pound;1  1  0
one joke,         0  6  8
                                         ----------------
                                         &pound;1 19 11

And to the Mole, who happened to overhear the joke, he made another
charge; but the Mole got out of paying for it on the plea that he
_couldn't see it_; but whether he meant the bill or the joke I could
never find out, Moles are notoriously blind.

Oom-Hi was there and the Turtle too, and A. Fish, Esq., listened,
open-mouthed, while they discussed the state of affairs.

The Cockatoo, irrepressible as ever, held forth on the subject of
Socialism to an interested audience, consisting of the Crocodile
and the Rabbit. While the Crow filled in a few spare moments by
interviewing the Pelican. The Creatures stood aside very politely to
allow his Majesty and myself to enter, Kis-Smee growling ominously at
the Cockatoo, who screamed
as he passed.
This remark of hers gave offense to the Pig also, who demanded to know
if she was referring to him.

&lsqb;Oom-Hi was there and the Turtle too, and A. Fish,
Esq., listened, open-mouthed, while they discussed the state of
affairs.--Page 192.
  _Wallypugland
replied the Cockatoo
said the Pig, who was
evidently of Irish descent
screamed the Cockatoo, which
caused the Pig to laugh and put him in a good temper again
whispered the
Crocodile to me, as we squeezed through the door
I replied
whispered the Crocodile, smacking his
lips
he concluded
mysteriously, winking one eye at me.

I haven't the remotest idea what he meant, and besides I hadn't time to
think about it then, for the meeting was about to commence.

We all found seats, and A. Fish, Esq., being called upon to
open the proceedings, he commenced his learned treatise upon the
What it was all about I haven't the remotest idea, for what with his
extraordinary way of talking, and the continual interruptions of the
animals, who would keep shouting
etc., at all kinds of odd moments, I could not hear
a word that was being said. Moreover, the hall was unaccountably hot
and stuffy, and for some time I had the greatest difficulty in keeping
awake; and at last my head sank down and I dozed off, awaking at
intervals when the Cockatoo was unusually energetic; but at last even
her voice was silenced, and I remember no more till I awoke with a
start, and found myself, to my great dismay, back again in my own study
in London.

I have addressed several letters to
as I am very anxious to know how affairs are going
on there; but I am sorry to say they have always been returned through
the post, marked in blue pencil
RETURNED THROUGH THE POST.&rsqb;




THE BLUE DWARFS:

AN ADVENTURE IN THURINGEN
MARY HOWITT
said
Olive.

"'The blue dwarfs!'" repeated Rex
said Olive rather
snappishly, though, it must be allowed, with some reason
persisted Rex
said Rex regretfully
Olive did not at once answer. Her eyes were fixed on something she
saw passing before the window. It was a very, very little man. He was
not exactly humpbacked, but his figure was somewhat deformed, and he
was so small that but for the sight of his rather wizened old face
one could hardly have believed he was a full-grown man. His eyes were
bright and beady-looking, like those of a good-natured little weasel,
if there be such a thing, and his face lighted up with a smile as he
caught sight of the two, to him, strange-looking children at the open
window of the little village inn
he said, nodding to them; and
replied the
children, as they had learnt to do by this time to everybody they met.
For in these remote villages it would be thought the greatest breach of
courtesy to pass any one without this friendly greeting.

Rex drew a long breath when the dwarf had passed.

"Olive----" he began, but Olive interrupted him
she said eagerly
she went on
consideringly
Rex looked at Olive with a queer expression
he said in rather an awe-struck tone
and his voice dropped and grew still more
solemn
said Olive, and, to do her justice, her rather
sharp answer was meant as much to reassure her little brother as to
express any feeling of impatience. Rex was quite a little fellow, only
eight, and Olive, who was nearly twelve, remembered that when she was
as little as that, she used sometimes to feel frightened about things
which she now couldn't see anything the least frightening in. And she
remembered how once or twice some of her big cousins had laughed at
her, and amused themselves by telling her all sorts of nonsense, which
still seemed terrible to her when she was alone in her room in the dark
at night
she said
said Rex
explained Olive
said Rex
And Rex
looked with concern at his short but sturdy legs.

Olive laughed outright
said Rex, returning to the first subject
said Olive
said Rex
He seemed to have forgotten about the dwarfs, and Olive was rather glad
of it. These two children were traveling with their uncle and aunt in
a rather out-of-the-way part of Germany. Out-of-the-way, that is to
say, to most of the regular summer tourists from other countries,
who prefer going where they are more sure of finding the comforts
and luxuries they are accustomed to at home. But it was by no means
out-of-the-way in the sense of being dull or deserted. It is a very
busy part of the world indeed. You would be amazed if I were to tell
you some of the beautiful things that are made in these bare homely
little German cottages. For all about in the neighborhood there are
great manufactories and warehouses for china and glass, and many other
things; and some parts of the work are done by the people at home in
their own houses. The morning of the day of which I am telling you
had been spent by the children and their friends in visiting a very
large china manufactory, and their heads were full of the pretty and
wonderful things they had seen.

And now they were waiting in the best parlor of the village inn while
their uncle arranged about a carriage to take them all on to the small
town where they were to stay a few days. Their aunt was tired, and was
resting a little on the sofa, and they had planted themselves on the
broad window-sill, and were looking out with amusement at all that
passed
said their aunt,
suddenly looking up
asked Olive, with concern
Instantly Rex's mind went back to the dwarfs
he said seriously
Auntie looked rather puzzled
she said
Olive hastened to explain. Auntie was very much amused
she said
Auntie was quite young--not so very much older than Olive--and very
merry. Olive's rather "grown-up" tones and manners used sometimes to
tempt her to make fun of the little girl, which, to tell the truth,
Olive did not always take quite in good part. And it must for Olive
be allowed, that Auntie did sometimes allow her spirits and love of
fun to run away with her a little too far, just like pretty unruly
ponies, excited by the fresh air and sunshine, who toss their heads and
gallop off. It is great fun at first and very nice to see, but one is
sometimes afraid they may do some mischief on the way--without meaning
it, of course; and, besides, it is not always so easy to pull them up
as it was to start them.

Just as Auntie finished speaking the door opened and their uncle came
in. He was Auntie's elder brother--a good deal older--and very kind
and sensible. At once all thoughts of the dwarfs or what Auntie had
been saying danced out of Rex's curly head. Like a true boy he flew
off to his uncle, besieging him with questions as to what sort of a
carriage they were to go on in--_was_ it an ox-cart; oh, mightn't they
_for once_ go in an ox-cart? and might he--oh, might he sit beside the
driver in front?

His uncle laughed and replied to his questions, but Olive stayed beside
the sofa, staring gravely at her aunt
she said
Olive was twelve. Perhaps you will think her very silly to have
imagined for a moment that her aunt's joke could be anything but a
joke, especially as she had been so sensible about not letting Rex get
anything into his head which could frighten him. But I am not sure that
she was so very silly after all. She had read in her geography about
the Lapps and Finns, the tiny little men of the north, whom one might
very well describe as dwarfs; there might be dwarfs in these strange
Thuringian forests, which were little spoken of in geography books;
Auntie knew more of such things than she did, for she had traveled in
this country before. Then with her own eyes Olive had seen a dwarf, and
though she had said to Rex that he was just an odd dwarf by himself as
it were, not one of a race, how could she tell but what he might be
one of a number of such queer little people? And even the blue dwarfs
themselves--the little figures in the china manufactory--rather went to
prove it than not
thought Olive
All these thoughts were crowding through her mind as she stared up into
Auntie's face and asked solemnly
Auntie's blue eyes sparkled
she said
said he
said Auntie, as with the bundles of shawls and
bags they followed the children's uncle to the door
said he
Olive had pricked up her ears
she said
to herself
She would have liked to
ask her uncle about it, but something in the look of her aunt's eyes
kept her from doing so
thought Olive to herself
They were soon comfortably settled in the carriage, and set off. The
first part of the drive was not particularly interesting; and it was so
hot, though already afternoon, that they were all--Olive especially,
you may be sure--delighted to exchange the open country for the
pleasant shade of a grand pine forest, through which their road now lay
said Olive
he replied rather sleepily, to tell the truth: for
both he and Auntie had been nodding a little, and Rex had once or twice
been fairly asleep. But Olive's imagination was far too hard at work to
let her sleep
she went on, without giving much thought to
poor Uncle's sleepiness
he replied, for he had not heard clearly what she
said, and fancied it was
thought Olive, looking round her with awe and satisfaction
And she was just beginning another
when
her aunt looked up and said lazily
Which offended Olive so much that she relapsed into silence.

Auntie was a truer prophet than she knew; for when they got to the
little hamlet in the wood, where they were to rest, something proved to
be wrong with one of the horse's shoes; _so_ wrong, indeed, that after
a prolonged examination, at which all the inhabitants turned out to
assist, it was decided that the horse must be re-shod before he could
go any farther; and this made it impossible for the party who had come
in the carriage to go any farther either. For the nearest smithy was
two miles off; the horse must be led there and back by the driver,
which would take at least two, if not three, hours. It was now past
six, and they had come barely half way. The driver shook his head, and
said he would not like to go on to the town till morning. The horse
had pricked his foot; it might cause inflammation to drive him farther
without a rest, and the carriage was far too heavy for the other horse
alone, which had suddenly struck the children's uncle as a brilliant
idea
he said
to Auntie, laughing
But Auntie thought it better to give in
she said
And so it was settled greatly to Olive's satisfaction; it would give
her capital opportunities for a dwarf hunt! though as to this she kept
her own counsel.

The landlady of the little post-house where they had stopped was
accustomed to occasional visits of this kind from benighted or
distressed travelers. She thought nothing of turning her two daughters
out of their bedroom, which, it must be owned, was very clean, for
Auntie and Olive, and a second room on the ground-floor was prepared
for Rex and his uncle. She had coffee ready in five minutes, and
promised them a comfortable supper before bedtime. Altogether,
everything seemed very satisfactory, and when they felt a little
refreshed, Auntie proposed a walk
she said
Uncle thought it a good idea, and Rex was ready to start at once; but
Olive looked less pleased
said Auntie
said Olive, which was true in one sense, though
not in another, for she was quite fit for a walk. It struck her that
her excuse was not quite an honest one, so she added
said her uncle
he added, turning to her aunt
So the three set off, leaving Olive to her own devices. She waited till
they were out of sight, then she made her preparations
she said to herself
So she chose out a few one-pfennig copper coins, which are much
smaller than our farthings, and one or two silver pieces, worth about
twopence-halfpenny each, still smaller. Then she put in her pocket half
a slice of the brown bread they had had with their coffee, and arming
herself, more for appearance'-sake than anything else, with her parasol
and the book she had with her in her traveling bag, she set off on her
solitary ramble.

It was still hot--though the forest trees made a pleasant shade. Olive
walked some way, farther and farther, as far as she could make out,
into the heart of the forest, but in her inexperience she took no
sort of care to notice the way she went, or to make for herself any
kind of landmarks. She just wandered on and on, tempted first by some
mysterious little path, and then by another, her mind full of the
idea of the discoveries she was perhaps about to make. Now and then a
squirrel darted across from one tree to another, disappearing among the
branches almost before Olive could be sure she had seen it, or some
wild wood birds, less familiar to the little foreigner, would startle
her with a shrill, strange note. There were here and there lovely
flowers growing among the moss, and more than once she heard the sound
of not far off trickling water. It was all strangely beautiful, and she
would greatly have enjoyed and admired it had not her mind been so full
of the queer fascinating idea of the blue dwarfs.

At last--she had wandered about for some time--Olive began to feel
tired
she thought
So Olive ensconced herself in a comfortable corner, her back against
the root of a tree, which seemed hollowed out on purpose to serve as
an armchair. She thought at first she would read a little, but the
light was already slightly waning, and the tree shadows made it still
fainter. Besides, Olive had plenty to think of--she did not require any
amusement. Queer little noises now and then made themselves heard--once
or twice it really sounded as if small feet were pattering along, or as
if shrill little voices were laughing in the distance; and with each
sound, Olive's heart beat faster with excitement--not with fear
she thought
And then Olive grew a little confused in trying to settle in her mind
how big, or how small rather, it was possible or impossible for a
nation of dwarfs to be. She thought it over till she hardly seemed
sure what she was trying to decide. She kept saying to herself
But what was that that suddenly hit her on the nose! Olive looked up, a
very little inclined to be offended; it is not a pleasant thing to be
hit on the nose; could it be Rex come behind her suddenly, and playing
her a trick? Just as she was thinking this, a second smart tap on the
nose startled her still more, and this time there was no mistake about
it; it came from above, and it was a fir-cone! Had it come of itself?
Somehow the words
kept running in her
head, and she took up the fir-cone in her fingers to examine it, but
quickly dropped it again, for it was as hot as a coal
thought Olive
And hardly had she asked herself the question, when a sudden noise all
round her made her again look up. They were sliding down the branches
of the tree in all directions. At first, to her dazzled eyes, they
seemed a whole army, but as they touched the ground one by one, and
she was able to distinguish them better, she saw that after all there
were not so _very_ many. One, two, three, she began quickly counting
to herself, not aloud, of course--that would not have been polite--one,
two, three, up to twelve, then thirteen, fourteen and so on up to--yes,
there were just twenty-four of them
said Olive to herself
For they were the blue dwarfs, and no mistake! Two of each, as Olive
had seen at once. And immediately they settled themselves in twos--two
squatted on the ground embracing their knees, two strode across a
barrel which they had somehow or other brought with them, two began
turning head-over-heels, two knelt down with their heads and queer
little grinning faces looking over their shoulders, twos and twos of
them in every funny position you could imagine, all arranged on the
mossy ground in front of where Olive sat, and all dressed in the same
bright blue coats as the toy dwarfs at the china manufactory.

Olive sat still and looked at them. Somehow she did not feel surprised
she said to herself
She had not long to wait. In another moment two little blue figures
separated themselves from the crowd, and made their way up to her. But
when they were close to her feet they gave a sudden jump in the air,
and came down, not on their feet, but on their heads! And then again
some of her aunt's words came back to her
thought Olive
Her fears were somewhat relieved when the dwarfs gave another spring
and came down this time in a respectable manner on their feet. Then,
with a good many bows and flourishes, they began a speech
said the first
said the second
finished up the first.

Olive really did not know what to say. She was dreadfully afraid that
it would seem so very rude of her not even to have _tasted_ the cones.
But naturally she had not had the slightest idea that they had been
intended for her to eat
she said
said the first
went on the second.

Then just as Olive supposed they were going to tell her their names,
they stopped short and looked at her
she began again, after waiting a minute or two to
see if they had nothing else to say
they replied promptly, speaking for the first time both
together
said she
for the dwarfs stood staring as if they had not heard her
she repeated for the third time
asked the first
said Olive
said the second; and it really was a relief
to hear him finish a sentence comfortably by himself, only Olive felt
very puzzled by what he said
she said
and then another thought suddenly struck her. How very odd
it was that the dwarf spoke such good English
she said
said the dwarfs, this time again speaking together.

Olive could not see that it was very amusing, but she was afraid of
saying so, for fear it should be rude
went on the first dwarf
waving
his hand in the direction of the others
Olive felt more and more uncomfortable
she said
And then a bright thought struck her
she went
on, drawing the half slice of bread out of her pocket
The two dwarfs came close and examined the piece of bread with the
greatest attention. They pinched and smelt it, and one of them put out
his queer little pointed tongue and licked it
he said, looking up at Olive and rolling about his eyes in
a very queer way
said Olive
The two dwarfs took no notice of what she said, but suddenly turned
round, and standing with their backs to Olive called out shrilly
Immediately all the other dwarfs replied in the same
tone and the same words, and to Olive's great surprise they all began
to move towards her, but without altering their attitudes--those on
the barrel rolled towards her without getting off it; the two who were
hugging their knees continued to hug them, while they came on by means
of jerking themselves; the turning head-over-heels ones span along like
wheels, and so on till the whole assemblage were at her feet. Then she
saw unfolded before her, hanging on the branches of the tree, a large
mantle, just the shape of her aunt's travelling dust-cloak, which she
always spread over Olive in a carriage, only, instead of being drab
or fawn-colored, it was, like the dwarfs' jackets, bright blue. And
without any one telling her, Olive seemed to know of herself that she
was to put it on.

She got up and reached the cloak easily; it seemed to put itself on,
and Olive felt very happy and triumphant as she said to herself
The dwarfs marched--no! one cannot call it marching, for they had about
a dozen different ways of proceeding--they moved on, and Olive in the
middle, her blue cloak floating majestically on her shoulders. No one
spoke a word. It grew darker and darker among the trees, but Olive
did not feel frightened. On they went, till at last she saw twinkling
before them a very small but bright blue light. It looked scarcely
larger than the lamp of a glow-worm, but it shone out very distinct in
the darkness. Immediately they saw it the dwarfs set up a shout, and
as it died away, to Olive's surprise, they began to sing. And what do
you think they sang? Olive at first could hardly believe her ears as
they listened to the thoroughly English song of
And the queerest thing was that they sang it very prettily, and that
it sounded exactly like her aunt's voice! And though they were walking
close beside her, their voices when they left off singing did not so
much seem to stop as to move off, to die away into the distance, which
struck Olive as very odd.

They had now arrived at the trunk of a large tree, half way up which
hung the little lamp--at least Olive supposed it must be a lamp--from
which came the bright blue light
said one of the dwarfs, she did not see which
And thereupon all the dwarfs began climbing
up the tree, swarming about it like a hive of bees, till they got some
way up, when one after another they suddenly disappeared. Olive could
see all they did by the blue light. She was beginning to wonder if she
would be left standing there alone, when a shout made her look up, and
she saw two dwarfs standing on a branch holding a rope ladder, which
they had just thrown down, and making signs to her to mount up by it.
It was quite easy; up went Olive, step by step, and when she reached
the place where the two dwarfs were standing, she saw how it was that
they had all disappeared. The tree trunk was hollow, and there were
steps cut in it like a stair, down which the dwarfs signed to her that
she was to go. She did not need to be twice told, so eager was she to
see what was to come. The stair was rather difficult for her to get
down without falling, for the steps were too small, being intended for
the dwarfs, but Olive managed pretty well, only slipping now and then.
The stair seemed very long, and as she went farther it grew darker,
till at last it was quite dark; by which time, fortunately, however,
she felt herself again on level ground, and after waiting half a minute
a door seemed to open, and she found herself standing outside the tree
stair, with the prettiest sight before her eyes that she had ever seen
or even imagined.

It was the dwarf village! Rows and rows of tiny houses--none of them
more than about twice as high as Olive herself, for that was quite big
enough for a dwarf cottage, each with a sweet little garden in front,
like what one sees in English villages, though the houses themselves
were like Swiss chalets. It was not dark down here, there was a soft
light about as bright as we have it at summer twilight; and besides
this each little house had a twinkling blue light hanging above the
front door, like a sign-post. And at the door of each cottage stood
one of the dwarfs, with a little dwarf wife beside him; only, instead
of blue, each little woman was dressed in brown, so that they were
rather less showy than their husbands. They all began bowing as Olive
appeared, and all the little women curtseying, and Olive seemed to
understand, without being told, that she was to walk up the village
street to see all there was to be seen. So on she marched, her blue
cloak floating about her, so that sometimes it reached the roofs of the
houses on each side at the same time.

Olive felt herself rather clumsy. Her feet, which in general she was
accustomed to consider rather neat, and by no means too large for her
age, seemed such great awkward things. If she had put one of them in at
the window of a dwarf house, it would have knocked everything out of
its place
thought Olive
said a voice beside her
and
Olive, looking down to see who spoke--she had to look down for
everything--caught sight of one of the two dwarfs with whom she had
first spoken. She felt a little ruffled. She did not like this trick
of the dwarf hearing what she thought before she said it
she replied
said the dwarf; but he did not seem the least put out
said Olive to herself. Then
suddenly a thought struck her
she said
interrupted the dwarf
repeated Olive, in astonishment
said the dwarf, in the same calm tone, but without
seeming to take in that Olive meant to reprove him
said Olive to herself
said the dwarf; at which Olive felt so provoked that
she could have stamped her feet with irritation. But as _thinking_
crossly seemed in this country to be quite as bad as _speaking_
crossly, she had to try to swallow down her vexation as well as she
could
she went on quietly
was the answer
said Olive
She put
the last question rather sarcastically, but the sarcasm seemed to be
lost on the little man
he replied
he went on, looking up at Olive with such
a queer expression, and such a queer tone in his voice too, that
Olive got a queer feeling herself, as if he meant more than his words
actually said. Could he mean to hint that _she_ was dreaming? But a
remark from the dwarf distracted her thoughts
he said
And turning round,
Olive saw before her a cottage a good deal larger than the others; in
fact, it was almost high enough for her, with considerable stooping, to
get in at the door. And through the windows she saw a long table neatly
covered with a bright blue table-cloth, and spread with numbers of
tiny plates, and beside each plate a knife and fork and a little blue
glass cup. Two great dishes stood on the table, one at each end. Steam
was rising from each, and a delicious smell came out through the open
windows
thought Olive
said the dwarf
Then he gave a sort of sharp, sudden cry or whistle, and immediately
all the dwarfs of the village appeared as if by magic, and began
hurrying into the house, but as soon as they were in the middle of
the passage they fell back at each side, leaving a clear space in the
middle
said the first dwarf, bowing politely
said Olive
said the dwarf
Olive bent her head cautiously in preparation for passing through the
door, when again the same sharp cry startled her, and lifting her head
suddenly she bumped it against the lintel. The pain of the blow was
rather severe
she exclaimed angrily
But she said no more. The cry was repeated, and
this time it did its work effectually, for Olive awoke. Awoke--was it
waking?--to find herself all in the dark, stiff and cold, and her head
aching with the bump she had given it against the old tree-trunk, while
farther off now she heard the same shrill hoot or cry of some early
astir night-bird, which had sounded before in her dreams
she sobbed
And so for some minutes, half asleep and half awake, Olive
stayed crouching by the tree, which seemed her only protector. But
by degrees, as her senses--her common sense particularly--came back
to her, she began to realize that it was worse than useless to sit
there crying. Dark as it was, she must try to find her way back to
the little inn, where, doubtless, Auntie and the others were in the
greatest distress about her, the thought of which nearly made her burst
out crying again; and poor Olive stumbled up to her feet as best she
could, fortunately not forgetting to feel for her book and parasol
which were lying beside her and slowly and tremblingly made her way
on a few steps, hoping that perhaps if she could manage to get out of
the shadow of the trees it might not be quite so dark farther on. She
was not altogether disappointed. It certainly grew a very little less
black, but that it was a very dark night there was no denying. And,
indeed, though it had not been dark, she would have had the greatest
difficulty in finding her way out of the wood, into which she had so
thoughtlessly penetrated. Terrifying thoughts, too, began to crowd
into her mind, though, as I think I have shown you, she was not at
all a timid child. But a forest on a dark night, and so far away from
everywhere--it was enough to shake her nerves. She hoped and trusted
there was no fear of wolves in summer-time; but bears!--ah! as to bears
there was no telling. Even the hooting cries of the birds which she now
and then again heard in the distance frightened her, and she felt that
a bat flapping against her would send her nearly out of her mind. And
after a while she began to lose heart--it was not quite so dark, but
she had not the very least idea where she was going. She kept bumping
and knocking herself against the trunks; she was evidently not in a
path, but wandering farther and farther among the forest trees. That
was about all she could feel sure of, and after two or three more vain
efforts Olive fairly gave up, and, sinking down on the ground, again
burst into tears
she thought, her fancy wandering
off to all the stories of lost people she had ever heard of. Then she
further reflected that a compass would do her very little good if it
was too dark to see it, and still more as she had not the slightest
idea whether her road lay north, south, east, or west
was her next idea; but then, I am ashamed to say, Olive's
ideas of astronomy were limited. She could have perhaps recognized
the Plow and the Pole star, but she could not remember which way they
pointed. Besides, she did not feel quite sure that in Thuringen one
would see the same stars as in England or Paris; and, after all, as
there were none visible, it was no good puzzling about it, only if they
_had_ been there it would not have seemed so lonely. Suddenly--what
was that in the distance? A light, a tiny light, bobbing in and out
of sight among the trees? Could it be a star come out of its way to
take pity on her? Much more likely a Will-o'-the-wisp; for she did
not stop to reflect that a dry pine forest in summer-time is not one
of Will-o'-the-wisp's favorite playgrounds. It was a light, as to
that there was no doubt, and it was coming nearer. Whether she was
more frightened or glad Olive scarcely knew. Still, almost anything
was better than to sit there to be eaten up by bears, or to die of
starvation; and she eagerly watched the light now steadily approaching
her, till it came near enough for her to see that it was a lantern
carried by some person not high above the ground. A boy perhaps; could
it be--oh, joyful thought!--could it be Rex? But no; even if they
were all looking for her it was not likely that they would let Rex be
running about alone to get lost too. Still, it must _be_ a boy, and
without waiting to think more Olive called out
she cried,
thinking nothing of German or anything but her sore distress.

The lantern moved about undecidedly for a moment or two, then the light
flashed towards her and came still nearer
exclaimed an unfamiliar voice, and Olive, peering
forward, thought for half a second she was again dreaming. He was not,
certainly, dressed in blue, and he was a good deal taller than up to
her knee; but still he was--there was no doubt about it--he was a
dwarf! And another gaze at his queer little figure and bright sparkling
eyes told Olive that it was the very same little man who had smiled at
Rex and her when he saw them leaning out of the inn window that very
afternoon.

She didn't feel frightened; he looked so good-natured and so sorry for
her. And somehow Olive's faith in the possible existence of a nation of
dwarfs had received a shock; she was much more inclined to take things
prosaically. But it was very difficult to explain matters. I think the
dwarf at the first moment was more inclined to take _her_ for something
supernatural than she was now to imagine him a brownie or a gnome.
For she was a pretty little girl, with a mass of golden fair hair and
English blue eyes; and with her hat half fallen off, and her cheeks
flushed, she might have sat for a picture of a fairy who had strayed
from her home.

Her German seemed all to go out of her head. But she managed to
remember the name of the village where they had been that afternoon,
and a sudden recollection seemed to come over the dwarf. He poured out
a flood of words and exclamations, amidst which all that Olive could
understand was the name of the village and the words
which she knew meant "lost" and
Then
he went on to tell that he too was on his way from the same village
to somewhere; that he came by the woods, because it was shorter, and
lifting high his lantern, gave Olive to understand that he could now
show her the way.

So off she set under his guidance, and, only fancy! a walk of not more
than ten minutes brought them to the little inn! Olive's wanderings
and straying had, after all, drawn her very near her friends if she
had known it. Poor Auntie and Rex were running about in front of the
house in great distress. Uncle and the landlord and the coachman had
set off with lanterns, and the landlady was trying to persuade Auntie
that there was not _really_ anything to be afraid of; neither bears,
nor wolves, nor evilly-disposed people about: the little young lady
had, doubtless, fallen asleep in the wood with the heat and fatigue of
the day; which, as you know, was a very good guess, though the landlady
little imagined what queer places and people Olive had been visiting in
her sleep.

The dwarf was a well-known person thereabouts, and a very harmless,
kindly little man. A present of a couple of marks sent him off to
his cottage near by very happy indeed, and when Uncle returned a few
minutes later to see if the wanderer had been heard of, you can imagine
how thankful he was to find her. It was not so _very_ late after all,
not above half-past ten o'clock, but a thunderstorm which came on not
long after explained the unusual darkness of the cloud-covered sky
said
Auntie, with a shudder at the thought of the dangers her darling had
escaped
she resolved, when Olive had confided to her the real motive of her
wanderings in the wood. And Olive, for her part, decided that she would
be content with fairies and dwarfs in books and fancy, without trying
to find them in reality
she said to herself
she
said aloud
said Auntie
Olive explained
she said, smiling.

And Auntie gave her still another kiss.


                               THE END
</text>
