<text>
I HAVE been asked to tell you about the back of the north wind. An old
Greek writer mentions a people who lived there, and were so comfortable
that they could not bear it any longer, and drowned themselves. My
story is not the same as his. I do not think Herodotus had got the right
account of the place. I am going to tell you how it fared with a boy who
went there.

He lived in a low room over a coach-house; and that was not by any means
at the back of the north wind, as his mother very well knew. For one
side of the room was built only of boards, and the boards were so old
that you might run a penknife through into the north wind. And then let
them settle between them which was the sharper! I know that when you
pulled it out again the wind would be after it like a cat after a mouse,
and you would know soon enough you were not at the back of the north
wind. Still, this room was not very cold, except when the north wind
blew stronger than usual: the room I have to do with now was always
cold, except in summer, when the sun took the matter into his own hands.
Indeed, I am not sure whether I ought to call it a room at all; for it
was just a loft where they kept hay and straw and oats for the horses.

And when little Diamond -- but stop: I must tell you that his father, who
was a coachman, had named him after a favourite horse, and his mother
had had no objection:-- when little Diamond, then, lay there in bed, he
could hear the horses under him munching away in the dark, or moving
sleepily in their dreams. For Diamond's father had built him a bed in
the loft with boards all round it, because they had so little room in
their own end over the coach-house; and Diamond's father put old Diamond
in the stall under the bed, because he was a quiet horse, and did not
go to sleep standing, but lay down like a reasonable creature. But,
although he was a surprisingly reasonable creature, yet, when young
Diamond woke in the middle of the night, and felt the bed shaking in the
blasts of the north wind, he could not help wondering whether, if the
wind should blow the house down, and he were to fall through into
the manger, old Diamond mightn't eat him up before he knew him in his
night-gown. And although old Diamond was very quiet all night long, yet
when he woke he got up like an earthquake, and then young Diamond knew
what o'clock it was, or at least what was to be done next, which was -- to
go to sleep again as fast as he could.

There was hay at his feet and hay at his head, piled up in great trusses
to the very roof. Indeed it was sometimes only through a little lane
with several turnings, which looked as if it had been sawn out for him,
that he could reach his bed at all. For the stock of hay was, of course,
always in a state either of slow ebb or of sudden flow. Sometimes the
whole space of the loft, with the little panes in the roof for the
stars to look in, would lie open before his open eyes as he lay in bed;
sometimes a yellow wall of sweet-smelling fibres closed up his view at
the distance of half a yard. Sometimes, when his mother had undressed
him in her room, and told him to trot to bed by himself, he would
creep into the heart of the hay, and lie there thinking how cold it was
outside in the wind, and how warm it was inside there in his bed, and
how he could go to it when he pleased, only he wouldn't just yet; he
would get a little colder first. And ever as he grew colder, his bed
would grow warmer, till at last he would scramble out of the hay, shoot
like an arrow into his bed, cover himself up, and snuggle down, thinking
what a happy boy he was. He had not the least idea that the wind got in
at a chink in the wall, and blew about him all night. For the back of
his bed was only of boards an inch thick, and on the other side of them
was the north wind.

Now, as I have already said, these boards were soft and crumbly. To be
sure, they were tarred on the outside, yet in many places they were more
like tinder than timber. Hence it happened that the soft part having
worn away from about it, little Diamond found one night, after he lay
down, that a knot had come out of one of them, and that the wind was
blowing in upon him in a cold and rather imperious fashion. Now he had
no fancy for leaving things wrong that might be set right; so he jumped
out of bed again, got a little strike of hay, twisted it up, folded it
in the middle, and, having thus made it into a cork, stuck it into the
hole in the wall. But the wind began to blow loud and angrily, and, as
Diamond was falling asleep, out blew his cork and hit him on the
nose, just hard enough to wake him up quite, and let him hear the wind
whistling shrill in the hole. He searched for his hay-cork, found it,
stuck it in harder, and was just dropping off once more, when, pop! with
an angry whistle behind it, the cork struck him again, this time on the
cheek. Up he rose once more, made a fresh stopple of hay, and corked the
hole severely. But he was hardly down again before -- pop! it came on his
forehead. He gave it up, drew the clothes above his head, and was soon
fast asleep.

Although the next day was very stormy, Diamond forgot all about the
hole, for he was busy making a cave by the side of his mother's fire
with a broken chair, a three-legged stool, and a blanket, and then
sitting in it. His mother, however, discovered it, and pasted a bit of
brown paper over it, so that, when Diamond had snuggled down the next
night, he had no occasion to think of it.

Presently, however, he lifted his head and listened. Who could that be
talking to him? The wind was rising again, and getting very loud, and
full of rushes and whistles. He was sure some one was talking -- and very
near him, too, it was. But he was not frightened, for he had not yet
learned how to be; so he sat up and hearkened. At last the voice, which,
though quite gentle, sounded a little angry, appeared to come from the
back of the bed. He crept nearer to it, and laid his ear against the
wall. Then he heard nothing but the wind, which sounded very loud
indeed. The moment, however, that he moved his head from the wall, he
heard the voice again, close to his ear. He felt about with his hand,
and came upon the piece of paper his mother had pasted over the
hole. Against this he laid his ear, and then he heard the voice quite
distinctly. There was, in fact, a little corner of the paper loose, and
through that, as from a mouth in the wall, the voice came
asked Diamond
The voice laughed
it said
said Diamond
said the voice
said Diamond
said Diamond, and thought a minute
said the voice, rather sadly
said Diamond, thoughtfully
said Diamond, and feeling
with his little sharp nails, he got hold of the open edge of the paper
and tore it off at once.

In came a long whistling spear of cold, and struck his little naked
chest. He scrambled and tumbled in under the bedclothes, and covered
himself up: there was no paper now between him and the voice, and he
felt a little -- not frightened exactly -- I told you he had not learned
that yet -- but rather queer; for what a strange person this North Wind
must be that lived in the great house
thought Diamond -- and made windows into people's beds! But the voice
began again; and he could hear it quite plainly, even with his head
under the bed-clothes. It was a still more gentle voice now, although
six times as large and loud as it had been, and he thought it sounded a
little like his mother's
it asked
answered Diamond, under the bed-clothes
returned its owner
said the voice
retorted Diamond, a little rudely
said Diamond.

And indeed he did not. For to know a person's name is not always to know
the person's self
persisted the boy, vexed that it should
not give satisfaction
said the voice
A beautiful laugh, large but very soft and musical, sounded somewhere
beside him, but Diamond kept his head under the clothes
said the voice
insisted Diamond
said the voice
said Diamond, very nearly crying, for he did
not like to be scolded, even when he deserved it
said Diamond
said the voice, just a
little angrily
answered Diamond, half peevish, half frightened.

The instant he said the word, a tremendous blast of wind crashed in a
board of the wall, and swept the clothes off Diamond. He started up in
terror. Leaning over him was the large, beautiful, pale face of a woman.
Her dark eyes looked a little angry, for they had just begun to flash;
but a quivering in her sweet upper lip made her look as if she were
going to cry. What was the most strange was that away from her head
streamed out her black hair in every direction, so that the darkness in
the hay-loft looked as if it were made of her, hair but as Diamond gazed
at her in speechless amazement, mingled with confidence -- for the boy was
entranced with her mighty beauty -- her hair began to gather itself out
of the darkness, and fell down all about her again, till her face looked
out of the midst of it like a moon out of a cloud. From her eyes came
all the light by which Diamond saw her face and her, hair; and that was
all he did see of her yet. The wind was over and gone
said the lady
answered Diamond, holding out both his arms
he added, dropping them
said Diamond
If Diamond had been a little older, and had supposed himself a good deal
wiser, he would have thought the lady was joking. But he was not older,
and did not fancy himself wiser, and therefore understood her well
enough. Again he stretched out his arms. The lady's face drew back a
little
she said
said Diamond, only a little ruefully
said the North Wind
said the lady
answered Diamond, eagerly
said Diamond
said little Diamond
said North Wind, and disappeared behind the mountain
of hay.

Diamond crept out of bed and followed her
WHEN Diamond got round the corner of the hay, for a moment he hesitated.
The stair by which he would naturally have gone down to the door was
at the other side of the loft, and looked very black indeed; for it was
full of North Wind's hair, as she descended before him. And just beside
him was the ladder going straight down into the stable, up which his
father always came to fetch the hay for Diamond's dinner. Through the
opening in the floor the faint gleam of the-stable lantern was enticing,
and Diamond thought he would run down that way.

The stair went close past the loose-box in which Diamond the horse
lived. When Diamond the boy was half-way down, he remembered that it
was of no use to go this way, for the stable-door was locked. But at the
same moment there was horse Diamond's great head poked out of his box
on to the ladder, for he knew boy Diamond although he was in his
night-gown, and wanted him to pull his ears for him. This Diamond did
very gently for a minute or so, and patted and stroked his neck too, and
kissed the big horse, and had begun to take the bits of straw and hay
out of his mane, when all at once he recollected that the Lady North
Wind was waiting for him in the yard
he said, and darted up the ladder, across the
loft, and down the stair to the door. But when he got out into the yard,
there was no lady.

Now it is always a dreadful thing to think there is somebody and find
nobody. Children in particular have not made up their minds to it; they
generally cry at nobody, especially when they wake up at night. But it
was an especial disappointment to Diamond, for his little heart had been
beating with joy: the face of the North Wind was so grand! To have
a lady like that for a friend -- with such long hair, too! Why, it was
longer than twenty Diamonds' tails! She was gone. And there he stood,
with his bare feet on the stones of the paved yard.

It was a clear night overhead, and the stars were shining. Orion in
particular was making the most of his bright belt and golden sword.
But the moon was only a poor thin crescent. There was just one great,
jagged, black and gray cloud in the sky, with a steep side to it like a
precipice; and the moon was against this side, and looked as if she had
tumbled off the top of the cloud-hill, and broken herself in rolling
down the precipice. She did not seem comfortable, for she was looking
down into the deep pit waiting for her. At least that was what Diamond
thought as he stood for a moment staring at her. But he was quite wrong,
for the moon was not afraid, and there was no pit she was going down
into, for there were no sides to it, and a pit without sides to it is
not a pit at all. Diamond, however, had not been out so late before in
all his life, and things looked so strange about him!-- just as if he had
got into Fairyland, of which he knew quite as much as anybody; for his
mother had no money to buy books to set him wrong on the subject. I have
seen this world -- only sometimes, just now and then, you know -- look as
strange as ever I saw Fairyland. But I confess that I have not yet seen
Fairyland at its best. I am always going to see it so some time. But if
you had been out in the face and not at the back of the North Wind, on a
cold rather frosty night, and in your night-gown, you would have felt it
all quite as strange as Diamond did. He cried a little, just a little,
he was so disappointed to lose the lady: of course, you, little man,
wouldn't have done that! But for my part, I don't mind people crying so
much as I mind what they cry about, and how they cry -- whether they cry
quietly like ladies and gentlemen, or go shrieking like vulgar emperors,
or ill-natured cooks; for all emperors are not gentlemen, and all cooks
are not ladies -- nor all queens and princesses for that matter, either.

But it can't be denied that a little gentle crying does one good. It did
Diamond good; for as soon as it was over he was a brave boy again
said Diamond
So he went round the end of the stable towards the kitchen-garden. But
the moment he was clear of the shelter of the stable, sharp as a knife
came the wind against his little chest and his bare legs. Still he
would look in the kitchen-garden, and went on. But when he got round the
weeping-ash that stood in the corner, the wind blew much stronger, and
it grew stronger and stronger till he could hardly fight against it. And
it was so cold! All the flashy spikes of the stars seemed to have got
somehow into the wind. Then he thought of what the lady had said about
people being cold because they were not with the North Wind. How it was
that he should have guessed what she meant at that very moment I cannot
tell, but I have observed that the most wonderful thing in the world is
how people come to understand anything. He turned his back to the wind,
and trotted again towards the yard; whereupon, strange to say, it blew
so much more gently against his calves than it had blown against his
shins that he began to feel almost warm by contrast.

You must not think it was cowardly of Diamond to turn his back to
the wind: he did so only because he thought Lady North Wind had said
something like telling him to do so. If she had said to him that he must
hold his face to it, Diamond would have held his face to it. But the
most foolish thing is to fight for no good, and to please nobody.

Well, it was just as if the wind was pushing Diamond along. If he turned
round, it grew very sharp on his legs especially, and so he thought the
wind might really be Lady North Wind, though he could not see her, and
he had better let her blow him wherever she pleased. So she blew and
blew, and he went and went, until he found himself standing at a door
in a wall, which door led from the yard into a little belt of shrubbery,
flanking Mr. Coleman's house. Mr. Coleman was his father's master,
and the owner of Diamond. He opened the door, and went through the
shrubbery, and out into the middle of the lawn, still hoping to find
North Wind. The soft grass was very pleasant to his bare feet, and felt
warm after the stones of the yard; but the lady was nowhere to be seen.
Then he began to think that after all he must have done wrong, and she
was offended with him for not following close after her, but staying to
talk to the horse, which certainly was neither wise nor polite.

There he stood in the middle of the lawn, the wind blowing his
night-gown till it flapped like a loose sail. The stars were very shiny
over his head; but they did not give light enough to show that the grass
was green; and Diamond stood alone in the strange night, which looked
half solid all about him. He began to wonder whether he was in a dream
or not. It was important to determine this
thought Diamond
He came to the conclusion, however,
that, whether he was in a dream or not, there could be no harm in not
crying for a little while longer: he could begin whenever he liked.

The back of Mr. Coleman's house was to the lawn, and one of the
drawing-room windows looked out upon it. The ladies had not gone to bed;
for the light was still shining in that window. But they had no idea
that a little boy was standing on the lawn in his night-gown, or they
would have run out in a moment. And as long as he saw that light,
Diamond could not feel quite lonely. He stood staring, not at the great
warrior Orion in the sky, nor yet at the disconsolate, neglected moon
going down in the west, but at the drawing-room window with the light
shining through its green curtains. He had been in that room once or
twice that he could remember at Christmas times; for the Colemans were
kind people, though they did not care much about children.

All at once the light went nearly out: he could only see a glimmer of
the shape of the window. Then, indeed, he felt that he was left alone.
It was so dreadful to be out in the night after everybody was gone
to bed! That was more than he could bear. He burst out crying in good
earnest, beginning with a wail like that of the wind when it is waking
up.

Perhaps you think this was very foolish; for could he not go home to his
own bed again when he liked? Yes; but it looked dreadful to him to creep
up that stair again and lie down in his bed again, and know that North
Wind's window was open beside him, and she gone, and he might never see
her again. He would be just as lonely there as here. Nay, it would be
much worse if he had to think that the window was nothing but a hole in
the wall.

At the very moment when he burst out crying, the old nurse who had grown
to be one of the family, for she had not gone away when Miss Coleman did
not want any more nursing, came to the back door, which was of glass, to
close the shutters. She thought she heard a cry, and, peering out with a
hand on each side of her eyes like Diamond's blinkers, she saw something
white on the lawn. Too old and too wise to be frightened, she opened the
door, and went straight towards the white thing to see what it was. And
when Diamond saw her coming he was not frightened either, though
Mrs. Crump was a little cross sometimes; for there is a good kind
of crossness that is only disagreeable, and there is a bad kind of
crossness that is very nasty indeed. So she came up with her neck
stretched out, and her head at the end of it, and her eyes foremost of
all, like a snail's, peering into the night to see what it could be that
went on glimmering white before her. When she did see, she made a
great exclamation, and threw up her hands. Then without a word, for she
thought Diamond was walking in his sleep, she caught hold of him, and
led him towards the house. He made no objection, for he was just in
the mood to be grateful for notice of any sort, and Mrs. Crump led him
straight into the drawing-room.

Now, from the neglect of the new housemaid, the fire in Miss Coleman's
bedroom had gone out, and her mother had told her to brush her hair by
the drawing-room fire -- a disorderly proceeding which a mother's wish
could justify. The young lady was very lovely, though not nearly so
beautiful as North Wind; and her hair was extremely long, for it came
down to her knees -- though that was nothing at all to North Wind's hair.
Yet when she looked round, with her hair all about her, as Diamond
entered, he thought for one moment that it was North Wind, and, pulling
his hand from Mrs. Crump's, he stretched out his arms and ran towards
Miss Coleman. She was so pleased that she threw down her brush, and
almost knelt on the floor to receive him in her arms. He saw the next
moment that she was not Lady North Wind, but she looked so like her he
could not help running into her arms and bursting into tears afresh.
Mrs. Crump said the poor child had walked out in his sleep, and Diamond
thought she ought to know, and did not contradict her for anything he
knew, it might be so indeed. He let them talk on about him, and said
nothing; and when, after their astonishment was over, and Miss Coleman
had given him a sponge-cake, it was decreed that Mrs. Crump should take
him to his mother, he was quite satisfied.

His mother had to get out of bed to open the door when Mrs. Crump
knocked. She was indeed surprised to see her, boy; and having taken
him in her arms and carried him to his bed, returned and had a long
confabulation with Mrs. Crump, for they were still talking when Diamond
fell fast asleep, and could hear them no longer
DIAMOND woke very early in the morning, and thought what a curious dream
he had had. But the memory grew brighter and brighter in his head, until
it did not look altogether like a dream, and he began to doubt whether
he had not really been abroad in the wind last night. He came to the
conclusion that, if he had really been brought home to his mother by
Mrs. Crump, she would say something to him about it, and that would
settle the matter. Then he got up and dressed himself, but, finding that
his father and mother were not yet stirring, he went down the ladder to
the stable. There he found that even old Diamond was not awake yet, for
he, as well as young Diamond, always got up the moment he woke, and
now he was lying as flat as a horse could lie upon his nice trim bed of
straw
thought the boy; and creeping up
very softly, before the horse knew, he was astride of his back. Then
it was young Diamond's turn to have more of a surprise than he had
expected; for as with an earthquake, with a rumbling and a rocking
hither and thither, a sprawling of legs and heaving as of many backs,
young Diamond found himself hoisted up in the air, with both hands
twisted in the horse's mane. The next instant old Diamond lashed out
with both his hind legs, and giving one cry of terror young Diamond
found himself lying on his neck, with his arms as far round it as they
would go. But then the horse stood as still as a stone, except that he
lifted his head gently up to let the boy slip down to his back. For
when he heard young Diamond's cry he knew that there was nothing to
kick about; for young Diamond was a good boy, and old Diamond was a good
horse, and the one was all right on the back of the other.

As soon as Diamond had got himself comfortable on the saddle place, the
horse began pulling at the hay, and the boy began thinking. He had never
mounted Diamond himself before, and he had never got off him without
being lifted down. So he sat, while the horse ate, wondering how he was
to reach the ground.

But while he meditated, his mother woke, and her first thought was to
see her boy. She had visited him twice during the night, and found him
sleeping quietly. Now his bed was empty, and she was frightened
she called out.

Diamond turned his head where he sat like a knight on his steed in
enchanted stall, and cried aloud
she returned
She came running to the ladder, and peeping down, saw him aloft on the
great horse
she said
answered Diamond
asked his mother
answered he
His mother thought he had been walking in his sleep again, and hurried
down the ladder. She did not much like going up to the horse, for she
had not been used to horses; but she would have gone into a lion's den,
not to say a horse's stall, to help her boy. So she went and lifted him
off Diamond's back, and felt braver all her life after. She carried him
in her arms up to her room; but, afraid of frightening him at his own
sleep-walking, as she supposed it, said nothing about last night. Before
the next day was over, Diamond had almost concluded the whole adventure
a dream.

For a week his mother watched him very carefully -- going into the loft
several times a night -- as often, in fact, as she woke. Every time she
found him fast asleep.

All that week it was hard weather. The grass showed white in the morning
with the hoar-frost which clung like tiny comfits to every blade. And
as Diamond's shoes were not good, and his mother had not quite saved
up enough money to get him the new pair she so much wanted for him,
she would not let him run out. He played all his games over and over
indoors, especially that of driving two chairs harnessed to the baby's
cradle; and if they did not go very fast, they went as fast as could be
expected of the best chairs in the world, although one of them had only
three legs, and the other only half a back.

At length his mother brought home his new shoes, and no sooner did she
find they fitted him than she told him he might run out in the yard and
amuse himself for an hour.

The sun was going down when he flew from the door like a bird from its
cage. All the world was new to him. A great fire of sunset burned on the
top of the gate that led from the stables to the house; above the fire
in the sky lay a large lake of green light, above that a golden cloud,
and over that the blue of the wintry heavens. And Diamond thought that,
next to his own home, he had never seen any place he would like so much
to live in as that sky. For it is not fine things that make home a nice
place, but your mother and your father.

As he was looking at the lovely colours, the gates were thrown open,
and there was old Diamond and his friend in the carriage, dancing with
impatience to get at their stalls and their oats. And in they came.
Diamond was not in the least afraid of his father driving over him, but,
careful not to spoil the grand show he made with his fine horses and his
multitudinous cape, with a red edge to every fold, he slipped out of the
way and let him dash right on to the stables. To be quite safe he had
to step into the recess of the door that led from the yard to the
shrubbery.

As he stood there he remembered how the wind had driven him to this same
spot on the night of his dream. And once more he was almost sure that
it was no dream. At all events, he would go in and see whether things
looked at all now as they did then. He opened the door, and passed
through the little belt of shrubbery. Not a flower was to be seen in the
beds on the lawn. Even the brave old chrysanthemums and Christmas roses
had passed away before the frost. What? Yes! There was one! He ran and
knelt down to look at it.

It was a primrose -- a dwarfish thing, but perfect in shape -- a
baby-wonder. As he stooped his face to see it close, a little wind began
to blow, and two or three long leaves that stood up behind the flower
shook and waved and quivered, but the primrose lay still in the green
hollow, looking up at the sky, and not seeming to know that the wind was
blowing at all. It was just a one eye that the dull black wintry earth
had opened to look at the sky with. All at once Diamond thought it was
saying its prayers, and he ought not to be staring at it so. He ran to
the stable to see his father make Diamond's bed. Then his father took
him in his arms, carried him up the ladder, and set him down at the
table where they were going to have their tea
said Diamond's father
asked his mother
returned the coachman
But he lowered his voice, and Diamond could not make out more than a
word here and there. For Diamond's father was not only one of the finest
of coachmen to look at, and one of the best of drivers, but one of
the most discreet of servants as well. Therefore he did not talk about
family affairs to any one but his wife, whom he had proved better than
himself long ago, and was careful that even Diamond should hear nothing
he could repeat again concerning master and his family.

It was bed-time soon, and Diamond went to bed and fell fast asleep.

He awoke all at once, in the dark
said a voice.

Now Diamond's mother had once more pasted up North Wind's window
said Diamond
returned Diamond
He had got up on his knees, and was busy with his nails once more at the
paper over the hole in the wall. For now that North Wind spoke again,
he remembered all that had taken place before as distinctly as if it had
happened only last night
returned North Wind
said Diamond, scratching away at the paper
persisted Diamond
said North Wind
said Diamond
Diamond was so pleased to hear this that he scratched at the paper like
ten mice, and getting hold of the edge of it, tore it off. The next
instant a young girl glided across the bed, and stood upon the floor
said Diamond, quite dismayed
said Diamond.

North Wind broke out in a little laugh like the breaking of silver
bubbles, and was gone in a moment. Diamond saw -- for it was a starlit
night, and the mass of hay was at a low ebb now -- the gleam of something
vanishing down the stair, and, springing out of bed, dressed himself as
fast as ever he could. Then he crept out into the yard, through the
door in the wall, and away to the primrose. Behind it stood North
Wind, leaning over it, and looking at the flower as if she had been its
mother
she said, jumping up and holding out her hand.

Diamond took her hand. It was cold, but so pleasant and full of life, it
was better than warm. She led him across the garden. With one bound she
was on the top of the wall. Diamond was left at the foot
he cried
You don't try" said North Wind, who from the top looked down a foot
taller than before
said Diamond.

She reached down, Diamond laid hold of her hand, gave a great spring,
and stood beside her
he said.

Another bound, and they stood in the road by the river. It was full
tide, and the stars were shining clear in its depths, for it lay still,
waiting for the turn to run down again to the sea. They walked along its
side. But they had not walked far before its surface was covered with
ripples, and the stars had vanished from its bosom.

And North Wind was now tall as a full-grown girl. Her hair was flying
about her head, and the wind was blowing a breeze down the river. But
she turned aside and went up a narrow lane, and as she went her hair
fell down around her
she said
So saying, she laid hold of Diamond and began to run, gliding along
faster and faster. Diamond kept up with her as well as he could. She
made many turnings and windings, apparently because it was not quite
easy to get him over walls and houses. Once they ran through a hall
where they found back and front doors open. At the foot of the stair
North Wind stood still, and Diamond, hearing a great growl, started in
terror, and there, instead of North Wind, was a huge wolf by his side.
He let go his hold in dismay, and the wolf bounded up the stair. The
windows of the house rattled and shook as if guns were firing, and the
sound of a great fall came from above. Diamond stood with white face
staring up at the landing
he thought
Coming to himself all at once, he rushed after her with his little fist
clenched. There were ladies in long trains going up and down the stairs,
and gentlemen in white neckties attending on them, who stared at him,
but none of them were of the people of the house, and they said nothing.
Before he reached the head of the stair, however, North Wind met him,
took him by the hand, and hurried down and out of the house
said Diamond, very
solemnly.

North Wind laughed merrily, and went tripping on faster. Her grassy robe
swept and swirled about her steps, and wherever it passed over withered
leaves, they went fleeing and whirling in spirals, and running on their
edges like wheels, all about her feet
she said at last
said Diamond
answered North Wind laughing merrily
said Diamond, dubiously
returned North Wind
said the girl, and she looked down
at him, and Diamond saw the loving eyes of the great lady beaming from
the depths of her falling hair
said Diamond
They were now climbing the slope of a grassy ascent. It was Primrose
Hill, in fact, although Diamond had never heard of it. The moment they
reached the top, North Wind stood and turned her face towards London The
stars were still shining clear and cold overhead. There was not a cloud
to be seen. The air was sharp, but Diamond did not find it cold
said the lady
Yet she stood still for a moment
AND as she stood looking towards London, Diamond saw that she was
trembling
he asked
she answered, looking down upon him with a smile
As she spoke he could have told by her voice, if he had not seen with
his eyes, that she was growing larger and larger. Her head went up and
up towards the stars; and as she grew, still trembling through all her
body, her hair also grew -- longer and longer, and lifted itself from her
head, and went out in black waves. The next moment, however, it fell
back around her, and she grew less and less till she was only a tall
woman. Then she put her hands behind her head, and gathered some of her
hair, and began weaving and knotting it together. When she had done, she
bent down her beautiful face close to his, and said
Diamond held out his arms, for with that grand face looking at him,
he believed like a baby. She took him in her hands, threw him over her
shoulder, and said
And Diamond parted her hair with his hands, crept between, and feeling
about soon found the woven nest. It was just like a pocket, or like
the shawl in which gipsy women carry their children. North Wind put her
hands to her back, felt all about the nest, and finding it safe, said
answered Diamond.

The next moment he was rising in the air. North Wind grew towering up to
the place of the clouds. Her hair went streaming out from her, till it
spread like a mist over the stars. She flung herself abroad in space.

Diamond held on by two of the twisted ropes which, parted and
interwoven, formed his shelter, for he could not help being a little
afraid. As soon as he had come to himself, he peeped through the woven
meshes, for he did not dare to look over the top of the nest. The earth
was rushing past like a river or a sea below him. Trees and water and
green grass hurried away beneath. A great roar of wild animals rose
as they rushed over the Zoological Gardens, mixed with a chattering of
monkeys and a screaming of birds; but it died away in a moment behind
them. And now there was nothing but the roofs of houses, sweeping along
like a great torrent of stones and rocks. Chimney-pots fell, and tiles
flew from the roofs; but it looked to him as if they were left behind
by the roofs and the chimneys as they scudded away. There was a great
roaring, for the wind was dashing against London like a sea; but at
North Wind's back Diamond, of course, felt nothing of it all. He was in
a perfect calm. He could hear the sound of it, that was all.

By and by he raised himself and looked over the edge of his nest. There
were the houses rushing up and shooting away below him, like a fierce
torrent of rocks instead of water. Then he looked up to the sky, but
could see no stars; they were hidden by the blinding masses of the
lady's hair which swept between. He began to wonder whether she would
hear him if he spoke. He would try
he said
From high over his head came the voice of North Wind, answering him,
gently
said Diamond, and was quiet after that, for he did not
want to be troublesome.

But she dropped a little towards the roofs of the houses, and Diamond
could see down into the streets. There were very few people about,
though. The lamps flickered and flared again, but nobody seemed to want
them.

Suddenly Diamond espied a little girl coming along a street. She was
dreadfully blown by the wind, and a broom she was trailing behind her
was very troublesome. It seemed as if the wind had a spite at her -- it
kept worrying her like a wild beast, and tearing at her rags. She was so
lonely there
he cried
said Diamond
cried Diamond, who was still looking after the little girl
They had been sweeping more slowly along the line of the street. There
was a lull in the roaring
said North Wind, as
she sank nearer and nearer to the tops of the houses
said Diamond firmly.

The same moment North Wind dropt into the street and stood, only a tall
lady, but with her hair flying up over the housetops. She put her hands
to her back, took Diamond, and set him down in the street. The same
moment he was caught in the fierce coils of the blast, and all but blown
away. North Wind stepped back a step, and at once towered in stature to
the height of the houses. A chimney-pot clashed at Diamond's feet. He
turned in terror, but it was to look for the little girl, and when he
turned again the lady had vanished, and the wind was roaring along the
street as if it had been the bed of an invisible torrent. The little
girl was scudding before the blast, her hair flying too, and behind her
she dragged her broom. Her little legs were going as fast as ever they
could to keep her from falling. Diamond crept into the shelter of a
doorway, thinking to stop her; but she passed him like a bird, crying
gently and pitifully
shouted Diamond, starting in pursuit
wailed the girl
Diamond could run faster than she, and he had no broom. In a few moments
he had caught her by the frock, but it tore in his hand, and away went
the little girl. So he had to run again, and this time he ran so fast
that he got before her, and turning round caught her in his arms, when
down they went both together, which made the little girl laugh in the
midst of her crying
asked Diamond, rubbing the elbow that had stuck
farthest out. The arm it belonged to was twined round a lamp-post as he
stood between the little girl and the wind
she said, gasping for breath
said Diamond.

And then they were silent for a while, for the wind blew worse than
ever, and they had both to hold on to the lamp-post
asked the girl at length
answered Diamond
asked she
answered he, feeling rather ashamed
she said, staring at him as if a boy with a father
was a natural curiosity
returned Diamond
And she began to cry
again
said Diamond
said the voice of a policeman behind them
said the girl
asked Diamond, quite bewildered
asked Diamond
said Diamond
As he spoke Diamond thought he caught a glimpse of North Wind turning a
corner in front of them; and when they turned the corner too, they found
it quiet there, but he saw nothing of the lady
he said, taking her hand
The girl withdrew her hand, but only to dry her eyes with her frock, for
the other had enough to do with her broom. She put it in his again, and
led him, turning after turning, until they stopped at a cellar-door in a
very dirty lane. There she knocked
said Diamond
answered the
girl
said Diamond
began Diamond, and stopped, he hardly knew
why
said the girl, as she held her ear to the door listening.

But Diamond did not reply. Neither did old Sal
said the girl
asked Diamond
she answered
Diamond obeyed. The wind had now fallen considerably. They wandered on
and on, turning in this direction and that, without any reason for one
way more than another, until they had got out of the thick of the houses
into a waste kind of place. By this time they were both very tired.
Diamond felt a good deal inclined to cry, and thought he had been very
silly to get down from the back of North Wind; not that he would have
minded it if he had done the girl any good; but he thought he had been
of no use to her. He was mistaken there, for she was far happier for
having Diamond with her than if she had been wandering about alone. She
did not seem so tired as he was
said Diamond
she answered
They went towards it and found one, and, better still, there was an
empty barrel lying under the arch
said the girl
She crept in, and Diamond crept in beside her. They put their arms round
each other, and when he began to grow warm, Diamond's courage began to
come back
he said
said the girl
She called him a kid, but she was not really a month older than he was;
only she had had to work for her bread, and that so soon makes people
older
said Diamond
said the
girl
So now, for the sake of his character, Diamond had to tell her the whole
story.

She did not believe a word of it. She said he wasn't such a flat as to
believe all that bosh. But as she spoke there came a great blast of wind
through the arch, and set the barrel rolling. So they made haste to get
out of it, for they had no notion of being rolled over and over as if
they had been packed tight and wouldn't hurt, like a barrel of herrings
said Diamond
They wandered on and on, sometimes sitting on a door-step, but always
turning into lanes or fields when they had a chance.

They found themselves at last on a rising ground that sloped rather
steeply on the other side. It was a waste kind of spot below, bounded by
an irregular wall, with a few doors in it. Outside lay broken things in
general, from garden rollers to flower-pots and wine-bottles. But the
moment they reached the brow of the rising ground, a gust of wind
seized them and blew them down hill as fast as they could run. Nor could
Diamond stop before he went bang against one of the doors in the wall.
To his dismay it burst open. When they came to themselves they peeped
in. It was the back door of a garden
cried Diamond, after staring for a few moments
said the girl.

Diamond got very angry. But he remembered that even if she did box his
ears, he musn't box hers again, for she was a girl, and all that boys
must do, if girls are rude, is to go away and leave them. So he went in
at the door.

"Good-bye, mister" said the girl.

This brought Diamond to his senses
he said
said Diamond
She ran up the hill and disappeared behind it. Then Diamond shut the
door as he best could, and ran through the kitchen-garden to the stable.
And wasn't he glad to get into his own blessed bed again
DIAMOND said nothing to his mother about his adventures. He had half a
notion that North Wind was a friend of his mother, and that, if she did
not know all about it, at least she did not mind his going anywhere with
the lady of the wind. At the same time he doubted whether he might not
appear to be telling stories if he told all, especially as he could
hardly believe it himself when he thought about it in the middle of the
day, although when the twilight was once half-way on to night he had no
doubt about it, at least for the first few days after he had been with
her. The girl that swept the crossing had certainly refused to believe
him. Besides, he felt sure that North Wind would tell him if he ought to
speak.

It was some time before he saw the lady of the wind again. Indeed
nothing remarkable took place in Diamond's history until the following
week. This was what happened then. Diamond the horse wanted new shoes,
and Diamond's father took him out of the stable, and was just getting on
his back to ride him to the forge, when he saw his little boy standing
by the pump, and looking at him wistfully. Then the coachman took his
foot out of the stirrup, left his hold of the mane and bridle, came
across to his boy, lifted him up, and setting him on the horse's back,
told him to sit up like a man. He then led away both Diamonds together.

The boy atop felt not a little tremulous as the great muscles that
lifted the legs of the horse knotted and relaxed against his legs, and
he cowered towards the withers, grasping with his hands the bit of mane
worn short by the collar; but when his father looked back at him,
saying once more
he let the mane go and sat up,
notwithstanding that the horse, thinking, I suppose, that his master
had said to him
stepped out faster. For both the
Diamonds were just grandly obedient. And Diamond soon found that, as he
was obedient to his father, so the horse was obedient to him. For he had
not ridden far before he found courage to reach forward and catch hold
of the bridle, and when his father, whose hand was upon it, felt the boy
pull it towards him, he looked up and smiled, and, well pleased, let go
his hold, and left Diamond to guide Diamond; and the boy soon found that
he could do so perfectly. It was a grand thing to be able to guide a
great beast like that. And another discovery he made was that, in order
to guide the horse, he had in a measure to obey the horse first. If he
did not yield his body to the motions of the horse's body, he could not
guide him; he must fall off.

The blacksmith lived at some distance, deeper into London. As they
crossed the angle of a square, Diamond, who was now quite comfortable
on his living throne, was glancing this way and that in a gentle pride,
when he saw a girl sweeping a crossing scuddingly before a lady. The
lady was his father's mistress, Mrs. Coleman, and the little girl was
she for whose sake he had got off North Wind's back. He drew Diamond's
bridle in eager anxiety to see whether her outstretched hand would
gather a penny from Mrs. Coleman. But she had given one at the last
crossing, and the hand returned only to grasp its broom. Diamond could
not bear it. He had a penny in his pocket, a gift of the same lady the
day before, and he tumbled off his horse to give it to the girl. He
tumbled off, I say, for he did tumble when he reached the ground. But he
got up in an instant, and ran, searching his pocket as he ran. She
made him a pretty courtesy when he offered his treasure, but with a
bewildered stare. She thought first
but, looking up at the sound of the horse's feet
on the paved crossing, she changed her idea, saying to herself
And she had a mind to refuse the penny. But his smile put it all
right, and she not only took his penny but put it in her mouth with a
answered Diamond
said the little girl, and was speechless.

Meantime his father, looking up, and seeing the horse's back bare,
suffered a pang of awful dread, but the next moment catching sight of
him, took him up and put him on, saying
answered the boy, and rode on in majestic safety.

The summer drew near, warm and splendid. Miss Coleman was a little
better in health, and sat a good deal in the garden. One day she saw
Diamond peeping through the shrubbery, and called him. He talked to her
so frankly that she often sent for him after that, and by degrees it
came about that he had leave to run in the garden as he pleased. He
never touched any of the flowers or blossoms, for he was not like some
boys who cannot enjoy a thing without pulling it to pieces, and so
preventing every one from enjoying it after them.

A week even makes such a long time in a child's life, that Diamond had
begun once more to feel as if North Wind were a dream of some far-off
year.

One hot evening, he had been sitting with the young mistress, as they
called her, in a little summer-house at the bottom of the lawn -- a
wonderful thing for beauty, the boy thought, for a little window in the
side of it was made of coloured glass. It grew dusky, and the lady began
to feel chill, and went in, leaving the boy in the summer-house. He sat
there gazing out at a bed of tulips, which, although they had closed for
the night, could not go quite asleep for the wind that kept waving
them about. All at once he saw a great bumble-bee fly out of one of the
tulips
said a voice -- a gentle, merry, childish
voice, but so tiny
Diamond could not tell whether the voice was near or far away, it was so
small and yet so clear. He had never seen a fairy, but he had heard of
such, and he began to look all about for one. And there was the tiniest
creature sliding down the stem of the tulip
he asked, going out of the
summer-house, and down on his knees on the green shore of the tulip-bed
answered the little creature
said Diamond reflectively
And, as she spoke, a moan of wind bent the tulips almost to the ground,
and the creature laid her hand on Diamond's shoulder. In a moment he
knew that it was North Wind
he said
said Diamond
And North Wind grew a tall lady, and looked him in the
eyes, and Diamond said
said Diamond
North Wind grew very small indeed, so small that she could not have
blown the dust off a dusty miller, as the Scotch children call a yellow
auricula. Diamond could not even see the blades of grass move as she
flitted along by his foot. They left the lawn, went out by the wicket
in the-coach-house gates, and then crossed the road to the low wall that
separated it from the river
said North Wind
said North Wind
said Diamond
So saying, North Wind gave a little bound, and stood on the top of the
wall. She was just about the height a dragon-fly would be, if it stood
on end
said Diamond, seeing what a lovely little toy-woman she
was
said North Wind
But as she spoke, the tiny face wore the smile of a great, grand woman.
She was only having her own beautiful fun out of Diamond, and true
woman's fun never hurts
she resumed
said Diamond
asked North Wind
said Diamond
said North Wind.

And she flashed like a dragon-fly across the water, whose surface
rippled and puckered as she passed. The next moment the man in the boat
glanced about him, and bent to his oars. The boat flew over the rippling
water. Man and boat and river were awake. The same instant almost, North
Wind perched again upon the river wall
asked Diamond
answered North Wind
said Diamond
said Diamond.

He was staring after the boat. Hearing no answer, he looked down to the
wall.

North Wind was gone. Away across the river went a long ripple -- what
sailors call a cat's paw. The man in the boat was putting up a sail. The
moon was coming to herself on the edge of a great cloud, and the sail
began to shine white. Diamond rubbed his eyes, and wondered what it was
all about. Things seemed going on around him, and all to understand
each other, but he could make nothing of it. So he put his hands in his
pockets, and went in to have his tea. The night was very hot, for the
wind had fallen again
said his mother
returned Diamond, who was only puzzled
she added
he answered.

He stopped for one moment to look out of the window. Above the moon the
clouds were going different ways. Somehow or other this troubled him,
but, notwithstanding, he was soon fast asleep.

He woke in the middle of the night and the darkness. A terrible noise
was rumbling overhead, like the rolling beat of great drums echoing
through a brazen vault. The roof of the loft in which he lay had no
ceiling; only the tiles were between him and the sky. For a while he
could not come quite awake, for the noise kept beating him down, so that
his heart was troubled and fluttered painfully. A second peal of thunder
burst over his head, and almost choked him with fear. Nor did he recover
until the great blast that followed, having torn some tiles off the
roof, sent a spout of wind down into his bed and over his face, which
brought him wide awake, and gave him back his courage. The same moment
he heard a mighty yet musical voice calling him
it said
He looked out of the bed, and saw a gigantic, powerful, but most lovely
arm -- with a hand whose fingers were nothing the less ladylike that they
could have strangled a boa-constrictor, or choked a tigress off its
prey -- stretched down through a big hole in the roof. Without a moment's
hesitation he reached out his tiny one, and laid it in the grand palm
before him
THE hand felt its way up his arm, and, grasping it gently and strongly
above the elbow, lifted Diamond from the bed. The moment he was through
the hole in the roof, all the winds of heaven seemed to lay hold upon
him, and buffet him hither and thither. His hair blew one way, his
night-gown another, his legs threatened to float from under him, and
his head to grow dizzy with the swiftness of the invisible assailant.
Cowering, he clung with the other hand to the huge hand which held his
arm, and fear invaded his heart
he murmured, but the words vanished from his lips as
he had seen the soap-bubbles that burst too soon vanish from the mouth
of his pipe. The wind caught them, and they were nowhere. They couldn't
get out at all, but were torn away and strangled. And yet North Wind
heard them, and in her answer it seemed to Diamond that just because she
was so big and could not help it, and just because her ear and her mouth
must seem to him so dreadfully far away, she spoke to him more tenderly
and graciously than ever before. Her voice was like the bass of a deep
organ, without the groan in it; like the most delicate of violin tones
without the wail in it; like the most glorious of trumpet-ejaculations
without the defiance in it; like the sound of falling water without
the clatter and clash in it: it was like all of them and neither
of them -- all of them without their faults, each of them without its
peculiarity: after all, it was more like his mother's voice than
anything else in the world
she said
murmured Diamond
whispered Diamond
At the same moment, a peal of thunder which shook Diamond's heart
against the sides of his bosom hurtled out of the heavens: I cannot
say out of the sky, for there was no sky. Diamond had not seen the
lightning, for he had been intent on finding the face of North Wind.
Every moment the folds of her garment would sweep across his eyes and
blind him, but between, he could just persuade himself that he saw great
glories of woman's eyes looking down through rifts in the mountainous
clouds over his head.

He trembled so at the thunder, that his knees failed him, and he sunk
down at North Wind's feet, and clasped her round the column of her
ankle. She instantly stooped, lifted him from the roof -- up -- up into her
bosom, and held him there, saying, as if to an inconsolable child
answered Diamond
answered Diamond, nestling closer to her grand bosom
returned North Wind, pressing him closer
said Diamond
answered Diamond, clinging
to North Wind
said Diamond
Diamond clung to her tighter than ever, crying
said North Wind; and as she spoke she gave
one spring from the roof of the hay-loft, and rushed up into the clouds,
with Diamond on her left arm close to her heart. And as if the clouds
knew she had come, they burst into a fresh jubilation of thunderous
light. For a few moments, Diamond seemed to be borne up through the
depths of an ocean of dazzling flame; the next, the winds were writhing
around him like a storm of serpents. For they were in the midst of
the clouds and mists, and they of course took the shapes of the wind,
eddying and wreathing and whirling and shooting and dashing about like
grey and black water, so that it was as if the wind itself had taken
shape, and he saw the grey and black wind tossing and raving most madly
all about him. Now it blinded him by smiting him upon the eyes; now it
deafened him by bellowing in his ears; for even when the thunder came he
knew now that it was the billows of the great ocean of the air dashing
against each other in their haste to fill the hollow scooped out by the
lightning; now it took his breath quite away by sucking it from his body
with the speed of its rush. But he did not mind it. He only gasped first
and then laughed, for the arm of North Wind was about him, and he was
leaning against her bosom. It is quite impossible for me to describe
what he saw. Did you ever watch a great wave shoot into a winding
passage amongst rocks? If you ever did, you would see that the water
rushed every way at once, some of it even turning back and opposing
the rest; greater confusion you might see nowhere except in a crowd of
frightened people. Well, the wind was like that, except that it went
much faster, and therefore was much wilder, and twisted and shot and
curled and dodged and clashed and raved ten times more madly than
anything else in creation except human passions. Diamond saw the threads
of the lady's hair streaking it all. In parts indeed he could not tell
which was hair and which was black storm and vapour. It seemed sometimes
that all the great billows of mist-muddy wind were woven out of the
crossing lines of North Wind's infinite hair, sweeping in endless
intertwistings. And Diamond felt as the wind seized on his hair, which
his mother kept rather long, as if he too was a part of the storm, and
some of its life went out from him. But so sheltered was he by North
Wind's arm and bosom that only at times, in the fiercer onslaught of
some curl-billowed eddy, did he recognise for a moment how wild was the
storm in which he was carried, nestling in its very core and formative
centre.

It seemed to Diamond likewise that they were motionless in this centre,
and that all the confusion and fighting went on around them. Flash after
flash illuminated the fierce chaos, revealing in varied yellow and blue
and grey and dusky red the vapourous contention; peal after peal of
thunder tore the infinite waste; but it seemed to Diamond that North
Wind and he were motionless, all but the hair. It was not so. They were
sweeping with the speed of the wind itself towards the sea
I MUST not go on describing what cannot be described, for nothing is
more wearisome.

Before they reached the sea, Diamond felt North Wind's hair just
beginning to fall about him
he called out
said Diamond
returned Diamond, stoutly
persisted
Diamond
said North Wind, hurriedly
asked doubting little Diamond
said Diamond
said North Wind; and, with one sweep of her great white
arm, she swept yards deep of darkness like a great curtain from before
the face of the boy.

And lo! it was a blue night, lit up with stars. Where it did not shine
with stars it shimmered with the milk of the stars, except where, just
opposite to Diamond's face, the grey towers of a cathedral blotted out
each its own shape of sky and stars
cried Diamond, struck with a kind of terror, for he
had never seen a cathedral, and it rose before him with an awful reality
in the midst of the wide spaces, conquering emptiness with grandeur
said North Wind
There was an open door in the middle of one of the towers, leading out
upon the roof, and through it they passed. Then North Wind set Diamond
on his feet, and he found himself at the top of a stone stair, which
went twisting away down into the darkness for only a little light came
in at the door. It was enough, however, to allow Diamond to see that
North Wind stood beside him. He looked up to find her face, and saw that
she was no longer a beautiful giantess, but the tall gracious lady he
liked best to see. She took his hand, and, giving him the broad part
of the spiral stair to walk on, led him down a good way; then, opening
another little door, led him out upon a narrow gallery that ran all
round the central part of the church, on the ledges of the windows
of the clerestory, and through openings in the parts of the wall that
divided the windows from each other. It was very narrow, and except when
they were passing through the wall, Diamond saw nothing to keep him
from falling into the church. It lay below him like a great silent gulf
hollowed in stone, and he held his breath for fear as he looked down
said the lady, as she
walked gently along, with her hand held out behind her leading him, for
there was not breadth enough for them to walk side by side
answered Diamond
answered North Wind
said Diamond, putting
his little mouth to the beautiful cold hand that had a hold of his
said North Wind
said Diamond
he screamed the next moment, bent double with terror, for
North Wind had let go her hold of his hand, and had vanished, leaving
him standing as if rooted to the gallery.

She left the words
sounding in his ears.

But move he dared not. In a moment more he would from very terror have
fallen into the church, but suddenly there came a gentle breath of cool
wind upon his face, and it kept blowing upon him in little puffs, and at
every puff Diamond felt his faintness going away, and his fear with it.
Courage was reviving in his little heart, and still the cool wafts of
the soft wind breathed upon him, and the soft wind was so mighty and
strong within its gentleness, that in a minute more Diamond was marching
along the narrow ledge as fearless for the time as North Wind herself.

He walked on and on, with the windows all in a row on one side of him,
and the great empty nave of the church echoing to every one of his brave
strides on the other, until at last he came to a little open door, from
which a broader stair led him down and down and down, till at last all
at once he found himself in the arms of North Wind, who held him close
to her, and kissed him on the forehead. Diamond nestled to her, and
murmured into her bosom
she answered
said Diamond
said Diamond, whom my older readers will
have already discovered to be a true child in this, that he was given to
metaphysics
In a moment North Wind was gone, and the next Diamond heard a moaning
about the church, which grew and grew to a roaring. The storm was up
again, and he knew that North Wind's hair was flying.

The church was dark. Only a little light came through the windows, which
were almost all of that precious old stained glass which is so much
lovelier than the new. But Diamond could not see how beautiful they
were, for there was not enough of light in the stars to show the colours
of them. He could only just distinguish them from the walls, He looked
up, but could not see the gallery along which he had passed. He could
only tell where it was far up by the faint glimmer of the windows of
the clerestory, whose sills made part of it. The church grew very lonely
about him, and he began to feel like a child whose mother has forsaken
it. Only he knew that to be left alone is not always to be forsaken.

He began to feel his way about the place, and for a while went wandering
up and down. His little footsteps waked little answering echoes in the
great house. It wasn't too big to mind him. It was as if the church knew
he was there, and meant to make itself his house. So it went on giving
back an answer to every step, until at length Diamond thought he should
like to say something out loud, and see what the church would answer.
But he found he was afraid to speak. He could not utter a word for fear
of the loneliness. Perhaps it was as well that he did not, for the sound
of a spoken word would have made him feel the place yet more deserted
and empty. But he thought he could sing. He was fond of singing, and
at home he used to sing, to tunes of his own, all the nursery rhymes he
knew. So he began to try &bquo;Hey diddle diddle', but it wouldn't do. Then
he tried &bquo;Little Boy Blue', but it was no better. Neither would &bquo;Sing a
Song of Sixpence' sing itself at all. Then he tried &bquo;Poor old Cockytoo',
but he wouldn't do. They all sounded so silly! and he had never thought
them silly before. So he was quiet, and listened to the echoes that came
out of the dark corners in answer to his footsteps.

At last he gave a great sigh, and said
But he did not
hear the gentle echo that answered from far away over his head, for at
the same moment he came against the lowest of a few steps that stretched
across the church, and fell down and hurt his arm. He cried a little
first, and then crawled up the steps on his hands and knees. At the top
he came to a little bit of carpet, on which he lay down; and there he
lay staring at the dull window that rose nearly a hundred feet above his
head.

Now this was the eastern window of the church, and the moon was at that
moment just on the edge of the horizon. The next, she was peeping over
it. And lo! with the moon, St. John and St. Paul, and the rest of them,
began to dawn in the window in their lovely garments. Diamond did not
know that the wonder-working moon was behind, and he thought all the
light was coming out of the window itself, and that the good old men
were appearing to help him, growing out of the night and the darkness,
because he had hurt his arm, and was very tired and lonely, and North
Wind was so long in coming. So he lay and looked at them backwards over
his head, wondering when they would come down or what they would do
next. They were very dim, for the moonlight was not strong enough for
the colours, and he had enough to do with his eyes trying to make out
their shapes. So his eyes grew tired, and more and more tired, and his
eyelids grew so heavy that they would keep tumbling down over his eyes.
He kept lifting them and lifting them, but every time they were heavier
than the last. It was no use: they were too much for him. Sometimes
before he had got them half up, down they were again; and at length he
gave it up quite, and the moment he gave it up, he was fast asleep
THAT Diamond had fallen fast asleep is very evident from the strange
things he now fancied as taking place. For he thought he heard a sound
as of whispering up in the great window. He tried to open his eyes, but
he could not. And the whispering went on and grew louder and louder,
until he could hear every word that was said. He thought it was the
Apostles talking about him. But he could not open his eyes
said one
There came a rustling, and a chinking, for some time, and then there was
a silence, and Diamond felt somehow that all the Apostles were standing
round him and looking down on him. And still he could not open his eyes
asked one
answered St. Luke, who must
have joined the company of the Apostles from the next window, one would
think
cried another
Now Diamond could not bear to hear such things against North Wind, who,
he knew, never played anybody a trick. She was far too busy with her own
work for that. He struggled hard to open his eyes, but without success
said another
Then Diamond knew that they could not be Apostles, talking like this.
They could only be the sextons and vergers and such-like, who got up at
night, and put on the robes of deans and bishops, and called each other
grand names, as the foolish servants he had heard his father tell of
call themselves lords and ladies, after their masters and mistresses.
And he was so angry at their daring to abuse North Wind, that he jumped
up, crying
This was what he began to say, but as he spoke his eyes came wide open,
and behold, there were neither Apostles nor vergers there -- not even a
window with the effigies of holy men in it, but a dark heap of hay all
about him, and the little panes in the roof of his loft glimmering blue
in the light of the morning. Old Diamond was coming awake down below in
the stable. In a moment more he was on his feet, and shaking himself so
that young Diamond's bed trembled under him
said Diamond
So saying, he got up and dressed himself. Then he went out into the
garden. There must have been a tremendous wind in the night, for
although all was quiet now, there lay the little summer-house crushed
to the ground, and over it the great elm-tree, which the wind had broken
across, being much decayed in the middle. Diamond almost cried to see
the wilderness of green leaves, which used to be so far up in the blue
air, tossing about in the breeze, and liking it best when the wind blew
it most, now lying so near the ground, and without any hope of ever
getting up into the deep air again
thought Diamond
said a voice beside him, for Diamond had spoken the last
words aloud.

Diamond started, and looking around saw a clergyman, a brother of Mrs.
Coleman, who happened to be visiting her. He was a great scholar, and
was in the habit of rising early
he added
answered the boy
The clergyman stared. Diamond saw that he had better have held his
tongue, for he could not explain things
said he
he
went on, looking at the tree
asked Diamond
answered the clergyman, smiling
returned Diamond
answered the clergyman
said Diamond
said the clergyman, looking at him very
kindly, as he turned away to the house, with his eyes bent towards the
earth. But Diamond thought within himself
WHEN Diamond went home to breakfast, he found his father and mother
already seated at the table. They were both busy with their bread and
butter, and Diamond sat himself down in his usual place. His mother
looked up at him, and, after watching him for a moment, said
said his father and mother both at once.

"The child's very poorly" added his mother
added his father.

And then they both laughed
said his mother
said his father
said his mother
returned his father
asked Diamond, a little dismayed
said his mother, who was quite proud of her boy's
eyes, only did not want to make him vain
said his father
said his father, laughing
said his father
said his mother; and so it was agreed that Diamond
should go to Sandwich.

I will not describe the preparations Diamond made. You would have
thought he had been going on a three months' voyage. Nor will I describe
the journey, for our business is now at the place. He was met at the
station by his aunt, a cheerful middle-aged woman, and conveyed in
safety to the sleepy old town, as his father called it. And no wonder
that it was sleepy, for it was nearly dead of old age.

Diamond went about staring with his beautiful goggle-eyes, at the quaint
old streets, and the shops, and the houses. Everything looked very
strange, indeed; for here was a town abandoned by its nurse, the sea,
like an old oyster left on the shore till it gaped for weariness. It
used to be one of the five chief seaports in England, but it began to
hold itself too high, and the consequence was the sea grew less and less
intimate with it, gradually drew back, and kept more to itself, till at
length it left it high and dry: Sandwich was a seaport no more; the sea
went on with its own tide-business a long way off, and forgot it. Of
course it went to sleep, and had no more to do with ships. That's what
comes to cities and nations, and boys and girls, who say
Diamond soon made great friends with an old woman who kept a toyshop,
for his mother had given him twopence for pocket-money before he left,
and he had gone into her shop to spend it, and she got talking to him.
She looked very funny, because she had not got any teeth, but Diamond
liked her, and went often to her shop, although he had nothing to spend
there after the twopence was gone.

One afternoon he had been wandering rather wearily about the streets
for some time. It was a hot day, and he felt tired. As he passed the
toyshop, he stepped in
he said, thinking the
old woman was somewhere in the shop. But he got no answer, and sat down
without one. Around him were a great many toys of all prices, from a
penny up to shillings. All at once he heard a gentle whirring somewhere
amongst them. It made him start and look behind him. There were the
sails of a windmill going round and round almost close to his ear. He
thought at first it must be one of those toys which are wound up and go
with clockwork; but no, it was a common penny toy, with the windmill at
the end of a whistle, and when the whistle blows the windmill goes. But
the wonder was that there was no one at the whistle end blowing, and
yet the sails were turning round and round -- now faster, now slower, now
faster again
said Diamond, aloud
said the tiniest voice he had ever heard
asked Diamond
said the voice
said Diamond
said the voice, and it was the smallest voice
that ever spoke
said Diamond
cried Diamond, dismayed to see the
windmill get slower and slower
said North Wind, and the windmill began
turning again so swiftly that Diamond could scarcely see it
said North Wind, and was silent for so long that
Diamond thought she was gone indeed. But after he had quite given her
up, the voice began again
Diamond rose, quite sorry, and without a word left the shop, and went
home.

It soon appeared that his mother had been right about him, for that same
afternoon his head began to ache very much, and he had to go to bed.

He awoke in the middle of the night. The lattice window of his room had
blown open, and the curtains of his little bed were swinging about in
the wind
thought Diamond.

But the next moment he heard some one closing the window, and his aunt
came to his bedside. She put her hand on his face, and said
So his aunt gave him some lemonade, for she had been used to nursing
sick people, and Diamond felt very much refreshed, and laid his head
down again to go very fast asleep, as he thought. And so he did, but
only to come awake again, as a fresh burst of wind blew the lattice
open a second time. The same moment he found himself in a cloud of North
Wind's hair, with her beautiful face, set in it like a moon, bending
over him
she said
said Diamond
said Diamond; and getting out of the bed-clothes, he jumped
into North Wind's arms
said she, as she glided out
of the open lattice and left it swinging.

The moment Diamond felt her arms fold around him he began to feel
better. It was a moonless night, and very dark, with glimpses of stars
when the clouds parted
said North Wind
And Diamond, looking down, saw the white glimmer of breaking water far
below him
said North Wind
asked Diamond
said North Wind
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Diamond, who had been watching the
vessels, and had seen that they went other ways than the wind blew
said North Wind
supplemented Diamond
said North Wind
said Diamond
said Diamond.

In a moment they were on a level with the bulwarks, and North Wind sent
the hatch of the after-store rattling away over the deck to leeward. The
next, Diamond found himself in the dark, for he had tumbled through the
hole as North Wind had told him, and the cover was replaced over his
head. Away he went rolling to leeward, for the wind began all at once to
blow hard. He heard the call of the captain, and the loud trampling of
the men over his head, as they hauled at the main sheet to get the boom
on board that they might take in a reef in the mainsail. Diamond felt
about until he had found what seemed the most comfortable place, and
there he snuggled down and lay.

Hours after hours, a great many of them, went by; and still Diamond
lay there. He never felt in the least tired or impatient, for a strange
pleasure filled his heart. The straining of the masts, the creaking of
the boom, the singing of the ropes, the banging of the blocks as they
put the vessel about, all fell in with the roaring of the wind above,
the surge of the waves past her sides, and the thud with which every now
and then one would strike her; while through it all Diamond could hear
the gurgling, rippling, talking flow of the water against her planks,
as she slipped through it, lying now on this side, now on that -- like a
subdued air running through the grand music his North Wind was making
about him to keep him from tiring as they sped on towards the country at
the back of her doorstep.

How long this lasted Diamond had no idea. He seemed to fall asleep
sometimes, only through the sleep he heard the sounds going on. At
length the weather seemed to get worse. The confusion and trampling of
feet grew more frequent over his head; the vessel lay over more and
more on her side, and went roaring through the waves, which banged and
thumped at her as if in anger. All at once arose a terrible uproar. The
hatch was blown off; a cold fierce wind swept in upon him; and a long
arm came with it which laid hold of him and lifted him out. The same
moment he saw the little vessel far below him righting herself. She had
taken in all her sails and lay now tossing on the waves like a sea-bird
with folded wings. A short distance to the south lay a much larger
vessel, with two or three sails set, and towards it North Wind was
carrying Diamond. It was a German ship, on its way to the North Pole
said North Wind
She managed to hide him amongst the flags of the big ship, which were
all snugly stowed away, and on and on they sped towards the north. At
length one night she whispered in his ear
and
he got up at once and crept on deck. Everything looked very strange.
Here and there on all sides were huge masses of floating ice, looking
like cathedrals, and castles, and crags, while away beyond was a blue
sea
asked Diamond
said Diamond
said
North Wind.

Some of the icebergs were drifting northwards; one was passing very near
the ship. North Wind seized Diamond, and with a single bound lighted on
one of them -- a huge thing, with sharp pinnacles and great clefts. The
same instant a wind began to blow from the south. North Wind hurried
Diamond down the north side of the iceberg, stepping by its jags and
splintering; for this berg had never got far enough south to be melted
and smoothed by the summer sun. She brought him to a cave near the
water, where she entered, and, letting Diamond go, sat down as if weary
on a ledge of ice.

Diamond seated himself on the other side, and for a while was enraptured
with the colour of the air inside the cave. It was a deep, dazzling,
lovely blue, deeper than the deepest blue of the sky. The blue seemed to
be in constant motion, like the blackness when you press your eyeballs
with your fingers, boiling and sparkling. But when he looked across to
North Wind he was frightened; her face was worn and livid
he said
Diamond stared at her in terror, for he saw that her form and face were
growing, not small, but transparent, like something dissolving, not in
water, but in light. He could see the side of the blue cave through her
very heart. And she melted away till all that was left was a pale face,
like the moon in the morning, with two great lucid eyes in it
she said
asked Diamond
she answered
As she spoke, her face too faded quite away, only Diamond thought he
could still see her eyes shining through the blue. When he went closer,
however, he found that what he thought her eyes were only two hollows in
the ice. North Wind was quite gone; and Diamond would have cried, if he
had not trusted her so thoroughly. So he sat still in the blue air of
the cavern listening to the wash and ripple of the water all about the
base of the iceberg, as it sped on and on into the open sea northwards.
It was an excellent craft to go with the current, for there was twice as
much of it below water as above. But a light south wind was blowing too,
and so it went fast.

After a little while Diamond went out and sat on the edge of his
floating island, and looked down into the ocean beneath him. The white
sides of the berg reflected so much light below the water, that he could
see far down into the green abyss. Sometimes he fancied he saw the eyes
of North Wind looking up at him from below, but the fancy never lasted
beyond the moment of its birth. And the time passed he did not know how,
for he felt as if he were in a dream. When he got tired of the green
water, he went into the blue cave; and when he got tired of the blue
cave he went out and gazed all about him on the blue sea, ever sparkling
in the sun, which kept wheeling about the sky, never going below the
horizon. But he chiefly gazed northwards, to see whether any land were
appearing. All this time he never wanted to eat. He broke off little
bits of the berg now and then and sucked them, and he thought them very
nice.

At length, one time he came out of his cave, he spied far off on the
horizon, a shining peak that rose into the sky like the top of some
tremendous iceberg; and his vessel was bearing him straight towards
it. As it went on the peak rose and rose higher and higher above the
horizon; and other peaks rose after it, with sharp edges and jagged
ridges connecting them. Diamond thought this must be the place he was
going to; and he was right; for the mountains rose and rose, till he saw
the line of the coast at their feet and at length the iceberg drove into
a little bay, all around which were lofty precipices with snow on their
tops, and streaks of ice down their sides. The berg floated slowly up to
a projecting rock. Diamond stepped on shore, and without looking behind
him began to follow a natural path which led windingly towards the top
of the precipice.

When he reached it, he found himself on a broad table of ice,
along which he could walk without much difficulty. Before him, at a
considerable distance, rose a lofty ridge of ice, which shot up into
fantastic pinnacles and towers and battlements. The air was very cold,
and seemed somehow dead, for there was not the slightest breath of wind.

In the centre of the ridge before him appeared a gap like the opening
of a valley. But as he walked towards it, gazing, and wondering whether
that could be the way he had to take, he saw that what had appeared a
gap was the form of a woman seated against the ice front of the ridge,
leaning forwards with her hands in her lap, and her hair hanging down to
the ground
said Diamond joyfully, and hurried
on.

He soon came up to the place, and there the form sat, like one of
the great figures at the door of an Egyptian temple, motionless, with
drooping arms and head. Then Diamond grew frightened, because she did
not move nor speak. He was sure it was North Wind, but he thought she
must be dead at last. Her face was white as the snow, her eyes were
blue as the air in the ice-cave, and her hair hung down straight, like
icicles. She had on a greenish robe, like the colour in the hollows of a
glacier seen from far off.

He stood up before her, and gazed fearfully into her face for a few
minutes before he ventured to speak. At length, with a great effort and
a trembling voice, he faltered out
said the form, without lifting its head
said Diamond, almost crying now
said Diamond, wishing
to show his love by being obedient
said North Wind.

Diamond walked towards her instantly. When he reached her knees, he put
out his hand to lay it on her, but nothing was there save an intense
cold. He walked on. Then all grew white about him; and the cold stung
him like fire. He walked on still, groping through the whiteness. It
thickened about him. At last, it got into his heart, and he lost all
sense. I would say that he fainted -- only whereas in common faints all
grows black about you, he felt swallowed up in whiteness. It was when he
reached North Wind's heart that he fainted and fell. But as he fell, he
rolled over the threshold, and it was thus that Diamond got to the back
of the north wind
I HAVE now come to the most difficult part of my story. And why? Because
I do not know enough about it. And why should I not know as much about
this part as about any other part? For of course I could know nothing
about the story except Diamond had told it; and why should not Diamond
tell about the country at the back of the north wind, as well as about
his adventures in getting there? Because, when he came back, he had
forgotten a great deal, and what he did remember was very hard to tell.
Things there are so different from things here! The people there do not
speak the same language for one thing. Indeed, Diamond insisted that
there they do not speak at all. I do not think he was right, but it may
well have appeared so to Diamond. The fact is, we have different reports
of the place from the most trustworthy people. Therefore we are bound
to believe that it appears somewhat different to different people. All,
however, agree in a general way about it.

I will tell you something of what two very different people have
reported, both of whom knew more about it, I believe, than Herodotus.
One of them speaks from his own experience, for he visited the country;
the other from the testimony of a young peasant girl who came back from
it for a month's visit to her friends. The former was a great Italian
of noble family, who died more than five hundred years ago; the latter a
Scotch shepherd who died not forty years ago.

The Italian, then, informs us that he had to enter that country through
a fire so hot that he would have thrown himself into boiling glass to
cool himself. This was not Diamond's experience, but then Durante -- that
was the name of the Italian, and it means Lasting, for his books will
last as long as there are enough men in the world worthy of having
them -- Durante was an elderly man, and Diamond was a little boy, and so
their experience must be a little different. The peasant girl, on the
other hand, fell fast asleep in a wood, and woke in the same country.

In describing it, Durante says that the ground everywhere smelt sweetly,
and that a gentle, even-tempered wind, which never blew faster or
slower, breathed in his face as he went, making all the leaves point one
way, not so as to disturb the birds in the tops of the trees, but, on
the contrary, sounding a bass to their song. He describes also a little
river which was so full that its little waves, as it hurried along, bent
the grass, full of red and yellow flowers, through which it flowed. He
says that the purest stream in the world beside this one would look as
if it were mixed with something that did not belong to it, even although
it was flowing ever in the brown shadow of the trees, and neither sun
nor moon could shine upon it. He seems to imply that it is always the
month of May in that country. It would be out of place to describe here
the wonderful sights he saw, for the music of them is in another key
from that of this story, and I shall therefore only add from the account
of this traveller, that the people there are so free and so just and so
healthy, that every one of them has a crown like a king and a mitre like
a priest.

The peasant girl -- Kilmeny was her name -- could not report such grand
things as Durante, for, as the shepherd says, telling her story as I
tell Diamond's
The last two lines are the shepherd's own remark, and a matter of
opinion. But it is clear, I think, that Kilmeny must have described
the same country as Durante saw, though, not having his experience, she
could neither understand nor describe it so well.

Now I must give you such fragments of recollection as Diamond was able
to bring back with him.

When he came to himself after he fell, he found himself at the back of
the north wind. North Wind herself was nowhere to be seen. Neither
was there a vestige of snow or of ice within sight. The sun too had
vanished; but that was no matter, for there was plenty of a certain
still rayless light. Where it came from he never found out; but he
thought it belonged to the country itself. Sometimes he thought it came
out of the flowers, which were very bright, but had no strong colour.
He said the river -- for all agree that there is a river there -- flowed
not only through, but over grass: its channel, instead of being rock,
stones, pebbles, sand, or anything else, was of pure meadow grass, not
over long. He insisted that if it did not sing tunes in people's ears,
it sung tunes in their heads, in proof of which I may mention that, in
the troubles which followed, Diamond was often heard singing; and when
asked what he was singing, would answer
And I may as well say at once that
Diamond never told these things to any one but -- no, I had better not say
who it was; but whoever it was told me, and I thought it would be well
to write them for my child-readers.

He could not say he was very happy there, for he had neither his father
nor mother with him, but he felt so still and quiet and patient and
contented, that, as far as the mere feeling went, it was something
better than mere happiness. Nothing went wrong at the back of the north
wind. Neither was anything quite right, he thought. Only everything was
going to be right some day. His account disagreed with that of Durante,
and agreed with that of Kilmeny, in this, that he protested there was no
wind there at all. I fancy he missed it. At all events we could not do
without wind. It all depends on how big our lungs are whether the wind
is too strong for us or not.

When the person he told about it asked him whether he saw anybody he
knew there, he answered
This was how Diamond used to answer questions about that country. And
now I will take up the story again, and tell you how he got back to this
country
WHEN one at the back of the north wind wanted to know how things were
going with any one he loved, he had to go to a certain tree, climb the
stem, and sit down in the branches. In a few minutes, if he kept very
still, he would see something at least of what was going on with the
people he loved.

One day when Diamond was sitting in this tree, he began to long very
much to get home again, and no wonder, for he saw his mother crying.
Durante says that the people there may always follow their wishes,
because they never wish but what is good. Diamond's wish was to get
home, and he would fain follow his wish.

But how was he to set about it? If he could only see North Wind! But the
moment he had got to her back, she was gone altogether from his sight.
He had never seen her back. She might be sitting on her doorstep still,
looking southwards, and waiting, white and thin and blue-eyed, until she
was wanted. Or she might have again become a mighty creature, with
power to do that which was demanded of her, and gone far away upon many
missions. She must be somewhere, however. He could not go home without
her, and therefore he must find her. She could never have intended to
leave him always away from his mother. If there had been any danger of
that, she would have told him, and given him his choice about going. For
North Wind was right honest. How to find North Wind, therefore, occupied
all his thoughts.

In his anxiety about his mother, he used to climb the tree every day,
and sit in its branches. However many of the dwellers there did so, they
never incommoded one another; for the moment one got into the tree, he
became invisible to every one else; and it was such a wide-spreading
tree that there was room for every one of the people of the country
in it, without the least interference with each other. Sometimes, on
getting down, two of them would meet at the root, and then they would
smile to each other more sweetly than at any other time, as much as to
say
One day he was sitting on one of the outer branches of the tree, looking
southwards after his home. Far away was a blue shining sea, dotted with
gleaming and sparkling specks of white. Those were the icebergs. Nearer
he saw a great range of snow-capped mountains, and down below him the
lovely meadow-grass of the country, with the stream flowing and flowing
through it, away towards the sea. As he looked he began to wonder, for
the whole country lay beneath him like a map, and that which was near
him looked just as small as that which he knew to be miles away. The
ridge of ice which encircled it appeared but a few yards off, and no
larger than the row of pebbles with which a child will mark out the
boundaries of the kingdom he has appropriated on the sea-shore. He
thought he could distinguish the vapoury form of North Wind, seated as
he had left her, on the other side. Hastily he descended the tree, and
to his amazement found that the map or model of the country still lay at
his feet. He stood in it. With one stride he had crossed the river; with
another he had reached the ridge of ice; with the third he stepped over
its peaks, and sank wearily down at North Wind's knees. For there she
sat on her doorstep. The peaks of the great ridge of ice were as lofty
as ever behind her, and the country at her back had vanished from
Diamond's view.

North Wind was as still as Diamond had left her. Her pale face was white
as the snow, and her motionless eyes were as blue as the caverns in the
ice. But the instant Diamond touched her, her face began to change like
that of one waking from sleep. Light began to glimmer from the blue of
her eyes.

A moment more, and she laid her hand on Diamond's head, and began
playing with his hair. Diamond took hold of her hand, and laid his face
to it. She gave a little start
she murmured
By the help of the stones all around he clambered up beside her, and
laid himself against her bosom. She gave a great sigh, slowly lifted her
arms, and slowly folded them about him, until she clasped him close. Yet
a moment, and she roused herself, and came quite awake; and the cold of
her bosom, which had pierced Diamond's bones, vanished
asked Diamond, stroking her hand
she answered, looking at him with her old kindness
answered Diamond
returned North Wind
exclaimed Diamond
replied North Wind
said Diamond, after thinking a while
asked North Wind
Next moment Diamond found himself sitting alone on the rock. North Wind
had vanished. A creature like a great humble-bee or cockchafer flew past
his face; but it could be neither, for there were no insects amongst the
ice. It passed him again and again, flying in circles around him, and he
concluded that it must be North Wind herself, no bigger than Tom Thumb
when his mother put him in the nutshell lined with flannel. But she was
no longer vapoury and thin. She was solid, although tiny. A moment more,
and she perched on his shoulder
she said in his ear, in the smallest and highest
of treble voices
Diamond could just see her, by turning his head towards his shoulder as
far as he could, but only with one eye, for his nose came between her
and the other
he said in a whisper, for
he knew she did not like a loud voice when she was small
returned North Wind, smiling
She jumped from his shoulder, but when Diamond looked for her upon the
ground, he could see nothing but a little spider with long legs that
made its way over the ice towards the south. It ran very fast indeed for
a spider, but Diamond ran a long way before it, and then waited for
it. It was up with him sooner than he had expected, however, and it
had grown a good deal. And the spider grew and grew and went faster and
faster, till all at once Diamond discovered that it was not a spider,
but a weasel; and away glided the weasel, and away went Diamond after
it, and it took all the run there was in him to keep up with the weasel.
And the weasel grew, and grew, and grew, till all at once Diamond saw
that the weasel was not a weasel but a cat. And away went the cat, and
Diamond after it. And when he had run half a mile, he found the cat
waiting for him, sitting up and washing her face not to lose time. And
away went the cat again, and Diamond after it. But the next time he came
up with the cat, the cat was not a cat, but a hunting-leopard. And the
hunting-leopard grew to a jaguar, all covered with spots like eyes.
And the jaguar grew to a Bengal tiger. And at none of them was Diamond
afraid, for he had been at North Wind's back, and he could be afraid of
her no longer whatever she did or grew. And the tiger flew over the snow
in a straight line for the south, growing less and less to Diamond's
eyes till it was only a black speck upon the whiteness; and then it
vanished altogether. And now Diamond felt that he would rather not run
any farther, and that the ice had got very rough. Besides, he was near
the precipices that bounded the sea, so he slackened his pace to a walk,
saying aloud to himself
said North Wind's voice
behind him.

Diamond turned, and saw her as he liked best to see her, standing beside
him, a tall lady
he asked, for he knew all the creatures from a
picture book that Miss Coleman had given him
he
added
remarked Diamond
persisted Diamond
said North Wind, stooping and holding out her arms
Diamond held up his arms to meet hers, and was safe upon her bosom.
North Wind bounded into the air. Her tresses began to lift and rise and
spread and stream and flow and flutter; and with a roar from her hair
and an answering roar from one of the great glaciers beside them, whose
slow torrent tumbled two or three icebergs at once into the waves at
their feet, North Wind and Diamond went flying southwards
As THEY flew, so fast they went that the sea slid away from under them
like a great web of shot silk, blue shot with grey, and green shot with
purple. They went so fast that the stars themselves appeared to sail
away past them overhead
on a blue sea turned
upside down. And they went so fast that Diamond himself went the other
way as fast -- I mean he went fast asleep in North Wind's arms.

When he woke, a face was bending over him; but it was not North Wind's;
it was his mother's. He put out his arms to her, and she clasped him to
her bosom and burst out crying. Diamond kissed her again and again to
make her stop. Perhaps kissing is the best thing for crying, but it will
not always stop it
he said
she sobbed
returned Diamond
said his mother.

But that moment the doctor came in
said the doctor with gentle cheerfulness
Then he drew the mother aside, and told her not to talk to Diamond, or
to mind what he might say; for he must be kept as quiet as possible. And
indeed Diamond was not much inclined to talk, for he felt very strange
and weak, which was little wonder, seeing that all the time he had been
away he had only sucked a few lumps of ice, and there could not be much
nourishment in them.

Now while he is lying there, getting strong again with chicken broth and
other nice things, I will tell my readers what had been taking place at
his home, for they ought to be told it.

They may have forgotten that Miss Coleman was in a very poor state of
health. Now there were three reasons for this. In the first place,
her lungs were not strong. In the second place, there was a gentleman
somewhere who had not behaved very well to her. In the third place, she
had not anything particular to do. These three nots together are enough
to make a lady very ill indeed. Of course she could not help the first
cause; but if the other two causes had not existed, that would have been
of little consequence; she would only have to be a little careful. The
second she could not help quite; but if she had had anything to do,
and had done it well, it would have been very difficult for any man to
behave badly to her. And for this third cause of her illness, if she had
had anything to do that was worth doing, she might have borne his bad
behaviour so that even that would not have made her ill. It is not
always easy, I confess, to find something to do that is worth doing, but
the most difficult things are constantly being done, and she might have
found something if she had tried. Her fault lay in this, that she had
not tried. But, to be sure, her father and mother were to blame that
they had never set her going. Only then again, nobody had told her
father and mother that they ought to set her going in that direction. So
as none of them would find it out of themselves, North Wind had to teach
them.

We know that North Wind was very busy that night on which she left
Diamond in the cathedral. She had in a sense been blowing through
and through the Colemans' house the whole of the night. First, Miss
Coleman's maid had left a chink of her mistress's window open, thinking
she had shut it, and North Wind had wound a few of her hairs round the
lady's throat. She was considerably worse the next morning. Again, the
ship which North Wind had sunk that very night belonged to Mr. Coleman.
Nor will my readers understand what a heavy loss this was to him until
I have informed them that he had been getting poorer and poorer for some
time. He was not so successful in his speculations as he had been,
for he speculated a great deal more than was right, and it was time he
should be pulled up. It is a hard thing for a rich man to grow poor;
but it is an awful thing for him to grow dishonest, and some kinds of
speculation lead a man deep into dishonesty before he thinks what he is
about. Poverty will not make a man worthless -- he may be worth a great
deal more when he is poor than he was when he was rich; but dishonesty
goes very far indeed to make a man of no value -- a thing to be thrown
out in the dust-hole of the creation, like a bit of a broken basin, or a
dirty rag. So North Wind had to look after Mr. Coleman, and try to make
an honest man of him. So she sank the ship which was his last venture,
and he was what himself and his wife and the world called ruined.

Nor was this all yet. For on board that vessel Miss Coleman's lover was
a passenger; and when the news came that the vessel had gone down, and
that all on board had perished, we may be sure she did not think
the loss of their fine house and garden and furniture the greatest
misfortune in the world.

Of course, the trouble did not end with Mr. Coleman and his family.
Nobody can suffer alone. When the cause of suffering is most deeply
hidden in the heart, and nobody knows anything about it but the man
himself, he must be a great and a good man indeed, such as few of us
have known, if the pain inside him does not make him behave so as to
cause all about him to be more or less uncomfortable. But when a man
brings money-troubles on himself by making haste to be rich, then
most of the people he has to do with must suffer in the same way with
himself. The elm-tree which North Wind blew down that very night, as
if small and great trials were to be gathered in one heap, crushed Miss
Coleman's pretty summer-house: just so the fall of Mr. Coleman crushed
the little family that lived over his coach-house and stable. Before
Diamond was well enough to be taken home, there was no home for him
to go to. Mr. Coleman -- or his creditors, for I do not know the
particulars -- had sold house, carriage, horses, furniture, and
everything. He and his wife and daughter and Mrs. Crump had gone to live
in a small house in Hoxton, where he would be unknown, and whence he
could walk to his place of business in the City. For he was not an old
man, and hoped yet to retrieve his fortunes. Let us hope that he lived
to retrieve his honesty, the tail of which had slipped through his
fingers to the very last joint, if not beyond it.

Of course, Diamond's father had nothing to do for a time, but it was
not so hard for him to have nothing to do as it was for Miss Coleman. He
wrote to his wife that, if her sister would keep her there till he got
a place, it would be better for them, and he would be greatly obliged
to her. Meantime, the gentleman who had bought the house had allowed his
furniture to remain where it was for a little while.

Diamond's aunt was quite willing to keep them as long as she could. And
indeed Diamond was not yet well enough to be moved with safety.

When he had recovered so far as to be able to go out, one day his mother
got her sister's husband, who had a little pony-cart, to carry them
down to the sea-shore, and leave them there for a few hours. He had
some business to do further on at Ramsgate, and would pick them up as he
returned. A whiff of the sea-air would do them both good, she said, and
she thought besides she could best tell Diamond what had happened if she
had him quite to herself
DIAMOND and his mother sat down upon the edge of the rough grass that
bordered the sand. The sun was just far enough past its highest not to
shine in their eyes when they looked eastward. A sweet little wind blew
on their left side, and comforted the mother without letting her know
what it was that comforted her. Away before them stretched the sparkling
waters of the ocean, every wave of which flashed out its own delight
back in the face of the great sun, which looked down from the stillness
of its blue house with glorious silent face upon its flashing children.
On each hand the shore rounded outwards, forming a little bay. There
were no white cliffs here, as further north and south, and the place was
rather dreary, but the sky got at them so much the better. Not a house,
not a creature was within sight. Dry sand was about their feet, and
under them thin wiry grass, that just managed to grow out of the
poverty-stricken shore
said Diamond's mother, with a deep sigh
said Diamond
returned Diamond
said his mother
returned Diamond with triumph
answered his mother, bursting into tears
said Diamond with a gasp
returned his mother,
smiling through her tears
said Diamond
said his mother, petulantly
said Diamond, thinking I daresay more than he
chose to put in words
thought his mother, but she said nothing
Diamond went on
said Diamond, getting up
returned Diamond promptly
said his mother.
But the same moment she stopped, and was silent for a good while. I
cannot tell whether Diamond knew what she was thinking, but I think I
know. She had heard something at church the day before, which came back
upon her -- something like this, that she hadn't to eat for tomorrow as
well as for to-day; and that what was not wanted couldn't be missed.
So, instead of saying anything more, she stretched out her hand for the
basket, and she and Diamond had their dinner.

And Diamond did enjoy it. For the drive and the fresh air had made him
quite hungry; and he did not, like his mother, trouble himself about
what they should dine off that day week. The fact was he had lived so
long without any food at all at the back of the north wind, that he knew
quite well that food was not essential to existence; that in fact, under
certain circumstances, people could live without it well enough.

His mother did not speak much during their dinner. After it was over she
helped him to walk about a little, but he was not able for much and soon
got tired. He did not get fretful, though. He was too glad of having the
sun and the wind again, to fret because he could not run about. He lay
down on the dry sand, and his mother covered him with a shawl. She then
sat by his side, and took a bit of work from her pocket. But Diamond
felt rather sleepy, and turned on his side and gazed sleepily over the
sand. A few yards off he saw something fluttering
he said
she answered
said Diamond
said his mother
So she rose and went and found that they were both right, for it was a
little book, partly buried in the sand. But several of its leaves were
clear of the sand, and these the wind kept blowing about in a very
flutterful manner. She took it up and brought it to Diamond
he asked
she answered
said Diamond
she said, and began one
she said again
She turned the leaves searching, but three times, with sudden puffs, the
wind blew the leaves rustling back to the same verses
said Diamond, who seemed to be of the same mind as
the wind
So his mother thought it might amuse him, though she couldn't find any
sense in it. She never thought he might understand it, although she
could not.

Now I do not exactly know what the mother read, but this is what Diamond
heard, or thought afterwards that he had heard. He was, however, as I
have said, very sleepy. And when he thought he understood the verses he
may have been only dreaming better ones. This is how they went --

I know a river whose waters run asleep run run ever singing in the
shallows dumb in the hollows sleeping so deep and all the swallows that
dip their feathers in the hollows or in the shallows are the merriest
swallows of all for the nests they bake with the clay they cake with
the water they shake from their wings that rake the water out of the
shallows or the hollows will hold together in any weather and so the
swallows are the merriest fellows and have the merriest children and
are built so narrow like the head of an arrow to cut the air and go just
where the nicest water is flowing and the nicest dust is blowing for
each so narrow like head of an arrow is only a barrow to carry the
mud he makes from the nicest water flowing and the nicest dust that is
blowing to build his nest for her he loves best with the nicest cakes
which the sunshine bakes all for their merry children all so callow with
beaks that follow gaping and hollow wider and wider after their father
or after their mother the food-provider who brings them a spider or a
worm the poor hider down in the earth so there's no dearth for their
beaks as yellow as the buttercups growing beside the flowing of the
singing river always and ever growing and blowing for fast as the sheep
awake or asleep crop them and crop them they cannot stop them but up
they creep and on they go blowing and so with the daisies the little
white praises they grow and they blow and they spread out their crown
and they praise the sun and when he goes down their praising is done and
they fold up their crown and they sleep every one till over the plain
he's shining amain and they're at it again praising and praising such
low songs raising that no one hears them but the sun who rears them and
the sheep that bite them are the quietest sheep awake or asleep with the
merriest bleat and the little lambs are the merriest lambs they forget
to eat for the frolic in their feet and the lambs and their dams are
the whitest sheep with the woolliest wool and the longest wool and the
trailingest tails and they shine like snow in the grasses that grow by
the singing river that sings for ever and the sheep and the lambs are
merry for ever because the river sings and they drink it and the lambs
and their dams are quiet and white because of their diet for what they
bite is buttercups yellow and daisies white and grass as green as the
river can make it with wind as mellow to kiss it and shake it as never
was seen but here in the hollows beside the river where all the swallows
are merriest of fellows for the nests they make with the clay they cake
in the sunshine bake till they are like bone as dry in the wind as a
marble stone so firm they bind the grass in the clay that dries in the
wind the sweetest wind that blows by the river flowing for ever but
never you find whence comes the wind that blows on the hollows and over
the shallows where dip the swallows alive it blows the life as it goes
awake or asleep into the river that sings as it flows and the life it
blows into the sheep awake or asleep with the woolliest wool and the
trailingest tails and it never fails gentle and cool to wave the wool
and to toss the grass as the lambs and the sheep over it pass and tug
and bite with their teeth so white and then with the sweep of their
trailing tails smooth it again and it grows amain and amain it grows and
the wind as it blows tosses the swallows over the hollows and down on
the shallows till every feather doth shake and quiver and all their
feathers go all together blowing the life and the joy so rife into the
swallows that skim the shallows and have the yellowest children for the
wind that blows is the life of the river flowing for ever that washes
the grasses still as it passes and feeds the daisies the little white
praises and buttercups bonny so golden and sunny with butter and honey
that whiten the sheep awake or asleep that nibble and bite and grow
whiter than white and merry and quiet on the sweet diet fed by the river
and tossed for ever by the wind that tosses the swallow that crosses
over the shallows dipping his wings to gather the water and bake the
cake that the wind shall make as hard as a bone as dry as a stone it's
all in the wind that blows from behind and all in the river that flows
for ever and all in the grasses and the white daisies and the merry
sheep awake or asleep and the happy swallows skimming the shallows and
it's all in the wind that blows from behind.


Here Diamond became aware that his mother had stopped reading
he asked
said his mother
said Diamond
she asked
His mother was frightened, for she thought the fever was coming on
again. So she did not contradict him
asked Diamond
she answered
said Diamond
And he began to chant bits of it here
and there; but his mother said nothing for fear of making him, worse;
and she was very glad indeed when she saw her brother-in-law jogging
along in his little cart. They lifted Diamond in, and got up themselves,
and away they went
as Diamond
sang. But he soon grew quiet, and before they reached Sandwich he was
fast asleep and dreaming of the country at the back of the north wind
AFTER this Diamond recovered so fast, that in a few days he was quite
able to go home as soon as his father had a place for them to go. Now
his father having saved a little money, and finding that no situation
offered itself, had been thinking over a new plan. A strange occurrence
it was which turned his thoughts in that direction. He had a friend in
the Bloomsbury region, who lived by letting out cabs and horses to the
cabmen. This man, happening to meet him one day as he was returning from
an unsuccessful application, said to him
answered Diamond's father
said Diamond's father
said his friend
said Diamond's
father, turning to accompany the cab-master
returned his friend sympathetically.

But what was the ex-coachman's delight, when, on going into the stable
where his friend led him, he found the horse he wanted him to buy was
no other than his own old Diamond, grown very thin and bony and
long-legged, as if they, had been doing what they could to fit him for
Hansom work
said Diamond's father indignantly
said his
owner
said Diamond's father; remarking to
himself under his breath
for he did
not feel inclined all at once to confess that his own old horse could
have sunk so low
said his friend
he added,
correcting himself.

But the coachman had a lump in his throat and tears in his eyes. For the
old horse, hearing his voice, had turned his long neck, and when his
old friend went up to him and laid his hand on his side, he whinnied
for joy, and laid his big head on his master's breast. This settled the
matter. The coachman's arms were round the horse's neck in a moment, and
he fairly broke down and cried. The cab-master had never been so fond of
a horse himself as to hug him like that, but he saw in a moment how it
was. And he must have been a good-hearted fellow, for I never heard of
such an idea coming into the head of any other man with a horse to sell:
instead of putting something on to the price because he was now pretty
sure of selling him, he actually took a pound off what he had meant to
ask for him, saying to himself it was a shame to part old friends.

Diamond's father, as soon as he came to himself, turned and asked how
much he wanted for the horse
said the owner
said the coachman
The end of it was that Diamond's father bought old Diamond again, along
with a four-wheeled cab. And as there were some rooms to be had over the
stable, he took them, wrote to his wife to come home, and set up as a
cabman
IT WAS late in the afternoon when Diamond and his mother and the baby
reached London. I was so full of Diamond that I forgot to tell you a
baby had arrived in the meantime. His father was waiting for them with
his own cab, but they had not told Diamond who the horse was; for his
father wanted to enjoy the pleasure of his surprise when he found it
out. He got in with his mother without looking at the horse, and his
father having put up Diamond's carpet-bag and his mother's little trunk,
got upon the box himself and drove off; and Diamond was quite proud of
riding home in his father's own carriage. But when he got to the mews,
he could not help being a little dismayed at first; and if he had never
been to the back of the north wind, I am afraid he would have cried a
little. But instead of that, he said to himself it was a fine thing all
the old furniture was there. And instead of helping his mother to be
miserable at the change, he began to find out all the advantages of the
place; for every place has some advantages, and they are always
better worth knowing than the disadvantages. Certainly the weather was
depressing, for a thick, dull, persistent rain was falling by the time
they reached home. But happily the weather is very changeable; and
besides, there was a good fire burning in the room, which their
neighbour with the drunken husband had attended to for them; and the
tea-things were put out, and the kettle was boiling on the fire. And
with a good fire, and tea and bread and butter, things cannot be said to
be miserable.

Diamond's father and mother were, notwithstanding, rather miserable, and
Diamond began to feel a kind of darkness beginning to spread over his
own mind. But the same moment he said to himself
I do not mean that he thought these very words. They are
perhaps too grown-up for him to have thought, but they represent the
kind of thing that was in his heart and his head. And when heart and
head go together, nothing can stand before them
said Diamond
said his father
said his mother
So she took the baby herself, and set him on her knee. Then Diamond
began to amuse him, and went on till the little fellow was shrieking
with laughter. For the baby's world was his mother's arms; and the
drizzling rain, and the dreary mews, and even his father's troubled
face could not touch him. What cared baby for the loss of a hundred
situations? Yet neither father nor mother thought him hard-hearted
because he crowed and laughed in the middle of their troubles. On the
contrary, his crowing and laughing were infectious. His little heart was
so full of merriment that it could not hold it all, and it ran over into
theirs. Father and mother began to laugh too, and Diamond laughed till
he had a fit of coughing which frightened his mother, and made them all
stop. His father took the baby, and his mother put him to bed.

But it was indeed a change to them all, not only from Sandwich, but from
their old place, instead of the great river where the huge barges with
their mighty brown and yellow sails went tacking from side to side like
little pleasure-skiffs, and where the long thin boats shot past with
eight and sometimes twelve rowers, their windows now looked out upon a
dirty paved yard. And there was no garden more for Diamond to run into
when he pleased, with gay flowers about his feet, and solemn sun-filled
trees over his head. Neither was there a wooden wall at the back of
his bed with a hole in it for North Wind to come in at when she liked.
Indeed, there was such a high wall, and there were so many houses about
the mews, that North Wind seldom got into the place at all, except when
something must be done, and she had a grand cleaning out like other
housewives; while the partition at the head of Diamond's new bed only
divided it from the room occupied by a cabman who drank too much beer,
and came home chiefly to quarrel with his wife and pinch his children.
It was dreadful to Diamond to hear the scolding and the crying. But it
could not make him miserable, because he had been at the back of the
north wind.

If my reader find it hard to believe that Diamond should be so good,
he must remember that he had been to the back of the north wind. If he
never knew a boy so good, did he ever know a boy that had been to the
back of the north wind? It was not in the least strange of Diamond to
behave as he did; on the contrary, it was thoroughly sensible of him.

We shall see how he got on
THE wind blew loud, but Diamond slept a deep sleep, and never heard
it. My own impression is that every time when Diamond slept well and
remembered nothing about it in the morning, he had been all that night
at the back of the north wind. I am almost sure that was how he woke
so refreshed, and felt so quiet and hopeful all the day. Indeed he said
this much, though not to me -- that always when he woke from such a sleep
there was a something in his mind, he could not tell what -- could not
tell whether it was the last far-off sounds of the river dying away in
the distance, or some of the words of the endless song his mother had
read to him on the sea-shore. Sometimes he thought it must have been
the twittering of the swallows -- over the shallows, you, know; but it may
have been the chirping of the dingy sparrows picking up their breakfast
in the yard -- how can I tell? I don't know what I know, I only know what
I think; and to tell the truth, I am more for the swallows than the
sparrows. When he knew he was coming awake, he would sometimes try hard
to keep hold of the words of what seemed a new song, one he had not
heard before -- a song in which the words and the music somehow appeared
to be all one; but even when he thought he had got them well fixed in
his mind, ever as he came awaker -- as he would say -- one line faded away
out of it, and then another, and then another, till at last there was
nothing left but some lovely picture of water or grass or daisies, or
something else very common, but with all the commonness polished off it,
and the lovely soul of it, which people so seldom see, and, alas! yet
seldomer believe in, shining out. But after that he would sing the
oddest, loveliest little songs to the baby -- of his own making, his
mother said; but Diamond said he did not make them; they were made
somewhere inside him, and he knew nothing about them till they were
coming out.

When he woke that first morning he got up at once, saying to himself
When he went into her
room he found her lighting the fire, and his father just getting out of
bed. They had only the one room, besides the little one, not much more
than a closet, in which Diamond slept. He began at once to set things
to rights, but the baby waking up, he took him, and nursed him till
his mother had got the breakfast ready. She was looking gloomy, and his
father was silent; and indeed except Diamond had done all he possibly
could to keep out the misery that was trying to get in at doors and
windows, he too would have grown miserable, and then they would have
been all miserable together. But to try to make others comfortable is
the only way to get right comfortable ourselves, and that comes partly
of not being able to think so much about ourselves when we are helping
other people. For our Selves will always do pretty well if we don't pay
them too much attention. Our Selves are like some little children who
will be happy enough so long as they are left to their own games, but
when we begin to interfere with them, and make them presents of too nice
playthings, or too many sweet things, they begin at once to fret and
spoil
said his mother at last
Could Diamond have had greater praise or greater pleasure? You see
when he forgot his Self his mother took care of his Self, and loved and
praised his Self. Our own praises poison our Selves, and puff and swell
them up, till they lose all shape and beauty, and become like great
toadstools. But the praises of father or mother do our Selves good, and
comfort them and make them beautiful. They never do them any harm. If
they do any harm, it comes of our mixing some of our own praises with
them, and that turns them nasty and slimy and poisonous.

When his father had finished his breakfast, which he did rather in a
hurry, he got up and went down into the yard to get out his horse and
put him to the cab
he said
answered
Diamond
said his mother cheerfully.

But as he was following his father out of the door, she called him back
So Diamond sat down again, took the baby in his lap, and began poking
his face into its little body, laughing and singing all the while,
so that the baby crowed like a little bantam. And what he sang was
something like this -- such nonsense to those that couldn't understand it!
but not to the baby, who got all the good in the world out of it:--
baby's a-sleeping wake up baby for all the swallows are the merriest
fellows and have the yellowest children who would go sleeping and
snore like a gaby disturbing his mother and father and brother and all
a-boring their ears with his snoring snoring snoring for himself and no
other for himself in particular wake up baby sit up perpendicular hark
to the gushing hark to the rushing where the sheep are the woolliest and
the lambs the unruliest and their tails the whitest and their eyes the
brightest and baby's the bonniest and baby's the funniest and baby's the
shiniest and baby's the tiniest and baby's the merriest and baby's
the worriest of all the lambs that plague their dams and mother's
the whitest of all the dams that feed the lambs that go crop-cropping
without stop-stopping and father's the best of all the swallows that
build their nest out of the shining shallows and he has the merriest
children that's baby and Diamond and Diamond and baby and baby and
Diamond and Diamond and baby --


Here Diamond's knees went off in a wild dance which tossed the baby
about and shook the laughter out of him in immoderate peals. His mother
had been listening at the door to the last few lines of his song, and
came in with the tears in her eyes. She took the baby from him, gave him
a kiss, and told him to run to his father.

By the time Diamond got into the yard, the horse was between the shafts,
and his father was looping the traces on. Diamond went round to look at
the horse. The sight of him made him feel very queer. He did not know
much about different horses, and all other horses than their own were
very much the same to him. But he could not make it out. This was
Diamond and it wasn't Diamond. Diamond didn't hang his head like that;
yet the head that was hanging was very like the one that Diamond used
to hold so high. Diamond's bones didn't show through his skin like that;
but the skin they pushed out of shape so was very like Diamond's skin;
and the bones might be Diamond's bones, for he had never seen the shape
of them. But when he came round in front of the old horse, and he put
out his long neck, and began sniffing at him and rubbing his upper lip
and his nose on him, then Diamond saw it could be no other than old
Diamond, and he did just as his father had done before -- put his arms
round his neck and cried -- but not much
he said
And he hugged the horse again, and kissed both his big hairy cheeks. He
could only manage one at a time, however -- the other cheek was so far off
on the other side of his big head.

His father mounted the box with just the same air, as Diamond thought,
with which he had used to get upon the coach-box, and Diamond said
to himself
He had kept his brown
livery-coat, only his wife had taken the silver buttons off and put
brass ones instead, because they did not think it polite to Mr. Coleman
in his fallen fortunes to let his crest be seen upon the box of a cab.
Old Diamond had kept just his collar; and that had the silver crest upon
it still, for his master thought nobody would notice that, and so let it
remain for a memorial of the better days of which it reminded him -- not
unpleasantly, seeing it had been by no fault either of his or of the old
horse's that they had come down in the world together
said Diamond, jumping up on the box
beside him.

His father changed places with him at once, putting the reins into his
hands. Diamond gathered them up eagerly
said his father
said Diamond. Then to the horse he said
And old Diamond's ponderous bulk began at once to move
to the voice of the little boy.

But before they had reached the entrance of the mews, another voice
called after young Diamond, which, in his turn, he had to obey, for it
was that of his mother
it cried; and Diamond pulled
the reins, and the horse stood still as a stone
said his mother, coming up
said his father proudly
said Diamond
said his father, and took the reins which Diamond
was holding out to him.

Diamond got down, a little disappointed of course, and went with his
mother, who was too pleased to speak. She only took hold of his hand as
tight as if she had been afraid of his running away instead of glad that
he would not leave her.

Now, although they did not know it, the owner of the stables, the same
man who had sold the horse to his father, had been standing just inside
one of the stable-doors, with his hands in his pockets, and had heard
and seen all that passed; and from that day John Stonecrop took a great
fancy to the little boy. And this was the beginning of what came of it.

The same evening, just as Diamond was feeling tired of the day's work,
and wishing his father would come home, Mr. Stonecrop knocked at the
door. His mother went and opened it
said he
said
his mother
said his mother thoughtfully
Diamond thought, what a funny thing! How could he have been an invalid
when he did not even know what the word meant? But, of course, his
mother was right
said Mr. Stonecrop
said his mother.
And Diamond, dancing with delight, got his cap, put his hand in Mr.
Stonecrop's, and went with him to the yard where the cab was waiting.
He did not think the horse looked nearly so nice as Diamond, nor Mr.
Stonecrop nearly so grand as his father; but he was none, the less
pleased. He got up on the box, and his new friend got up beside him
whispered Diamond, as he took the reins from
the man
said Mr. Stonecrop
He didn't finish the sentence. Jack handed Diamond a whip, with which,
by holding it half down the stick, he managed just to flack the haunches
of the horse; and away he went
said Mr. Stonecrop; and Diamond did mind the gate, and
guided the nameless horse through it in safety, pulling him this way and
that according as was necessary. Diamond learned to drive all the sooner
that he had been accustomed to do what he was told, and could obey the
smallest hint in a moment. Nothing helps one to get on like that. Some
people don't know how to do what they are told; they have not been used
to it, and they neither understand quickly nor are able to turn what
they do understand into action quickly. With an obedient mind one learns
the rights of things fast enough; for it is the law of the universe, and
to obey is to understand
cried Mr. Stonecrop, as they were turning the corner into
Bloomsbury Square.

It was getting dusky now. A cab was approaching rather rapidly from
the opposite direction, and Diamond pulling aside, and the other driver
pulling up, they only just escaped a collision. Then they knew each
other
cried
the driver
said Diamond in return; and the two men laughed heartily
said his father
said his father, as he brought his cab up to
the other, and moved off the box to the seat beside it. Diamond jumped
across, caught at the reins, said
and drove away home, feeling more of a man than he had ever
yet had a chance of feeling in all his life. Nor did his father find it
necessary to give him a single hint as to his driving. Only I suspect
the fact that it was old Diamond, and old Diamond on his way to his
stable, may have had something to do with young Diamond's success
said his mother, when he entered the room
said his mother
But as Diamond took him, he woke up and began to laugh. For he was
indeed one of the merriest children. And no wonder, for he was as plump
as a plum-pudding, and had never had an ache or a pain that lasted more
than five minutes at a time. Diamond sat down with him and began to sing
to him.

baby baby babbing your father's gone a-cabbing to catch a shilling for
its pence to make the baby babbing dance for old Diamond's a duck they
say he can swim but the duck of diamonds is baby that's him and of all
the swallows the merriest fellows that bake their cake with the water
they shake out of the river flowing for ever and make dust into clay on
the shiniest day to build their nest father's the best and mother's the
whitest and her eyes are the brightest of all the dams that watch their
lambs cropping the grass where the waters pass singing for ever and of
all the lambs with the shakingest tails and the jumpingest feet baby's
the funniest baby's the bonniest and he never wails and he's always
sweet and Diamond's his nurse and Diamond's his nurse and Diamond's his
nurse


When Diamond's rhymes grew scarce, he always began dancing the baby.
Some people wondered that such a child could rhyme as he did, but his
rhymes were not very good, for he was only trying to remember what he
had heard the river sing at the back of the north wind
DIAMOND became a great favourite with all the men about the mews. Some
may think it was not the best place in the world for him to be brought
up in; but it must have been, for there he was. At first, he heard a
good many rough and bad words; but he did not like them, and so they did
him little harm. He did not know in the least what they meant, but there
was something in the very sound of them, and in the tone of voice in
which they were said, which Diamond felt to be ugly. So they did not
even stick to him, not to say get inside him. He never took any notice
of them, and his face shone pure and good in the middle of them, like
a primrose in a hailstorm. At first, because his face was so quiet
and sweet, with a smile always either awake or asleep in his eyes, and
because he never heeded their ugly words and rough jokes, they said he
wasn't all there, meaning that he was half an idiot, whereas he was a
great deal more there than they had the sense to see. And before long
the bad words found themselves ashamed to come out of the men's mouths
when Diamond was near. The one would nudge the other to remind him that
the boy was within hearing, and the words choked themselves before they
got any farther. When they talked to him nicely he had always a good
answer, sometimes a smart one, ready, and that helped much to make them
change their minds about him.

One day Jack gave him a curry-comb and a brush to try his hand upon
old Diamond's coat. He used them so deftly, so gently, and yet so
thoroughly, as far as he could reach, that the man could not help
admiring him
he said
said Diamond, and in a moment he was on the old horse's
back with the comb and brush. He sat on his withers, and reaching
forward as he ate his hay, he curried and he brushed, first at one side
of his neck, and then at the other. When that was done he asked for a
dressing-comb, and combed his mane thoroughly. Then he pushed himself on
to his back, and did his shoulders as far down as he could reach. Then
he sat on his croup, and did his back and sides; then he turned around
like a monkey, and attacked his hind-quarters, and combed his tail. This
last was not so easy to manage, for he had to lift it up, and every now
and then old Diamond would whisk it out of his hands, and once he sent
the comb flying out of the stable door, to the great amusement of the
men. But Jack fetched it again, and Diamond began once more, and did not
leave off until he had done the whole business fairly well, if not in
a first-rate, experienced fashion. All the time the old horse went
on eating his hay, and, but with an occasional whisk of his tail when
Diamond tickled or scratched him, took no notice of the proceeding.
But that was all a pretence, for he knew very well who it was that
was perched on his back, and rubbing away at him with the comb and the
brush. So he was quite pleased and proud, and perhaps said to himself
something like this
I won't vouch for what the old horse was thinking, for it is very
difficult to find out what any old horse is thinking
said Diamond when he had done
And he laid himself down at full length on old Diamond's back.

By this time all the men in the stable were gathered about the two
Diamonds, and all much amused. One of them lifted him down, and from
that time he was a greater favourite than before. And if ever there was
a boy who had a chance of being a prodigy at cab-driving, Diamond was
that boy, for the strife came to be who should have him out with him on
the box.

His mother, however, was a little shy of the company for him, and
besides she could not always spare him. Also his father liked to have
him himself when he could; so that he was more desired than enjoyed
among the cabmen.

But one way and another he did learn to drive all sorts of horses, and
to drive them well, and that through the most crowded streets in London
City. Of course there was the man always on the box-seat beside him, but
before long there was seldom the least occasion to take the reins
from out of his hands. For one thing he never got frightened, and
consequently was never in too great a hurry. Yet when the moment came
for doing something sharp, he was always ready for it. I must once more
remind my readers that he had been to the back of the north wind.

One day, which was neither washing-day, nor cleaning-day nor
marketing-day, nor Saturday, nor Monday -- upon which consequently Diamond
could be spared from the baby -- his father took him on his own cab. After
a stray job or two by the way, they drew up in the row upon the stand
between Cockspur Street and Pall Mall. They waited a long time, but
nobody seemed to want to be carried anywhere. By and by ladies would be
going home from the Academy exhibition, and then there would be a chance
of a job
said Diamond's father -- with what truth I cannot
say, but he believed what he said
As it was very hot, Diamond's father got down to have a glass of beer
himself, and give another to the old waterman. He left Diamond on the
box.

A sudden noise got up, and Diamond looked round to see what was the
matter.

There was a crossing near the cab-stand, where a girl was sweeping. Some
rough young imps had picked a quarrel with her, and were now hauling
at her broom to get it away from her. But as they did not pull all
together, she was holding it against them, scolding and entreating
alternately.

Diamond was off his box in a moment, and running to the help of the
girl. He got hold of the broom at her end and pulled along with her. But
the boys proceeded to rougher measures, and one of them hit Diamond on
the nose, and made it bleed; and as he could not let go the broom to
mind his nose, he was soon a dreadful figure. But presently his father
came back, and missing Diamond, looked about. He had to look twice,
however, before he could be sure that that was his boy in the middle
of the tumult. He rushed in, and sent the assailants flying in all
directions. The girl thanked Diamond, and began sweeping as if nothing
had happened, while his father led him away. With the help of old Tom,
the waterman, he was soon washed into decency, and his father set him on
the box again, perfectly satisfied with the account he gave of the cause
of his being in a fray
he
said
said his father, quite pleased, for Diamond's
father was a gentleman.

A moment after, up came the girl, running, with her broom over her
shoulder, and calling
Diamond's father turned instantly, for he was the foremost in the rank,
and followed the girl. One or two other passing cabs heard the cry, and
made for the place, but the girl had taken care not to call till she was
near enough to give her friends the first chance. When they reached
the curbstone -- who should it be waiting for the cab but Mrs. and Miss
Coleman! They did not look at the cabman, however. The girl opened the
door for them; they gave her the address, and a penny; she told the
cabman, and away they drove.

When they reached the house, Diamond's father got down and rang the
bell. As he opened the door of the cab, he touched his hat as he had
been wont to do. The ladies both stared for a moment, and then exclaimed
together
answered he, again touching his hat, with all
the respect he could possibly put into the action
said Mrs. Coleman
The two ladies went near to pat the horse, and then they noticed Diamond
on the box
said Miss Coleman
Diamond lifted his cap, and answered politely
said his father, proudly
Diamond's father gave the ladies a ticket with his name and address
printed on it; and then Mrs. Coleman took out her purse, saying
said Joseph
He jumped on his box before she could say another word, and with a
parting salute drove off, leaving them on the pavement, with the maid
holding the door for them.

It was a long time now since Diamond had seen North Wind, or even
thought much about her. And as his father drove along, he was thinking
not about her, but about the crossing-sweeper, and was wondering what
made him feel as if he knew her quite well, when he could not remember
anything of her. But a picture arose in his mind of a little girl
running before the wind and dragging her broom after her; and from that,
by degrees, he recalled the whole adventure of the night when he got
down from North Wind's back in a London street. But he could not quite
satisfy himself whether the whole affair was not a dream which he had
dreamed when he was a very little boy. Only he had been to the back of
the north wind since -- there could be no doubt of that; for when he woke
every morning, he always knew that he had been there again. And as he
thought and thought, he recalled another thing that had happened that
morning, which, although it seemed a mere accident, might have something
to do with what had happened since. His father had intended going on the
stand at King's Cross that morning, and had turned into Gray's Inn Lane
to drive there, when they found the way blocked up, and upon inquiry
were informed that a stack of chimneys had been blown down in the night,
and had fallen across the road. They were just clearing the rubbish
away. Diamond's father turned, and made for Charing Cross.

That night the father and mother had a great deal to talk about
said the mother
I don't know" said Diamond thoughtfully
said his mother
returned Diamond
said Diamond
said his mother
said Diamond
said the mother
persisted Diamond, for he had not yet learned that
grown-up people are not often so much grown up that they never talk like
children -- and spoilt ones too
asked Diamond, because of the tone
in which his mother had spoken.

But his mother, whether conscience-stricken I do not know hurried him
away to bed, where after various attempts to understand her, resumed and
resumed again in spite of invading sleep, he was conquered at last, and
gave in, murmuring over and over to himself
but getting
no answer to the question
A FEW nights after this, Diamond woke up suddenly, believing he heard
North Wind thundering along. But it was something quite different. South
Wind was moaning round the chimneys, to be sure, for she was not very
happy that night, but it was not her voice that had wakened Diamond. Her
voice would only have lulled him the deeper asleep. It was a loud, angry
voice, now growling like that of a beast, now raving like that of a
madman; and when Diamond came a little wider awake, he knew that it was
the voice of the drunken cabman, the wall of whose room was at the head
of his bed. It was anything but pleasant to hear, but he could not help
hearing it. At length there came a cry from the woman, and then a scream
from the baby. Thereupon Diamond thought it time that somebody did
something, and as himself was the only somebody at hand, he must go and
see whether he could not do something. So he got up and put on part of
his clothes, and went down the stair, for the cabman's room did not open
upon their stair, and he had to go out into the yard, and in at the next
door. This, fortunately, the cabman, being drunk, had left open. By
the time he reached their stair, all was still except the voice of the
crying baby, which guided him to the right door. He opened it softly,
and peeped in. There, leaning back in a chair, with his arms hanging
down by his sides, and his legs stretched out before him and supported
on his heels, sat the drunken cabman. His wife lay in her clothes upon
the bed, sobbing, and the baby was wailing in the cradle. It was very
miserable altogether.

Now the way most people do when they see anything very miserable is to
turn away from the sight, and try to forget it. But Diamond began as
usual to try to destroy the misery. The little boy was just as much one
of God's messengers as if he had been an angel with a flaming sword,
going out to fight the devil. The devil he had to fight just then
was Misery. And the way he fought him was the very best. Like a wise
soldier, he attacked him first in his weakest point -- that was the baby;
for Misery can never get such a hold of a baby as of a grown person.
Diamond was knowing in babies, and he knew he could do something to make
the baby, happy; for although he had only known one baby as yet, and
although not one baby is the same as another, yet they are so very much
alike in some things, and he knew that one baby so thoroughly, that he
had good reason to believe he could do something for any other. I have
known people who would have begun to fight the devil in a very different
and a very stupid way. They would have begun by scolding the idiotic
cabman; and next they would make his wife angry by saying it must be her
fault as well as his, and by leaving ill-bred though well-meant shabby
little books for them to read, which they were sure to hate the sight
of; while all the time they would not have put out a finger to touch the
wailing baby. But Diamond had him out of the cradle in a moment, set
him up on his knee, and told him to look at the light. Now all the light
there was came only from a lamp in the yard, and it was a very dingy and
yellow light, for the glass of the lamp was dirty, and the gas was bad;
but the light that came from it was, notwithstanding, as certainly
light as if it had come from the sun itself, and the baby knew that, and
smiled to it; and although it was indeed a wretched room which that lamp
lighted -- so dreary, and dirty, and empty, and hopeless!-- there in the
middle of it sat Diamond on a stool, smiling to the baby, and the baby
on his knees smiling to the lamp. The father of him sat staring at
nothing, neither asleep nor awake, not quite lost in stupidity either,
for through it all he was dimly angry with himself, he did not know
why. It was that he had struck his wife. He had forgotten it, but was
miserable about it, notwithstanding. And this misery was the voice of
the great Love that had made him and his wife and the baby and Diamond,
speaking in his heart, and telling him to be good. For that great Love
speaks in the most wretched and dirty hearts; only the tone of its voice
depends on the echoes of the place in which it sounds. On Mount Sinai,
it was thunder; in the cabman's heart it was misery; in the soul of St.
John it was perfect blessedness.

By and by he became aware that there was a voice of singing in the room.
This, of course, was the voice of Diamond singing to the baby -- song
after song, every one as foolish as another to the cabman, for he was
too tipsy to part one word from another: all the words mixed up in his
ear in a gurgle without division or stop; for such was the way he spoke
himself, when he was in this horrid condition. But the baby was more
than content with Diamond's songs, and Diamond himself was so contented
with what the songs were all about, that he did not care a bit about the
songs themselves, if only baby liked them. But they did the cabman good
as well as the baby and Diamond, for they put him to sleep, and the
sleep was busy all the time it lasted, smoothing the wrinkles out of his
temper.

At length Diamond grew tired of singing, and began to talk to the baby
instead. And as soon as he stopped singing, the cabman began to wake up.
His brain was a little clearer now, his temper a little smoother,
and his heart not quite so dirty. He began to listen and he went on
listening, and heard Diamond saying to the baby something like this, for
he thought the cabman was asleep
He went on with chatter like this till baby was asleep, by which time
he was tired, and father and mother were both wide awake -- only rather
confused -- the one from the beer, the other from the blow -- and staring,
the one from his chair, the other from her bed, at Diamond. But he was
quite unaware of their notice, for he sat half-asleep, with his eyes
wide open, staring in his turn, though without knowing it, at the
cabman, while the cabman could not withdraw his gaze from Diamond's
white face and big eyes. For Diamond's face was always rather pale, and
now it was paler than usual with sleeplessness, and the light of the
street-lamp upon it. At length he found himself nodding, and he knew
then it was time to put the baby down, lest he should let him fall. So
he rose from the little three-legged stool, and laid the baby in the
cradle, and covered him up -- it was well it was a warm night, and he did
not want much covering -- and then he all but staggered out of the door,
he was so tipsy himself with sleep
said the cabman, turning towards the bed
said his wife
The cabman kept his cab in another yard, although he had his room in
this. He was often late in coming home, and was not one to take notice
of children, especially when he was tipsy, which was oftener than not.
Hence, if he had ever seen Diamond, he did not know him. But his wife
knew him well enough, as did every one else who lived all day in the
yard. She was a good-natured woman. It was she who had got the fire
lighted and the tea ready for them when Diamond and his mother came home
from Sandwich. And her husband was not an ill-natured man either, and
when in the morning he recalled not only Diamond's visit, but how he
himself had behaved to his wife, he was very vexed with himself, and
gladdened his poor wife's heart by telling her how sorry he was. And for
a whole week after, he did not go near the public-house, hard as it was
to avoid it, seeing a certain rich brewer had built one, like a trap to
catch souls and bodies in, at almost every corner he had to pass on his
way home. Indeed, he was never quite so bad after that, though it was
some time before he began really to reform
ONE day when old Diamond was standing with his nose in his bag between
Pall Mall and Cockspur Street, and his master was reading the newspaper
on the box of his cab, which was the last of a good many in the row,
little Diamond got down for a run, for his legs were getting cramped
with sitting. And first of all he strolled with his hands in his pockets
up to the crossing, where the girl and her broom were to be found in all
weathers. Just as he was going to speak to her, a tall gentleman stepped
upon the crossing. He was pleased to find it so clean, for the streets
were muddy, and he had nice boots on; so he put his hand in his pocket,
and gave the girl a penny. But when she gave him a sweet smile in
return, and made him a pretty courtesy, he looked at her again, and
said
she answered
he asked
she replied
said the gentleman
said the girl, looking up confidently in his face
The words sounded rude, but the girl's face looked so simple that
the gentleman saw she did not mean to be rude, and became still more
interested in her
he insisted
Although she called her wicked, the child spoke so as plainly to
indicate pride in her grannie's pre-eminence in swearing.

The gentleman looked very grave to hear her, for he was sorry that such
a nice little girl should be in such bad keeping. But he did not know
what to say next, and stood for a moment with his eyes on the ground.
When he lifted them, he saw the face of Diamond looking up in his
said Diamond
asked the gentleman of the girl
Here she tapped her forehead with her finger in a significant manner
asked the gentleman, while Diamond looked on
smiling
she whispered
Still Diamond, though he heard every word, and understood it too, kept
on smiling. What could it matter what people called him, so long as he
did nothing he ought not to do? And, besides, God's baby was surely the
best of names
asked the gentleman, turning
towards him -- just for the sake of saying something
said Diamond
he continued; for, accepting what the girl had
said, he regarded the still sweetness of Diamond's face as a sign of
silliness, and wished to be kind to the poor little fellow
said Diamond
said the gentleman
said Diamond
asked Diamond, who was too much a
man of the world not to know that he must have the gentleman's address
before he could go and see him
thought he, as he put his hand in his pocket,
and brought out a card
he said
said Diamond, and put the card in his
pocket.

The gentleman walked away, but turning round a few paces off, saw
Diamond give his penny to the girl, and, walking slower heard him say
The girl put it beside the other in her pocket, the only trustworthy
article of dress she wore. Her grandmother always took care that she had
a stout pocket
asked Diamond
asked Diamond
cried his father, who was afraid he might get no
good by talking to the girl; and Diamond obeyed, and got up again
upon the box. He told his father about the gentleman, and what he had
promised him if he would learn to read, and showed him the gentleman's
card
said his father, giving him
back the card
asked Diamond
said Diamond.

And he took his hands from his pockets, and spreading out the fingers of
his left hand, began to count, beginning at the thumb
said his father
said Diamond.

His father laughed
he said
returned Diamond
said his father
His father laughed again
His father was silent, for he saw that Diamond was right, and was
ashamed to find himself more ungrateful than he had thought
Diamond went on
interposed his father
The father's heart was fairly touched now. He made no answer to this
last appeal, and Diamond ended off with saying
said his father, and then they were both silent
for that was very solemn
THE question of the tall gentleman as to whether Diamond could read or
not set his father thinking it was high time he could; and as soon as
old Diamond was suppered and bedded, he began the task that very night.
But it was not much of a task to Diamond, for his father took for his
lesson-book those very rhymes his mother had picked up on the sea-shore;
and as Diamond was not beginning too soon, he learned very fast indeed.
Within a month he was able to spell out most of the verses for himself.

But he had never come upon the poem he thought he had heard his mother
read from it that day. He had looked through and through the book
several times after he knew the letters and a few words, fancying he
could tell the look of it, but had always failed to find one more like
it than another. So he wisely gave up the search till he could really
read. Then he resolved to begin at the beginning, and read them all
straight through. This took him nearly a fortnight. When he had almost
reached the end, he came upon the following verses, which took his fancy
much, although they were certainly not very like those he was in search
of.


LITTLE BOY BLUE

            Little Boy Blue lost his way in a wood.
               Sing apples and cherries, roses and honey;
            He said
He sang
A little snake crept out of the tree,
               Apples and cherries, roses and honey
said he,
               All so jolly and funny.

            A little bird sang in the tree overhead,
               Apples and cherries, roses and honey
The snake coiled up; and the bird flew down,
            And sang him the song of Birdie Brown.

            Little Boy Blue found it tiresome to sit,
            And he thought he had better walk on a bit.

            So up he got, his way to take,
            And he said
And waves of snake o'er the damp leaves passed,
            And the snake went first and Birdie Brown last;

            By Boy Blue's head, with flutter and dart,
            Flew Birdie Brown with its song in its heart.

            He came where the apples grew red and sweet
He came where the cherries hung plump and red
he said.

            And the boughs bow down, and the apples they dapple
            The grass, too many for him to grapple.

            And the cheeriest cherries, with never a miss,
            Fall to his mouth, each a full-grown kiss.

            He met a little brook singing a song.
            He said
And the song-singing, sing-songing forest brook
            Leaped from its bed and after him took,

            Followed him, followed.  And pale and wan,
            The dead leaves rustled as the water ran.

            And every bird high up on the bough,
            And every creature low down below,

            He called, and the creatures obeyed the call,
            Took their legs and their wings and followed him all;

            Squirrels that carried their tails like a sack,
            Each on his own little humpy brown back;

            Householder snails, and slugs all tails,
            And butterflies, flutterbies, ships all sails;

            And weasels, and ousels, and mice, and larks,
            And owls, and rere-mice, and harkydarks,

            All went running, and creeping, and flowing,
            After the merry boy fluttering and going;

            The dappled fawns fawning, the fallow-deer following,
            The swallows and flies, flying and swallowing;

            Cockchafers, henchafers, cockioli-birds,
            Cockroaches, henroaches, cuckoos in herds.

            The spider forgot and followed him spinning,
            And lost all his thread from end to beginning.

            The gay wasp forgot his rings and his waist,
            He never had made such undignified haste.

            The dragon-flies melted to mist with their hurrying.
            The mole in his moleskins left his barrowing burrowing.

            The bees went buzzing, so busy and beesy,
            And the midges in columns so upright and easy.

            But Little Boy Blue was not content,
            Calling for followers still as he went,

            Blowing his horn, and beating his drum,
            And crying aloud
He said to the shadows
And the shadows began to flicker and flee,

            And they flew through the wood all flattering and fluttering,
            Over the dead leaves flickering and muttering.

            And he said to the wind
And the wind wound round at his desire,
            As if he had been the gold cock on the spire.

            And the cock itself flew down from the church,
            And left the farmers all in the lurch.

            They run and they fly, they creep and they come,
            Everything, everything, all and some.

            The very trees they tugged at their roots,
            Only their feet were too fast in their boots,

            After him leaning and straining and bending,
            As on through their boles he kept walking and wending,

            Till out of the wood he burst on a lea,
            Shouting and calling
And then they rose up with a leafy hiss,
            And stood as if nothing had been amiss.

            Little Boy Blue sat down on a stone,
            And the creatures came round him every one.

            And he said to the clouds
And down they sank through the thin blue air.

            And he said to the sunset far in the West
And the sunset came and stood up on the wold,
            And burned and glowed in purple and gold.

            Then Little Boy Blue began to ponder
Then Little Boy Blue, he said, quite low
Then the clouds clodded down till dismal it grew;
            The snake sneaked close; round Birdie Brown flew;

            The brook sat up like a snake on its tail;
            And the wind came up with a what-will-you wail;

            And all the creatures sat and stared;
            The mole opened his very eyes and glared;

            And for rats and bats and the world and his wife,
            Little Boy Blue was afraid of his life.

            Then Birdie Brown began to sing,
            And what he sang was the very thing
said Little Boy Blue
Sang Birdie Brown
with sob and with sigh,
            Said Little Boy Blue, and began to cry.

            But before he got far, he thought of a thing;
            And up he stood, and spoke like a king
The sunset stood at the gates of the west.
            "Follow me, follow me" came from Birdie Brown's breast
Said the brook, as it sank and turned and ran.

            Back to the woods fled the shadows like ghosts
Said the wind with a voice that had changed its cheer
said the sack-backed squirrel,
            And he turned his sack with a swing and a swirl.

            Said the cock of the spire
Said the brook running faster
Said the mole
Said they all
said Little Boy Blue
He rose; and up rose the snake on its tail,
            And hissed three times, half a hiss, half a wail.

            Little Boy Blue he tried to go past him;
            But wherever he turned, sat the snake and faced him
he said
The snake he neither would go nor come;
            So he hit him hard with the stick of his drum.

            The snake fell down as if he were dead,
            And Little Boy Blue set his foot on his head.

            And all the creatures they marched before him,
            And marshalled him home with a high cockolorum.

            And Birdie Brown sang Twirrrr twitter twirrrr twee --
            Apples and cherries, roses and honey;
            Little Boy Blue has listened to me --
            All so jolly and funny
DIAMOND managed with many blunders to read this rhyme to his mother
he said
she answered
returned Diamond
she said.

"I wonder if it's the same boy -- yes, it must be the same -- Little Boy
Blue, you know. Let me see -- how does that rhyme go?

Little Boy Blue, come blow me your horn --

Yes, of course it is -- for this one went &bquo;blowing his horn and beating
his drum.' He had a drum too.

            Little Boy Blue, come blow me your horn;
            The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn,

He had to keep them out, you know. But he wasn't minding his work. It
goes --

            Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
            He's under the haystack, fast asleep.

There, you see, mother! And then, let me see --

            Who'll go and wake him?  No, not I;
            For if I do, he'll be sure to cry.

So I suppose nobody did wake him. He was a rather cross little boy,
I daresay, when woke up. And when he did wake of himself, and saw the
mischief the cow had done to the corn, instead of running home to his
mother, he ran away into the wood and lost himself. Don't you think
that's very likely, mother
she answered
said his mother to herself; and then added aloud,
finding that Diamond did not go on
His mother looked uneasy. Diamond smiled full in her face, and added
This did little to reassure his mother; and lest my reader should have
his qualms about it too, I venture to remind him once more that Diamond
had been to the back of the north wind.

Finding she made no reply, Diamond went on
But before the week was out, he had another reason for going to Mr.
Raymond.

For three days, on each of which, at one time or other, Diamond's father
was on the same stand near the National Gallery, the girl was not at her
crossing, and Diamond got quite anxious about her, fearing she must be
ill. On the fourth day, not seeing her yet, he said to his father, who
had that moment shut the door of his cab upon a fare
said his father
So saying he climbed on his box and drove off.

He had great confidence in his boy, you see, and would trust him
anywhere. But if he had known the kind of place in which the girl lived,
he would perhaps have thought twice before he allowed him to go alone.
Diamond, who did know something of it, had not, however, any fear. From
talking to the girl he had a good notion of where about it was, and he
remembered the address well enough; so by asking his way some twenty
times, mostly of policemen, he came at length pretty near the place. The
last policeman he questioned looked down upon him from the summit of six
feet two inches, and replied with another question, but kindly
No sir" answered Diamond
said the policeman
answered Diamond
Diamond told him plainly what he was about, and of course the man
believed him, for nobody ever disbelieved Diamond. People might think he
was mistaken, but they never thought he was telling a story
said the policeman
asked Diamond
said Diamond
said Diamond
said the man, and gave him full directions.

Diamond set off, never suspecting that the policeman, who was a
kind-hearted man, with children of his own, was following him close, and
watching him round every corner. As he went on, all at once he thought
he remembered the place, and whether it really was so, or only that
he had laid up the policeman's instructions well in his mind, he went
straight for the cellar of old Sal
said the
man to himself
Happily then for Diamond, old Sal had gone out to get some gin. When
he came to her door at the bottom of the area-stair and knocked, he
received no answer. He laid his ear to the door, and thought he heard
a moaning within. So he tried the door, and found it was not locked! It
was a dreary place indeed,-- and very dark, for the window was below the
level of the street, and covered with mud, while over the grating which
kept people from falling into the area, stood a chest of drawers, placed
there by a dealer in second-hand furniture, which shut out almost all
the light. And the smell in the place was dreadful. Diamond stood still
for a while, for he could see next to nothing, but he heard the moaning
plainly enough now, When he got used to the darkness, he discovered his
friend lying with closed eyes and a white suffering face on a heap of
little better than rags in a corner of the den. He went up to her and
spoke; but she made him no answer. Indeed, she was not in the least
aware of his presence, and Diamond saw that he could do nothing for her
without help. So taking a lump of barley-sugar from his pocket, which he
had bought for her as he came along, and laying it beside her, he
left the place, having already made up his mind to go and see the tall
gentleman, Mr. Raymond, and ask him to do something for Sal's Nanny, as
the girl was called.

By the time he got up the area-steps, three or four women who had seen
him go down were standing together at the top waiting for him. They
wanted his clothes for their children; but they did not follow him down
lest Sal should find them there. The moment he appeared, they laid their
hands on him, and all began talking at once, for each wanted to get some
advantage over her neighbours. He told them quite quietly, for he was
not frightened, that he had come to see what was the matter with Nanny
said one of them fiercely
said Diamond
she said, with a rough
laugh
They all began to tug at the jacket, while Diamond stooped and kept his
arms bent to resist them. Before they had done him or the jacket any
harm, however, suddenly they all scampered away; and Diamond, looking in
the opposite direction, saw the tall policeman coming towards him
he said, looking
down in Diamond's face, which was flushed with his resistance
returned Diamond
Perhaps the answer was deeper in purport than either Diamond or the
policeman knew. They walked away together, Diamond telling his new
friend how ill poor Nanny was, and that he was going to let the tall
gentleman know. The policeman put him in the nearest way for Bloomsbury,
and stepping out in good earnest, Diamond reached Mr. Raymond's door
in less than an hour. When he asked if he was at home, the servant, in
return, asked what he wanted
Diamond stared with astonishment for one moment, then answered
But this man was made of coarser grain than the policeman, and, instead
of seeing that Diamond could not tell a lie, he put his answer down as
impudence, and saying
shut the door in his face.

Diamond turned and sat down on the doorstep, thinking with himself that
the tall gentleman must either come in or come out, and he was therefore
in the best possible position for finding him. He had not waited long
before the door opened again; but when he looked round, it was only the
servant once more.

"Get, away" he said
answered Diamond, getting up
returned Diamond, sitting down again
with a smile.

What the man would have done next I do not know, but a step sounded from
the hall, and when Diamond looked round yet again, there was the tall
gentleman
he asked
Please sir" said Diamond
said Mr. Raymond
Then Diamond told him all.

Now Mr. Raymond was one of the kindest men in London. He sent at once to
have the horse put to the brougham, took Diamond with him, and drove to
the Children's Hospital. There he was well known to everybody, for he
was not only a large subscriber, but he used to go and tell the children
stories of an afternoon. One of the doctors promised to go and find
Nanny, and do what could be done -- have her brought to the hospital, if
possible.

That same night they sent a litter for her, and as she could be of no
use to old Sal until she was better, she did not object to having her
removed. So she was soon lying in the fever ward -- for the first time in
her life in a nice clean bed. But she knew nothing of the whole affair.
She was too ill to know anything
MR. RAYMOND took Diamond home with him, stopping at the Mews to tell his
mother that he would send him back soon. Diamond ran in with the message
himself, and when he reappeared he had in his hand the torn and crumpled
book which North Wind had given him
said Mr. Raymond
said Diamond
answered Mr. Raymond
Still with a good many blunders, Diamond did read it after a fashion.
Mr. Raymond took the little book and read it over again.

Now Mr. Raymond was a poet himself, and so, although he had never been
at the back of the north wind, he was able to understand the poem pretty
well. But before saying anything about it, he read it over aloud, and
Diamond thought he understood it much better already
he then said
said Diamond
returned Mr. Raymond
cried Diamond
triumphantly.

A good deal more talk followed, and Mr. Raymond gave Diamond his
sixpence
he asked
he answered
said Diamond
added
Mr. Raymond, wishing Diamond to understand that he was the author of the
book
said Mr. Raymond
said the poet to himself
Now if any of my child readers want to know what a genius is -- shall
I try to tell them, or shall I not? I will give them one very short
answer: it means one who understands things without any other body
telling him what they mean. God makes a few such now and then to teach
the rest of us
asked Mr. Raymond, turning over the leaves of his
own book
said Diamond
Mr. Raymond liked the old-fashioned riddle best, and had written a
few -- one of which he now read.

            I have only one foot, but thousands of toes;
            My one foot stands, but never goes.
            I have many arms, and they're mighty all;
            And hundreds of fingers, large and small.
            From the ends of my fingers my beauty grows.
            I breathe with my hair, and I drink with my toes.
            I grow bigger and bigger about the waist,
            And yet I am always very tight laced.
            None e'er saw me eat -- I've no mouth to bite;
            Yet I eat all day in the full sunlight.
            In the summer with song I shave and quiver,
            But in winter I fast and groan and shiver
he asked, when he had finished
answered Diamond
said Mr. Raymond, giving him the book
If Diamond had had to find out the riddle in order to see Mr. Raymond
again, I doubt if he would ever have seen him
I think I hear some little reader say
I answer
And if you do not
understand that, I am afraid you must be content to wait till you grow
older and know more
WHEN Diamond got home he found his father at home already, sitting by
the fire and looking rather miserable, for his head ached and he felt
sick. He had been doing night work of late, and it had not agreed with
him, so he had given it up, but not in time, for he had taken some
kind of fever. The next day he was forced to keep his bed, and his wife
nursed him, and Diamond attended to the baby. If he had not been ill,
it would have been delightful to have him at home; and the first day
Diamond sang more songs than ever to the baby, and his father listened
with some pleasure. But the next he could not bear even Diamond's sweet
voice, and was very ill indeed; so Diamond took the baby into his own
room, and had no end of quiet games with him there. If he did pull
all his bedding on the floor, it did not matter, for he kept baby very
quiet, and made the bed himself again, and slept in it with baby all the
next night, and many nights after.

But long before his father got well, his mother's savings were all but
gone. She did not say a word about it in the hearing of her husband,
lest she should distress him; and one night, when she could not help
crying, she came into Diamond's room that his father might not hear
her. She thought Diamond was asleep, but he was not. When he heard her
sobbing, he was frightened, and said
she answered, as well as she could
she replied
said his mother heedlessly, thinking only of what she
should do after to-morrow.

Diamond began and repeated the poem, for he had a wonderful memory.

            A little bird sat on the edge of her nest;
               Her yellow-beaks slept as sound as tops;
            That day she had done her very best,
               And had filled every one of their little crops.
            She had filled her own just over-full,
               And hence she was feeling a little dull
she sighed, as she sat with her head
               Sunk in her chest, and no neck at all,
            While her crop stuck out like a feather bed
               Turned inside out, and rather small
said a wee, wee bird,
               Which woke at the voice of his mother's pain
And with the word
               He tucked in his head, and went off again
sighed his mother
The yellow-beaks they slept on and on --
               They never had heard of the bogy To-morrow;
            But the mother sat outside, making her moan --
               She'll soon have to beg, or steal, or borrow.
            For she never can tell the night before,
            Where she shall find one red worm more.

            The fact, as I say, was, she'd had too many;
               She couldn't sleep, and she called it virtue,
            Motherly foresight, affection, any
               Name you may call it that will not hurt you,
            So it was late ere she tucked her head in,
            And she slept so late it was almost a sin.

            But the little fellow who knew of five
               Nor troubled his head about any more,
            Woke very early, felt quite alive,
               And wanted a sixth to add to his store:
            He pushed his mother, the greedy elf,
            Then thought he had better try for himself.

            When his mother awoke and had rubbed her eyes,
               Feeling less like a bird, and more like a mole,
            She saw him -- fancy with what surprise --
               Dragging a huge worm out of a hole!
            'Twas of this same hero the proverb took form:
            'Tis the early bird that catches the worm.


"There, mother!" said Diamond, as he finished; "ain't it funny?"

"I wish you were like that little bird, Diamond, and could catch worms
for yourself," said his mother, as she rose to go and look after her
husband.

Diamond lay awake for a few minutes, thinking what he could do to catch
worms. It was very little trouble to make up his mind, however, and
still less to go to sleep after it
HE GOT up in the morning as soon as he heard the men moving in the yard.
He tucked in his little brother so that he could not tumble out of bed,
and then went out, leaving the door open, so that if he should cry his
mother might hear him at once. When he got into the yard he found the
stable-door just opened
he said to himself
He would not ask any one to help him, fearing his project might meet
with disapproval and opposition. With great difficulty, but with the
help of a broken chair he brought down from his bedroom, he managed to
put the harness on Diamond. If the old horse had had the least objection
to the proceeding, of course he could not have done it; but even when it
came to the bridle, he opened his mouth for the bit, just as if he had
been taking the apple which Diamond sometimes gave him. He fastened the
cheek-strap very carefully, just in the usual hole, for fear of choking
his friend, or else letting the bit get amongst his teeth. It was a job
to get the saddle on; but with the chair he managed it. If old Diamond
had had an education in physics to equal that of the camel, he would
have knelt down to let him put it on his back, but that was more than
could be expected of him, and then Diamond had to creep quite under him
to get hold of the girth. The collar was almost the worst part of the
business; but there Diamond could help Diamond. He held his head very
low till his little master had got it over and turned it round, and
then he lifted his head, and shook it on to his shoulders. The yoke was
rather difficult; but when he had laid the traces over the horse's neck,
the weight was not too much for him. He got him right at last, and led
him out of the stable.

By this time there were several of the men watching him, but they would
not interfere, they were so anxious to see how he would get over the
various difficulties. They followed him as far as the stable-door, and
there stood watching him again as he put the horse between the shafts,
got them up one after the other into the loops, fastened the traces, the
belly-band, the breeching, and the reins.

Then he got his whip. The moment he mounted the box, the men broke into
a hearty cheer of delight at his success. But they would not let him go
without a general inspection of the harness; and although they found it
right, for not a buckle had to be shifted, they never allowed him to do
it for himself again all the time his father was ill.

The cheer brought his mother to the window, and there she saw her little
boy setting out alone with the cab in the gray of morning. She tugged at
the window, but it was stiff; and before she could open it, Diamond, who
was in a great hurry, was out of the mews, and almost out of the street.
She called
but there was no answer except from Jack
said Jack
she answered, closing the window in
some fear lest her husband should have been made anxious by the news
of Diamond's expedition. He knew pretty well, however, what his boy
was capable of, and although not quite easy was less anxious than
his mother. But as the evening drew on, the anxiety of both of them
increased, and every sound of wheels made his father raise himself in
his bed, and his mother peep out of the window.

Diamond had resolved to go straight to the cab-stand where he was best
known, and never to crawl for fear of getting annoyed by idlers. Before
he got across Oxford Street, however, he was hailed by a man who wanted
to catch a train, and was in too great a hurry to think about the
driver. Having carried him to King's Cross in good time, and got a good
fare in return, he set off again in great spirits, and reached the stand
in safety. He was the first there after all.

As the men arrived they all greeted him kindly, and inquired after his
father
asked one
answered Diamond
said the man
said Diamond
In the course of the day one man did try to cut him out, but he was a
stranger; and the shout the rest of them raised let him see it would not
do, and made him so far ashamed besides, that he went away crawling.

Once, in a block, a policeman came up to him, and asked him for his
number. Diamond showed him his father's badge, saying with a smile
said the policeman
said Diamond
said the man
asked Diamond, with his usual smile, and turning
his head like a little bird
said Diamond
The policeman did as Diamond told him, and was soon satisfied that the
little fellow could drive
he said, as he got down again
said Diamond, and drove away.

In a few minutes a gentleman hailed him
he asked.

"Yes, sir" said Diamond, showing his badge, of which, he was proud
said Diamond
said the gentleman; and, opening the door himself, he
jumped in.

He was going a good distance, and soon found that Diamond got him over
the ground well. Now when Diamond had only to go straight ahead, and had
not to mind so much what he was about, his thoughts always turned to the
riddle Mr. Raymond had set him; and this gentleman looked so clever that
he fancied he must be able to read it for him. He had given up all hope
of finding it out for himself, and he could not plague his father about
it when he was ill. He had thought of the answer himself, but fancied it
could not be the right one, for to see how it all fitted required some
knowledge of physiology. So, when he reached the end of his journey, he
got down very quickly, and with his head just looking in at the window,
said, as the gentleman gathered his gloves and newspapers
answered the gentleman, amused.

Diamond repeated the riddle
he returned
he
answered
returned Diamond
Diamond gave him a stare which came from the very back of the north
wind, where that kind of thing is unknown
he said at last
said Diamond
As Diamond returned, he drew up at a stand he had never been on before:
it was time to give Diamond his bag of chopped beans and oats. The men
got about him, and began to chaff him. He took it all good-humouredly,
until one of them, who was an ill-conditioned fellow, began to tease old
Diamond by poking him roughly in the ribs, and making general game of
him. That he could not bear, and the tears came in his eyes. He undid
the nose-bag, put it in the boot, and was just going to mount and drive
away, when the fellow interfered, and would not let him get up. Diamond
endeavoured to persuade him, and was very civil, but he would have his
fun out of him, as he said. In a few minutes a group of idle boys had
assembled, and Diamond found himself in a very uncomfortable position.
Another cab drew up at the stand, and the driver got off and approached
the assemblage
he asked, and Diamond knew the voice. It was that of
the drunken cabman
said his
enemy
The drunken cabman was a tall, stout man, who did not look one to take
liberties with
said the other, drawing back.

Diamond got out the nose-bag again. Old Diamond should have his feed out
now
When Diamond went home at night, he carried with him one pound one
shilling and sixpence, besides a few coppers extra, which had followed
some of the fares.

His mother had got very anxious indeed -- so much so that she was almost
afraid, when she did hear the sound of his cab, to go and look, lest
she should be yet again disappointed, and should break down before her
husband. But there was the old horse, and there was the cab all right,
and there was Diamond in the box, his pale face looking triumphant as a
full moon in the twilight.

When he drew up at the stable-door, Jack came out, and after a good many
friendly questions and congratulations, said
said Diamond, and bounded into the house, and into
the arms of his mother, who was waiting him at the top of the stair.

The poor, anxious woman led him into his own room, sat down on his bed,
took him on her lap as if he had been a baby, and cried
asked Diamond, almost afraid to ask
she answered
said his
mother, beginning to get better
answered Diamond, so very quietly that his
mother held his head back and stared in his face
she said, and said no more
resumed Diamond.

But to see her face as he poured the shillings and sixpences and pence
into her lap! She burst out crying a second time, and ran with the money
to her husband.

And how pleased he was! It did him no end of good. But while he was
counting the coins, Diamond turned to baby, who was lying awake in his
cradle, sucking his precious thumb, and took him up, saying
And then he began to sing to him as usual. And what he sang was this,
for he was too happy either to make a song of his own or to sing sense.
It was one out of Mr. Raymond's book.


THE TRUE STORY OF THE CAT AND THE FIDDLE

               Hey, diddle, diddle!
               The cat and the fiddle!
            He played such a merry tune,
               That the cow went mad
               With the pleasure she had,
            And jumped right over the moon.
               But then, don't you see?
               Before that could be,
            The moon had come down and listened.
               The little dog hearkened,
               So loud that he barkened
Hey, diddle, diddle!
               Went the cat and the fiddle,
            Hey diddle, diddle, dee, dee!
               The dog laughed at the sport
               Till his cough cut him short,
            It was hey diddle, diddle, oh me!
               And back came the cow
               With a merry, merry low,
            For she'd humbled the man in the moon.
               The dish got excited,
               The spoon was delighted,
            And the dish waltzed away with the spoon.

               But the man in the moon,
               Coming back too soon
            From the famous town of Norwich,
               Caught up the dish,
               Said
Gave the cow a rat-tat,
               Flung water on the cat,
            And sent him away like a rocket.
               Said
Got into her car,
            And went off with the spoon in his pocket

               Hey ho!  diddle, diddle!
               The wet cat and wet fiddle,
            They made such a caterwauling,
               That the cow in a fright
               Stood bolt upright
            Bellowing now, and bawling;
               And the dog on his tail,
               Stretched his neck with a wail.
            But
said the man in the moon
said Diamond
said his father from the
bed
said his mother,
whose pride in her boy was even greater than her joy in the shillings.
Both of them together made her heart ache, for pleasure can do that as
well as pain
said Diamond
answered his mother
She was thinking more of her
twenty-one shillings and sixpence, and of the nice dinner she would get
for her sick husband next day, than of the angels and their nonsense,
when she said it. But Diamond found her answer all right
he replied
Diamond chattered away. What rose in his happy little heart ran out
of his mouth, and did his father and mother good. When he went to bed,
which he did early, being more tired, as you may suppose, than usual, he
was still thinking what the nonsense could be like which the angels
sang when they were too happy to sing sense. But before coming to
any conclusion he fell fast asleep. And no wonder, for it must be
acknowledged a difficult question.

That night he had a very curious dream which I think my readers would
like to have told them. They would, at least, if they are as fond of
nice dreams as I am, and don't have enough of them of their own.

He dreamed that he was running about in the twilight in the old garden.
He thought he was waiting for North Wind, but she did not come. So he
would run down to the back gate, and see if she were there. He ran and
ran. It was a good long garden out of his dream, but in his dream it
had grown so long and spread out so wide that the gate he wanted was
nowhere. He ran and ran, but instead of coming to the gate found himself
in a beautiful country, not like any country he had ever been in before.
There were no trees of any size; nothing bigger in fact than hawthorns,
which were full of may-blossom. The place in which they grew was wild
and dry, mostly covered with grass, but having patches of heath. It
extended on every side as far as he could see. But although it was so
wild, yet wherever in an ordinary heath you might have expected furze
bushes, or holly, or broom, there grew roses -- wild and rare -- all kinds.
On every side, far and near, roses were glowing. There too was the
gum-cistus, whose flowers fall every night and come again the next
morning, lilacs and syringas and laburnums, and many shrubs besides,
of which he did not know the names; but the roses were everywhere. He
wandered on and on, wondering when it would come to an end. It was of no
use going back, for there was no house to be seen anywhere. But he was
not frightened, for you know Diamond was used to things that were
rather out of the way. He threw himself down under a rose-bush, and fell
asleep.

He woke, not out of his dream, but into it, thinking he heard a child's
voice, calling
He jumped up, but all was still about
him. The rose-bushes were pouring out their odours in clouds. He could
see the scent like mists of the same colour as the rose, issuing like
a slow fountain and spreading in the air till it joined the thin rosy
vapour which hung over all the wilderness. But again came the voice
calling him, and it seemed to come from over his head. He looked up, but
saw only the deep blue sky full of stars -- more brilliant, however, than
he had seen them before; and both sky and stars looked nearer to the
earth.

While he gazed up, again he heard the cry. At the same moment he saw one
of the biggest stars over his head give a kind of twinkle and jump,
as if it went out and came in again. He threw himself on his back,
and fixed his eyes upon it. Nor had he gazed long before it went out,
leaving something like a scar in the blue. But as he went on gazing he
saw a face where the star had been -- a merry face, with bright eyes.
The eyes appeared not only to see Diamond, but to know that Diamond had
caught sight of them, for the face withdrew the same moment. Again came
the voice, calling
and in jumped the star to its
place.

Diamond called as loud as he could, right up into the sky
The next instant many of the stars round about that one went out, and
many voices shouted from the sky
This was followed by a peal of the merriest, kindliest laughter, and all
the stars jumped into their places again
shouted Diamond
said the first voice.

Diamond got up at once, and walked to the other side of the rose-bush.

There he found what seemed the very opposite of what he wanted -- a stair
down into the earth. It was of turf and moss. It did not seem to promise
well for getting into the sky, but Diamond had learned to look through
the look of things. The voice must have meant that he was to go down
this stair; and down this stair Diamond went, without waiting to think
more about it.

It was such a nice stair, so cool and soft -- all the sides as well as the
steps grown with moss and grass and ferns! Down and down Diamond went -- a
long way, until at last he heard the gurgling and splashing of a little
stream; nor had he gone much farther before he met it -- yes, met it
coming up the stairs to meet him, running up just as naturally as if
it had been doing the other thing. Neither was Diamond in the least
surprised to see it pitching itself from one step to another as it
climbed towards him: he never thought it was odd -- and no more it was,
there. It would have been odd here. It made a merry tune as it came, and
its voice was like the laughter he had heard from the sky. This appeared
promising; and he went on, down and down the stair, and up and up the
stream, till at last he came where it hurried out from under a stone,
and the stair stopped altogether. And as the stream bubbled up, the
stone shook and swayed with its force; and Diamond thought he would try
to lift it. Lightly it rose to his hand, forced up by the stream from
below; and, by what would have seemed an unaccountable perversion of
things had he been awake, threatened to come tumbling upon his head.
But he avoided it, and when it fell, got upon it. He now saw that the
opening through which the water came pouring in was over his head, and
with the help of the stone he scrambled out by it, and found himself
on the side of a grassy hill which rounded away from him in every
direction, and down which came the brook which vanished in the hole.
But scarcely had he noticed so much as this before a merry shouting and
laughter burst upon him, and a number of naked little boys came running,
every one eager to get to him first. At the shoulders of each fluttered
two little wings, which were of no use for flying, as they were mere
buds; only being made for it they could not help fluttering as if they
were flying. Just as the foremost of the troop reached him, one or two
of them fell, and the rest with shouts of laughter came tumbling over
them till they heaped up a mound of struggling merriment. One after
another they extricated themselves, and each as he got free threw his
arms round Diamond and kissed him. Diamond's heart was ready to melt
within him from clear delight. When they had all embraced him
cried one, and with a shout they all
scampered hither and thither, and played the wildest gambols on the
grassy slopes. They kept constantly coming back to Diamond, however, as
the centre of their enjoyment, rejoicing over him as if they had found a
lost playmate.

There was a wind on the hillside which blew like the very embodiment
of living gladness. It blew into Diamond's heart, and made him so happy
that he was forced to sit down and cry
said one who seemed to be the captain
of the troop.

They all scurried away, but soon returned, one after another, each with
a pickaxe on his shoulder and a spade in his hand. As soon as they were
gathered, the captain led them in a straight line to another part of the
hill. Diamond rose and followed
he said
There was no more fun. Each went by himself, walking slowly with bent
shoulders and his eyes fixed on the ground. Every now and then one would
stop, kneel down, and look intently, feeling with his hands and parting
the grass. One would get up and walk on again, another spring to his
feet, catch eagerly at his pickaxe and strike it into the ground once
and again, then throw it aside, snatch up his spade, and commence
digging at the loosened earth. Now one would sorrowfully shovel the
earth into the hole again, trample it down with his little bare white
feet, and walk on. But another would give a joyful shout, and after
much tugging and loosening would draw from the hole a lump as big as his
head, or no bigger than his fist; when the under side of it would pour
such a blaze of golden or bluish light into Diamond's eyes that he was
quite dazzled. Gold and blue were the commoner colours: the jubilation
was greater over red or green or purple. And every time a star was
dug up all the little angels dropped their tools and crowded about it,
shouting and dancing and fluttering their wing-buds.

When they had examined it well, they would kneel down one after the
other and peep through the hole; but they always stood back to give
Diamond the first look. All that diamond could report, however, was,
that through the star-holes he saw a great many things and places and
people he knew quite well, only somehow they were different -- there was
something marvellous about them -- he could not tell what. Every time he
rose from looking through a star-hole, he felt as if his heart would
break for, joy; and he said that if he had not cried, he did not know
what would have become of him.

As soon as all had looked, the star was carefully fitted in again, a
little mould was strewn over it, and the rest of the heap left as a sign
that the star had been discovered.

At length one dug up a small star of a most lovely colour -- a colour
Diamond had never seen before. The moment the angel saw what it was,
instead of showing it about, he handed it to one of his neighbours, and
seated himself on the edge of the hole, saying
They crowded about him, hugging and kissing him; then stood back with a
solemn stillness, their wings lying close to their shoulders. The little
fellow looked round on them once with a smile, and then shot himself
headlong through the star-hole. Diamond, as privileged, threw himself
on the ground to peep after him, but he saw nothing
said
the captain
said Diamond, concerned and fearful, yet
comforted by the calm looks of the rest
said the captain
said Diamond
said the captain
he added, after a pause
Then they looked again at the star, put it carefully into its hole,
danced around it and over it -- but solemnly, and called it by the name of
the finder
asked Diamond
Then they went on with their searching and digging.

Diamond having neither pickaxe nor spade, had the more time to think
he said at last.

The captain stopped his shovelling, leaned on his spade, rubbed his
forehead thoughtfully with his left hand -- the little angels were all
left-handed -- repeated the words
and then, as if a
thought had struck him, resumed his work, saying
thought Diamond
he asked the captain
answered the captain
Even as he spoke, he dropped his spade. He tumbled down beside it,
and lay fast asleep. One after the other each of the troop dropped his
pickaxe or shovel from his listless hands, and lay fast asleep by his
work
thought Diamond to himself, with delight
But the same moment he felt himself growing sleepy. He struggled hard
with the invading power. He put up his fingers to his eyelids and pulled
them open. But it was of no use. He thought he saw a glimmer of pale
rosy light far up the green hill, and ceased to know.

When he awoke, all the angels were starting up wide awake too. He
expected to see them lift their tools, but no, the time for play had
come. They looked happier than ever, and each began to sing where he
stood. He had not heard them sing before
he thought
And he did hear some of the angels' nonsense; for if it was all sense to
them, it had only just as much sense to Diamond as made good nonsense of
it. He tried hard to set it down in his mind, listening as closely as
he could, now to one, now to another, and now to all together. But
while they were yet singing he began, to his dismay, to find that he was
coming awake -- faster and faster. And as he came awake, he found that,
for all the goodness of his memory, verse after verse of the angels'
nonsense vanished from it. He always thought he could keep the last,
but as the next began he lost the one before it, and at length awoke,
struggling to keep hold of the last verse of all. He felt as if the
effort to keep from forgetting that one verse of the vanishing song
nearly killed him. And yet by the time he was wide awake he could not be
sure of that even. It was something like this:


         White hands of whiteness
           Wash the stars' faces,
         Till glitter, glitter, glit, goes their brightness
           Down to poor places.


This, however, was so near sense that he thought it could not be really
what they did sing
THE next morning Diamond was up almost as early as before. He had
nothing to fear from his mother now, and made no secret of what he was
about. By the time he reached the stable, several of the men were there.
They asked him a good many questions as to his luck the day before, and
he told them all they wanted to know. But when he proceeded to harness
the old horse, they pushed him aside with rough kindness, called him a
baby, and began to do it all for him. So Diamond ran in and had another
mouthful of tea and bread and butter; and although he had never been so
tired as he was the night before, he started quite fresh this morning.
It was a cloudy day, and the wind blew hard from the north -- so hard
sometimes that, perched on the box with just his toes touching the
ground, Diamond wished that he had some kind of strap to fasten himself
down with lest he should be blown away. But he did not really mind it.

His head was full of the dream he had dreamed; but it did not make him
neglect his work, for his work was not to dig stars but to drive old
Diamond and pick up fares. There are not many people who can think about
beautiful things and do common work at the same time. But then there are
not many people who have been to the back of the north wind.

There was not much business doing. And Diamond felt rather cold,
notwithstanding his mother had herself put on his comforter and helped
him with his greatcoat. But he was too well aware of his dignity to
get inside his cab as some do. A cabman ought to be above minding the
weather -- at least so Diamond thought. At length he was called to a
neighbouring house, where a young woman with a heavy box had to be taken
to Wapping for a coast-steamer.

He did not find it at all pleasant, so far east and so near the river;
for the roughs were in great force. However, there being no block, not
even in Nightingale Lane, he reached the entrance of the wharf, and set
down his passenger without annoyance. But as he turned to go back, some
idlers, not content with chaffing him, showed a mind to the fare the
young woman had given him. They were just pulling him off the box, and
Diamond was shouting for the police, when a pale-faced man, in very
shabby clothes, but with the look of a gentleman somewhere about him,
came up, and making good use of his stick, drove them off
he said
But Diamond was not in the habit of thinking only of himself. He saw
that his new friend looked weary, if not ill, and very poor
he said
So saying, he opened the door and got in, and Diamond drove away.

But as he drove, he could not help fancying he had seen the
gentleman -- for Diamond knew he was a gentleman -- before. Do all he could,
however, he could not recall where or when. Meantime his fare, if we may
call him such, seeing he was to pay nothing, whom the relief of being
carried had made less and less inclined to carry himself, had been
turning over things in his mind, and, as they passed the Mint, called to
Diamond, who stopped the horse, got down and went to the window
Very well, sir" said Diamond
He was just clambering up again, when the gentleman put his head out of
the window and said
It flashed upon Diamond who he was. But he got upon his box to arrange
his thoughts before making any reply.

The gentleman was Mr. Evans, to whom Miss Coleman was to have been
married, and Diamond had seen him several times with her in the garden.
I have said that he had not behaved very well to Miss Coleman. He had
put off their marriage more than once in a cowardly fashion, merely
because he was ashamed to marry upon a small income, and live in a
humble way. When a man thinks of what people will say in such a case, he
may love, but his love is but a poor affair. Mr. Coleman took him
into the firm as a junior partner, and it was in a measure through his
influence that he entered upon those speculations which ruined him. So
his love had not been a blessing. The ship which North Wind had sunk was
their last venture, and Mr. Evans had gone out with it in the hope
of turning its cargo to the best advantage. He was one of the single
boat-load which managed to reach a desert island, and he had gone
through a great many hardships and sufferings since then. But he was
not past being taught, and his troubles had done him no end of good, for
they had made him doubt himself, and begin to think, so that he had come
to see that he had been foolish as well as wicked. For, if he had had
Miss Coleman with him in the desert island, to build her a hut, and hunt
for her food, and make clothes for her, he would have thought himself
the most fortunate of men; and when he was at home, he would not marry
till he could afford a man-servant. Before he got home again, he had
even begun to understand that no man can make haste to be rich without
going against the will of God, in which case it is the one frightful
thing to be successful. So he had come back a more humble man, and
longing to ask Miss Coleman to forgive him. But he had no idea what
ruin had fallen upon them, for he had never made himself thoroughly
acquainted with the firm's affairs. Few speculative people do know their
own affairs. Hence he never doubted he should find matters much as he
left them, and expected to see them all at The Wilderness as before. But
if he had not fallen in with Diamond, he would not have thought of going
there first.

What was Diamond to do? He had heard his father and mother drop
some remarks concerning Mr. Evans which made him doubtful of him. He
understood that he had not been so considerate as he might have been.
So he went rather slowly till he should make up his mind. It was, of
course, of no use to drive Mr. Evans to Chiswick. But if he should tell
him what had befallen them, and where they lived now, he might put off
going to see them, and he was certain that Miss Coleman, at least, must
want very much to see Mr. Evans. He was pretty sure also that the best
thing in any case was to bring them together, and let them set matters
right for themselves.

The moment he came to this conclusion, he changed his course from
westward to northward, and went straight for Mr. Coleman's poor little
house in Hoxton. Mr. Evans was too tired and too much occupied with his
thoughts to take the least notice of the streets they passed through,
and had no suspicion, therefore, of the change of direction.

By this time the wind had increased almost to a hurricane, and as they
had often to head it, it was no joke for either of the Diamonds. The
distance, however, was not great. Before they reached the street where
Mr. Coleman lived it blew so tremendously, that when Miss Coleman, who
was going out a little way, opened the door, it dashed against the wall
with such a bang, that she was afraid to venture, and went in again.
In five minutes after, Diamond drew up at the door. As soon as he had
entered the street, however, the wind blew right behind them, and when
he pulled up, old Diamond had so much ado to stop the cab against it,
that the breeching broke. Young Diamond jumped off his box, knocked
loudly at the door, then turned to the cab and said -- before Mr. Evans
had quite begun to think something must be amiss
Half stupid with fatigue and want of food, Mr. Evans yielded to the
boy's suggestion, and walked in at the door which the maid held with
difficulty against the wind. She took Mr. Evans for a visitor, as indeed
he was, and showed him into the room on the ground-floor. Diamond, who
had followed into the hall, whispered to her as she closed the door
I don't know" said the maid
The maid could not but remember Diamond, having seen him when he and his
father brought the ladies home. So she believed him, and went to do what
he told her.

What passed in the little parlour when Miss Coleman came down does not
belong to my story, which is all about Diamond. If he had known that
Miss Coleman thought Mr. Evans was dead, perhaps he would have managed
differently. There was a cry and a running to and fro in the house, and
then all was quiet again.

Almost as soon as Mr. Evans went in, the wind began to cease, and was
now still. Diamond found that by making the breeching just a little
tighter than was quite comfortable for the old horse he could do very
well for the present; and, thinking it better to let him have his bag in
this quiet place, he sat on the box till the old horse should have eaten
his dinner. In a little while Mr. Evans came out, and asked him to come
in. Diamond obeyed, and to his delight Miss Coleman put her arms round
him and kissed him, and there was payment for him! Not to mention the
five precious shillings she gave him, which he could not refuse because
his mother wanted them so much at home for his father. He left them
nearly as happy as they were themselves.

The rest of the day he did better, and, although he had not so much
to take home as the day before, yet on the whole the result was
satisfactory. And what a story he had to tell his father and mother
about his adventures, and how he had done, and what was the result! They
asked him such a multitude of questions! some of which he could answer,
and some of which he could not answer; and his father seemed ever so
much better from finding that his boy was already not only useful to his
family but useful to other people, and quite taking his place as a man
who judged what was wise, and did work worth doing.

For a fortnight Diamond went on driving his cab, and keeping his family.
He had begun to be known about some parts of London, and people would
prefer taking his cab because they liked what they heard of him. One
gentleman who lived near the mews engaged him to carry him to the
City every morning at a certain hour; and Diamond was punctual as
clockwork -- though to effect that required a good deal of care, for his
father's watch was not much to be depended on, and had to be watched
itself by the clock of St. George's church. Between the two, however, he
did make a success of it.

After that fortnight, his father was able to go out again. Then Diamond
went to make inquiries about Nanny, and this led to something else
THE first day his father resumed his work, Diamond went with him as
usual. In the afternoon, however, his father, having taken a fare to the
neighbourhood, went home, and Diamond drove the cab the rest of the
day. It was hard for old Diamond to do all the work, but they could
not afford to have another horse. They contrived to save him as much as
possible, and fed him well, and he did bravely.

The next morning his father was so much stronger that Diamond thought he
might go and ask Mr. Raymond to take him to see Nanny. He found him at
home. His servant had grown friendly by this time, and showed him in
without any cross-questioning. Mr. Raymond received him with his usual
kindness, consented at once, and walked with him to the Hospital, which
was close at hand. It was a comfortable old-fashioned house, built in
the reign of Queen Anne, and in her day, no doubt, inhabited by rich and
fashionable people: now it was a home for poor sick children, who were
carefully tended for love's sake. There are regions in London where a
hospital in every other street might be full of such children, whose
fathers and mothers are dead, or unable to take care of them.

When Diamond followed Mr. Raymond into the room where those children who
had got over the worst of their illness and were growing better lay, he
saw a number of little iron bedsteads, with their heads to the walls,
and in every one of them a child, whose face was a story in itself.
In some, health had begun to appear in a tinge upon the cheeks, and a
doubtful brightness in the eyes, just as out of the cold dreary winter
the spring comes in blushing buds and bright crocuses. In others there
were more of the signs of winter left. Their faces reminded you of
snow and keen cutting winds, more than of sunshine and soft breezes
and butterflies; but even in them the signs of suffering told that the
suffering was less, and that if the spring-time had but arrived, it had
yet arrived.

Diamond looked all round, but could see no Nanny. He turned to Mr.
Raymond with a question in his eyes
said Mr. Raymond
said Diamond
He pointed to a bed right in front of where Diamond was standing
he said
thought
Diamond, but he said nothing, only stared; and as he stared, something
of the old Nanny began to dawn through the face of the new Nanny. The
old Nanny, though a good girl, and a friendly girl, had been rough,
blunt in her speech, and dirty in her person. Her face would always
have reminded one who had already been to the back of the north wind
of something he had seen in the best of company, but it had been coarse
notwithstanding, partly from the weather, partly from her living amongst
low people, and partly from having to defend herself: now it was so
sweet, and gentle, and refined, that she might have had a lady and
gentleman for a father and mother. And Diamond could not help thinking
of words which he had heard in the church the day before
or something like that. North Wind, somehow or
other, must have had to do with her! She had grown from a rough girl
into a gentle maiden.

Mr. Raymond, however, was not surprised, for he was used to see
such lovely changes -- something like the change which passes upon the
crawling, many-footed creature, when it turns sick and ill, and revives
a butterfly, with two wings instead of many feet. Instead of her having
to take care of herself, kind hands ministered to her, making her
comfortable and sweet and clean, soothing her aching head, and giving
her cooling drink when she was thirsty; and kind eyes, the stars of the
kingdom of heaven, had shone upon her; so that, what with the fire of
the fever and the dew of tenderness, that which was coarse in her had
melted away, and her whole face had grown so refined and sweet that
Diamond did not know her. But as he gazed, the best of the old face, all
the true and good part of it, that which was Nanny herself, dawned upon
him, like the moon coming out of a cloud, until at length, instead of
only believing Mr. Raymond that this was she, he saw for himself that it
was Nanny indeed -- very worn but grown beautiful.

He went up to her. She smiled. He had heard her laugh, but had never
seen her smile before
said Diamond.

She only smiled again, as if the question was amusing.

She was not likely to forget him; for although she did not yet know
it was he who had got her there, she had dreamed of him often, and had
talked much about him when delirious. Nor was it much wonder, for he was
the only boy except Joe who had ever shown her kindness.

Meantime Mr. Raymond was going from bed to bed, talking to the little
people. Every one knew him, and every one was eager to have a look, and
a smile, and a kind word from him.

Diamond sat down on a stool at the head of Nanny's bed. She laid her
hand in his. No one else of her old acquaintance had been near her.

Suddenly a little voice called aloud
cried several little voices which also
were stronger than the rest. For Mr. Raymond was in the habit of telling
them a story when he went to see them, and they enjoyed it far more than
the other nice things which the doctor permitted him to give them
said Mr. Raymond
said one little girl
said a little boy
said Mr. Raymond
exclaimed the little boy who had called out for a fairy
tale
continued Mr.
Raymond
asked one older child
exclaimed several, thinking it very grand to have the first
telling; and I daresay there might be a peculiar freshness about it,
because everything would be nearly as new to the story-teller himself as
to the listeners.

Some were only sitting up and some were lying down, so there could not
be the same busy gathering, bustling, and shifting to and fro with which
children generally prepare themselves to hear a story; but their faces,
and the turning of their heads, and many feeble exclamations of expected
pleasure, showed that all such preparations were making within them.

Mr. Raymond stood in the middle of the room, that he might turn from
side to side, and give each a share of seeing him. Diamond kept his
place by Nanny's side, with her hand in his. I do not know how much of
Mr. Raymond's story the smaller children understood; indeed, I don't
quite know how much there was in it to be understood, for in such a
story every one has just to take what he can get. But they all listened
with apparent satisfaction, and certainly with great attention. Mr.
Raymond wrote it down afterwards, and here it is -- somewhat altered no
doubt, for a good story-teller tries to make his stories better every
time he tells them. I cannot myself help thinking that he was somewhat
indebted for this one to the old story of The Sleeping Beauty
NO HOUSE of any pretension to be called a palace is in the least worthy
of the name, except it has a wood near it -- very near it -- and the nearer
the better. Not all round it -- I don't mean that, for a palace ought to
be open to the sun and wind, and stand high and brave, with weathercocks
glittering and flags flying; but on one side of every palace there must
be a wood. And there was a very grand wood indeed beside the palace of
the king who was going to be Daylight's father; such a grand wood, that
nobody yet had ever got to the other end of it. Near the house it was
kept very trim and nice, and it was free of brushwood for a long way in;
but by degrees it got wild, and it grew wilder, and wilder, and wilder,
until some said wild beasts at last did what they liked in it. The king
and his courtiers often hunted, however, and this kept the wild beasts
far away from the palace.

One glorious summer morning, when the wind and sun were out together,
when the vanes were flashing and the flags frolicking against the blue
sky, little Daylight made her appearance from somewhere -- nobody could
tell where -- a beautiful baby, with such bright eyes that she might have
come from the sun, only by and by she showed such lively ways that she
might equally well have come out of the wind. There was great jubilation
in the palace, for this was the first baby the queen had had, and there
is as much happiness over a new baby in a palace as in a cottage.

But there is one disadvantage of living near a wood: you do not know
quite who your neighbours may be. Everybody knew there were in it
several fairies, living within a few miles of the palace, who always had
had something to do with each new baby that came; for fairies live
so much longer than we, that they can have business with a good many
generations of human mortals. The curious houses they lived in were well
known also,-- one, a hollow oak; another, a birch-tree, though nobody
could ever find how that fairy made a house of it; another, a hut of
growing trees intertwined, and patched up with turf and moss. But there
was another fairy who had lately come to the place, and nobody even knew
she was a fairy except the other fairies. A wicked old thing she was,
always concealing her power, and being as disagreeable as she could,
in order to tempt people to give her offence, that she might have the
pleasure of taking vengeance upon them. The people about thought she was
a witch, and those who knew her by sight were careful to avoid offending
her. She lived in a mud house, in a swampy part of the forest.

In all history we find that fairies give their remarkable gifts to
prince or princess, or any child of sufficient importance in their eyes,
always at the christening. Now this we can understand, because it is
an ancient custom amongst human beings as well; and it is not hard to
explain why wicked fairies should choose the same time to do unkind
things; but it is difficult to understand how they should be able to
do them, for you would fancy all wicked creatures would be powerless on
such an occasion. But I never knew of any interference on the part of
the wicked fairy that did not turn out a good thing in the end. What a
good thing, for instance, it was that one princess should sleep for a
hundred years! Was she not saved from all the plague of young men who
were not worthy of her? And did she not come awake exactly at the right
moment when the right prince kissed her? For my part, I cannot help
wishing a good many girls would sleep till just the same fate overtook
them. It would be happier for them, and more agreeable to their friends.

Of course all the known fairies were invited to the christening. But the
king and queen never thought of inviting an old witch.

For the power of the fairies they have by nature; whereas a witch gets
her power by wickedness. The other fairies, however, knowing the danger
thus run, provided as well as they could against accidents from her
quarter. But they could neither render her powerless, nor could they
arrange their gifts in reference to hers beforehand, for they could not
tell what those might be.

Of course the old hag was there without being asked. Not to be asked
was just what she wanted, that she might have a sort of reason for doing
what she wished to do. For somehow even the wickedest of creatures likes
a pretext for doing the wrong thing.

Five fairies had one after the other given the child such gifts as each
counted best, and the fifth had just stepped back to her place in the
surrounding splendour of ladies and gentlemen, when, mumbling a laugh
between her toothless gums, the wicked fairy hobbled out into the middle
of the circle, and at the moment when the archbishop was handing the
baby to the lady at the head of the nursery department of state affairs,
addressed him thus, giving a bite or two to every word before she could
part with it
said the archbishop, stooping to shout
in her ear
cried the fairy, in the tone of a dry
axle
Then out started the sixth fairy, who, of course, the others had
arranged should come after the wicked one, in order to undo as much as
she might
she said, mournfully
thought the poor king; for they
loved her far too much to give her up to nurses, especially at night, as
most kings and queens do -- and are sorry for it afterwards
said the wicked fairy
said the other fairies, all together
said the crone
But out stepped another fairy, for they had been wise enough to keep two
in reserve, because every fairy knew the trick of one
said the seventh fairy
The wicked fairy made a horrid noise like an angry cat, and hobbled
away. She could not pretend that she had not finished her speech this
time, for she had laughed Ho, ho! and Hu, hu
said the poor king to the seventh fairy
said
she.

The assembly broke up, miserable enough -- the queen, at least, prepared
for a good many sleepless nights, and the lady at the head of the
nursery department anything but comfortable in the prospect before her,
for of course the queen could not do it all. As for the king, he made up
his mind, with what courage he could summon, to meet the demands of the
case, but wondered whether he could with any propriety require the First
Lord of the Treasury to take a share in the burden laid upon him.

I will not attempt to describe what they had to go through for some
time. But at last the household settled into a regular system -- a very
irregular one in some respects. For at certain seasons the palace rang
all night with bursts of laughter from little Daylight, whose heart the
old fairy's curse could not reach; she was Daylight still, only a little
in the wrong place, for she always dropped asleep at the first hint of
dawn in the east. But her merriment was of short duration. When the moon
was at the full, she was in glorious spirits, and as beautiful as it was
possible for a child of her age to be. But as the moon waned, she faded,
until at last she was wan and withered like the poorest, sickliest child
you might come upon in the streets of a great city in the arms of a
homeless mother. Then the night was quiet as the day, for the little
creature lay in her gorgeous cradle night and day with hardly a motion,
and indeed at last without even a moan, like one dead. At first they
often thought she was dead, but at last they got used to it, and only
consulted the almanac to find the moment when she would begin to revive,
which, of course, was with the first appearance of the silver thread of
the crescent moon. Then she would move her lips, and they would give her
a little nourishment; and she would grow better and better and better,
until for a few days she was splendidly well. When well, she was always
merriest out in the moonlight; but even when near her worst, she seemed
better when, in warm summer nights, they carried her cradle out into
the light of the waning moon. Then in her sleep she would smile the
faintest, most pitiful smile.

For a long time very few people ever saw her awake. As she grew older
she became such a favourite, however, that about the palace there were
always some who would contrive to keep awake at night, in order to be
near her. But she soon began to take every chance of getting away from
her nurses and enjoying her moonlight alone. And thus things went on
until she was nearly seventeen years of age. Her father and mother had
by that time got so used to the odd state of things that they had ceased
to wonder at them. All their arrangements had reference to the state
of the Princess Daylight, and it is amazing how things contrive to
accommodate themselves. But how any prince was ever to find and deliver
her, appeared inconceivable.

As she grew older she had grown more and more beautiful, with the
sunniest hair and the loveliest eyes of heavenly blue, brilliant and
profound as the sky of a June day. But so much more painful and sad was
the change as her bad time came on. The more beautiful she was in the
full moon, the more withered and worn did she become as the moon waned.
At the time at which my story has now arrived, she looked, when the moon
was small or gone, like an old woman exhausted with suffering. This was
the more painful that her appearance was unnatural; for her hair and
eyes did not change. Her wan face was both drawn and wrinkled, and had
an eager hungry look. Her skinny hands moved as if wishing, but unable,
to lay hold of something. Her shoulders were bent forward, her chest
went in, and she stooped as if she were eighty years old. At last she
had to be put to bed, and there await the flow of the tide of life. But
she grew to dislike being seen, still more being touched by any hands,
during this season. One lovely summer evening, when the moon lay all but
gone upon the verge of the horizon, she vanished from her attendants,
and it was only after searching for her a long time in great terror,
that they found her fast asleep in the forest, at the foot of a silver
birch, and carried her home.

A little way from the palace there was a great open glade, covered with
the greenest and softest grass. This was her favourite haunt; for here
the full moon shone free and glorious, while through a vista in the
trees she could generally see more or less of the dying moon as it
crossed the opening. Here she had a little rustic house built for her,
and here she mostly resided. None of the court might go there without
leave, and her own attendants had learned by this time not to be
officious in waiting upon her, so that she was very much at liberty.
Whether the good fairies had anything to do with it or not I cannot
tell, but at last she got into the way of retreating further into the
wood every night as the moon waned, so that sometimes they had great
trouble in finding her; but as she was always very angry if she
discovered they were watching her, they scarcely dared to do so. At
length one night they thought they had lost her altogether. It was
morning before they found her. Feeble as she was, she had wandered into
a thicket a long way from the glade, and there she lay -- fast asleep, of
course.

Although the fame of her beauty and sweetness had gone abroad, yet as
everybody knew she was under a bad spell, no king in the neighbourhood
had any desire to have her for a daughter-in-law. There were serious
objections to such a relation.

About this time in a neighbouring kingdom, in consequence of the
wickedness of the nobles, an insurrection took place upon the death of
the old king, the greater part of the nobility was massacred, and
the young prince was compelled to flee for his life, disguised like a
peasant. For some time, until he got out of the country, he suffered
much from hunger and fatigue; but when he got into that ruled by the
princess's father, and had no longer any fear of being recognised, he
fared better, for the people were kind. He did not abandon his disguise,
however. One tolerable reason was that he had no other clothes to put
on, and another that he had very little money, and did not know where to
get any more. There was no good in telling everybody he met that he
was a prince, for he felt that a prince ought to be able to get on like
other people, else his rank only made a fool of him. He had read of
princes setting out upon adventure; and here he was out in similar case,
only without having had a choice in the matter. He would go on, and see
what would come of it.

For a day or two he had been walking through the palace-wood, and had
had next to nothing to eat, when he came upon the strangest little
house, inhabited by a very nice, tidy, motherly old woman. This was one
of the good fairies. The moment she saw him she knew quite well who
he was and what was going to come of it; but she was not at liberty to
interfere with the orderly march of events. She received him with the
kindness she would have shown to any other traveller, and gave him bread
and milk, which he thought the most delicious food he had ever tasted,
wondering that they did not have it for dinner at the palace sometimes.
The old woman pressed him to stay all night. When he awoke he was amazed
to find how well and strong he felt. She would not take any of the money
he offered, but begged him, if he found occasion of continuing in the
neighbourhood, to return and occupy the same quarters
answered the prince
said the fairy
asked the prince
returned she
said the prince
said the fairy
said the prince
said the fairy
said the prince
said the fairy.

The prince was not used to be spoken to in this fashion, so he felt a
little angry, and turned and walked away. But this did not offend the
fairy. She stood at the door of her little house looking after him till
the trees hid him quite. Then she said
and went in.

The prince wandered and wandered, and got nowhere. The sun sank and sank
and went out of sight, and he seemed no nearer the end of the wood than
ever. He sat down on a fallen tree, ate a bit of bread the old woman had
given him, and waited for the moon; for, although he was not much of an
astronomer, he knew the moon would rise some time, because she had risen
the night before. Up she came, slow and slow, but of a good size, pretty
nearly round indeed; whereupon, greatly refreshed with his piece of
bread, he got up and went -- he knew not whither.

After walking a considerable distance, he thought he was coming to the
outside of the forest; but when he reached what he thought the last of
it, he found himself only upon the edge of a great open space in it,
covered with grass. The moon shone very bright, and he thought he had
never seen a more lovely spot. Still it looked dreary because of its
loneliness, for he could not see the house at the other side. He sat
down, weary again, and gazed into the glade. He had not seen so much
room for several days.

All at once he spied something in the middle of the grass. What could it
be? It moved; it came nearer. Was it a human creature, gliding across -- a
girl dressed in white, gleaming in the moonshine? She came nearer and
nearer. He crept behind a tree and watched, wondering. It must be some
strange being of the wood -- a nymph whom the moonlight and the warm
dusky air had enticed from her tree. But when she came close to where
he stood, he no longer doubted she was human -- for he had caught sight of
her sunny hair, and her clear blue eyes, and the loveliest face and form
that he had ever seen. All at once she began singing like a nightingale,
and dancing to her own music, with her eyes ever turned towards the
moon. She passed close to where he stood, dancing on by the edge of the
trees and away in a great circle towards the other side, until he could
see but a spot of white in the yellowish green of the moonlit grass. But
when he feared it would vanish quite, the spot grew, and became a figure
once more. She approached him again, singing and dancing, and waving her
arms over her head, until she had completed the circle. Just opposite
his tree she stood, ceased her song, dropped her arms, and broke out
into a long clear laugh, musical as a brook. Then, as if tired, she
threw herself on the grass, and lay gazing at the moon. The prince was
almost afraid to breathe lest he should startle her, and she should
vanish from his sight. As to venturing near her, that never came into
his head.

She had lain for a long hour or longer, when the prince began again to
doubt concerning her. Perhaps she was but a vision of his own fancy. Or
was she a spirit of the wood, after all? If so, he too would haunt the
wood, glad to have lost kingdom and everything for the hope of being
near her. He would build him a hut in the forest, and there he would
live for the pure chance of seeing her again. Upon nights like this at
least she would come out and bask in the moonlight, and make his soul
blessed. But while he thus dreamed she sprang to her feet, turned her
face full to the moon, and began singing as she would draw her down from
the sky by the power of her entrancing voice. She looked more beautiful
than ever. Again she began dancing to her own music, and danced away
into the distance. Once more she returned in a similar manner; but
although he was watching as eagerly as before, what with fatigue and
what with gazing, he fell fast asleep before she came near him. When he
awoke it was broad daylight, and the princess was nowhere.

He could not leave the place. What if she should come the next night! He
would gladly endure a day's hunger to see her yet again: he would buckle
his belt quite tight. He walked round the glade to see if he could
discover any prints of her feet. But the grass was so short, and her
steps had been so light, that she had not left a single trace behind
her. He walked half-way round the wood without seeing anything to
account for her presence. Then he spied a lovely little house, with
thatched roof and low eaves, surrounded by an exquisite garden, with
doves and peacocks walking in it. Of course this must be where the
gracious lady who loved the moonlight lived. Forgetting his appearance,
he walked towards the door, determined to make inquiries, but as he
passed a little pond full of gold and silver fishes, he caught sight of
himself and turned to find the door to the kitchen. There he knocked,
and asked for a piece of bread. The good-natured cook brought him in,
and gave him an excellent breakfast, which the prince found nothing the
worse for being served in the kitchen. While he ate, he talked with
his entertainer, and learned that this was the favourite retreat of
the Princess Daylight. But he learned nothing more, both because he was
afraid of seeming inquisitive, and because the cook did not choose to be
heard talking about her mistress to a peasant lad who had begged for his
breakfast.

As he rose to take his leave, it occurred to him that he might not be
so far from the old woman's cottage as he had thought, and he asked the
cook whether she knew anything of such a place, describing it as well as
he could. She said she knew it well enough, adding with a smile
remarked the
prince
asked the cook
answered the prince
said the cook
asked the prince.

She gave him full instructions; and he left her with many thanks.

Being now refreshed, however, the prince did not go back to the cottage
that day: he remained in the forest, amusing himself as best he could,
but waiting anxiously for the night, in the hope that the princess would
again appear. Nor was he disappointed, for, directly the moon rose, he
spied a glimmering shape far across the glade. As it drew nearer, he saw
it was she indeed -- not dressed in white as before: in a pale blue like
the sky, she looked lovelier still. He thought it was that the blue
suited her yet better than the white; he did not know that she was
really more beautiful because the moon was nearer the full. In fact the
next night was full moon, and the princess would then be at the zenith
of her loveliness.

The prince feared for some time that she was not coming near his
hiding-place that night; but the circles in her dance ever widened as
the moon rose, until at last they embraced the whole glade, and she
came still closer to the trees where he was hiding than she had come the
night before. He was entranced with her loveliness, for it was indeed a
marvellous thing. All night long he watched her, but dared not go near
her. He would have been ashamed of watching her too, had he not become
almost incapable of thinking of anything but how beautiful she was. He
watched the whole night long, and saw that as the moon went down she
retreated in smaller and smaller circles, until at last he could see her
no more.

Weary as he was, he set out for the old woman's cottage, where he
arrived just in time for her breakfast, which she shared with him. He
then went to bed, and slept for many hours. When he awoke the sun was
down, and he departed in great anxiety lest he should lose a glimpse
of the lovely vision. But, whether it was by the machinations of the
swamp-fairy, or merely that it is one thing to go and another to return
by the same road, he lost his way. I shall not attempt to describe his
misery when the moon rose, and he saw nothing but trees, trees, trees.

She was high in the heavens before he reached the glade. Then indeed
his troubles vanished, for there was the princess coming dancing towards
him, in a dress that shone like gold, and with shoes that glimmered
through the grass like fireflies. She was of course still more beautiful
than before. Like an embodied sunbeam she passed him, and danced away
into the distance.

Before she returned in her circle, the clouds had begun to gather about
the moon. The wind rose, the trees moaned, and their lighter branches
leaned all one way before it. The prince feared that the princess would
go in, and he should see her no more that night. But she came dancing on
more jubilant than ever, her golden dress and her sunny hair streaming
out upon the blast, waving her arms towards the moon, and in the
exuberance of her delight ordering the clouds away from off her face.
The prince could hardly believe she was not a creature of the elements,
after all.

By the time she had completed another circle, the clouds had gathered
deep, and there were growlings of distant thunder. Just as she passed
the tree where he stood, a flash of lightning blinded him for a moment,
and when he saw again, to his horror, the princess lay on the ground.
He darted to her, thinking she had been struck; but when she heard him
coming, she was on her feet in a moment
she asked
said the prince,
hesitating
said the princess, waving him off rather
haughtily.

The poor prince turned and walked towards the wood
said Daylight
said the prince
said the princess.

Again the disappointed prince turned and went
said the princess.

He obeyed, and stood before her waiting
she asked
he answered
she rejoined
said the princess
said the prince
said the princess
said the prince
said the princess
Here she hid her face in her hands, turned away, and walked in the
slowest, stateliest manner towards the house. The prince ventured to
follow her at a little distance, but she turned and made a repellent
gesture, which, like a true gentleman-prince, he obeyed at once. He
waited a long time, but as she did not come near him again, and as the
night had now cleared, he set off at last for the old woman's cottage.

It was long past midnight when he reached it, but, to his surprise, the
old woman was paring potatoes at the door. Fairies are fond of doing odd
things. Indeed, however they may dissemble, the night is always their
day. And so it is with all who have fairy blood in them
said
the prince; for that was the kind way in which any young man in his
country would address a woman who was much older than himself
she answered
said the prince
said she
said the prince
asked the fairy
said the prince
said the
old woman
asked the prince
said she
asked the prince
said the prince
This the prince said, not that he doubted the princess, but that he
wanted the fairy to tell him more. She was too old a fairy, however, to
be caught so easily
said the prince
said the fairy
asked the prince.

But he could get nothing more out of the fairy, and had to go to bed
unanswered, which was something of a trial.

Now wicked fairies will not be bound by the law which the good fairies
obey, and this always seems to give the bad the advantage over the good,
for they use means to gain their ends which the others will not. But it
is all of no consequence, for what they do never succeeds; nay, in the
end it brings about the very thing they are trying to prevent. So
you see that somehow, for all their cleverness, wicked fairies are
dreadfully stupid, for, although from the beginning of the world they
have really helped instead of thwarting the good fairies, not one of
them is a bit wiser for it. She will try the bad thing just as they all
did before her; and succeeds no better of course.

The prince had so far stolen a march upon the swamp-fairy that she
did not know he was in the neighbourhood until after he had seen the
princess those three times. When she knew it, she consoled herself by
thinking that the princess must be far too proud and too modest for any
young man to venture even to speak to her before he had seen her six
times at least. But there was even less danger than the wicked fairy
thought; for, however much the princess might desire to be set free, she
was dreadfully afraid of the wrong prince. Now, however, the fairy was
going to do all she could.

She so contrived it by her deceitful spells, that the next night the
prince could not by any endeavour find his way to the glade. It would
take me too long to tell her tricks. They would be amusing to us, who
know that they could not do any harm, but they were something other than
amusing to the poor prince. He wandered about the forest till daylight,
and then fell fast asleep. The same thing occurred for seven following
days, during which neither could he find the good fairy's cottage. After
the third quarter of the moon, however, the bad fairy thought she might
be at ease about the affair for a fortnight at least, for there was no
chance of the prince wishing to kiss the princess during that period.
So the first day of the fourth quarter he did find the cottage, and the
next day he found the glade. For nearly another week he haunted it. But
the princess never came. I have little doubt she was on the farther
edge of it some part of every night, but at this period she always wore
black, and, there being little or no light, the prince never saw her.
Nor would he have known her if he had seen her. How could he have
taken the worn decrepit creature she was now, for the glorious Princess
Daylight?

At last, one night when there was no moon at all, he ventured near the
house. There he heard voices talking, although it was past midnight; for
her women were in considerable uneasiness, because the one whose turn it
was to watch her had fallen asleep, and had not seen which way she went,
and this was a night when she would probably wander very far, describing
a circle which did not touch the open glade at all, but stretched away
from the back of the house, deep into that side of the forest -- a part
of which the prince knew nothing. When he understood from what they said
that she had disappeared, and that she must have gone somewhere in the
said direction, he plunged at once into the wood to see if he could find
her. For hours he roamed with nothing to guide him but the vague notion
of a circle which on one side bordered on the house, for so much had he
picked up from the talk he had overheard.

It was getting towards the dawn, but as yet there was no streak of light
in the sky, when he came to a great birch-tree, and sat down weary at
the foot of it. While he sat -- very miserable, you may be sure -- full of
fear for the princess, and wondering how her attendants could take it so
quietly, he bethought himself that it would not be a bad plan to light
a fire, which, if she were anywhere near, would attract her. This he
managed with a tinder-box, which the good fairy had given him. It was
just beginning to blaze up, when he heard a moan, which seemed to come
from the other side of the tree. He sprung to his feet, but his heart
throbbed so that he had to lean for a moment against the tree before he
could move. When he got round, there lay a human form in a little dark
heap on the earth. There was light enough from his fire to show that it
was not the princess. He lifted it in his arms, hardly heavier than a
child, and carried it to the flame. The countenance was that of an old
woman, but it had a fearfully strange look. A black hood concealed her
hair, and her eyes were closed. He laid her down as comfortably as he
could, chafed her hands, put a little cordial from a bottle, also the
gift of the fairy, into her mouth; took off his coat and wrapped it
about her, and in short did the best he could. In a little while she
opened her eyes and looked at him -- so pitifully! The tears rose and
flowed from her grey wrinkled cheeks, but she said never a word. She
closed her eyes again, but the tears kept on flowing, and her whole
appearance was so utterly pitiful that the prince was near crying too.
He begged her to tell him what was the matter, promising to do all
he could to help her; but still she did not speak. He thought she was
dying, and took her in his arms again to carry her to the princess's
house, where he thought the good-natured cook might be able to do
something for her. When he lifted her, the tears flowed yet faster, and
she gave such a sad moan that it went to his very heart
he said
and kissed her on the withered
lips.

She started; and what eyes they were that opened upon him! But he did
not see them, for it was still very dark, and he had enough to do to
make his way through the trees towards the house.

Just as he approached the door, feeling more tired than he could have
imagined possible -- she was such a little thin old thing -- she began to
move, and became so restless that, unable to carry her a moment longer,
he thought to lay her on the grass. But she stood upright on her feet.
Her hood had dropped, and her hair fell about her. The first gleam
of the morning was caught on her face: that face was bright as the
never-aging Dawn, and her eyes were lovely as the sky of darkest blue.
The prince recoiled in overmastering wonder. It was Daylight herself
whom he had brought from the forest! He fell at her feet, nor dared to
look up until she laid her hand upon his head. He rose then
murmured Daylight
THE children were delighted with the story, and made many amusing
remarks upon it. Mr. Raymond promised to search his brain for another,
and when he had found one to bring it to them. Diamond having taken
leave of Nanny, and promised to go and see her again soon, went away
with him.

Now Mr. Raymond had been turning over in his mind what he could do both
for Diamond and for Nanny. He had therefore made some acquaintance with
Diamond's father, and had been greatly pleased with him. But he had come
to the resolution, before he did anything so good as he would like to
do for them, to put them all to a certain test. So as they walked away
together, he began to talk with Diamond as follows
said Mr. Raymond
added Diamond
said Mr.
Raymond
remarked Diamond reflectively
interrupted Diamond
Mr. Raymond
proceeded
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Mr. Raymond
he added, smiling thoughtfully
said Diamond
to himself; but he had learned to be very careful of saying such things
aloud
resumed Mr. Raymond
Diamond looked up in Mr.
Raymond's face, wondering what he could mean
said Diamond
objected Mr.
Raymond.

Diamond remembered the drunken cabman, and saw that his friend was
right
he returned
said Mr. Raymond
said Diamond
said Diamond
Mr. Raymond smiled, and as they had now reached his door, they parted,
and Diamond went home. As soon as his father entered the house, Diamond
gave him Mr. Raymond's message, and recounted the conversation that had
preceded it. His father said little, but took thought-sauce to his bread
and butter, and as soon as he had finished his meal, rose, saying
Diamond accompanied his
father to Mr. Raymond's door, and there left him.

He was shown at once into Mr. Raymond's study, where he gazed with
some wonder at the multitude of books on the walls, and thought what a
learned man Mr. Raymond must be.

Presently Mr. Raymond entered, and after saying much the same about
his old horse, made the following distinct proposal -- one not
over-advantageous to Diamond's father, but for which he had
reasons -- namely, that Joseph should have the use of Mr. Raymond's horse
while he was away, on condition that he never worked him more than six
hours a day, and fed him well, and that, besides, he should take Nanny
home as soon as she was able to leave the hospital, and provide for her
as one of his own children, neither better nor worse -- so long, that is,
as he had the horse.

Diamond's father could not help thinking it a pretty close bargain. He
should have both the girl and the horse to feed, and only six hours'
work out of the horse
said Mr. Raymond
answered Joseph
So Joseph went home and recounted the proposal to his wife, adding that
he did not think there was much advantage to be got out of it
said Diamond's mother
answered her husband
thought his father
the mother went on
said her husband
said his wife, and there the conversation
ended.

Diamond's father went the very next day to Mr. Raymond, and accepted his
proposal; so that the week after having got another stall in the same
stable, he had two horses instead of one. Oddly enough, the name of the
new horse was Ruby, for he was a very red chestnut. Diamond's name came
from a white lozenge on his forehead. Young Diamond said they were rich
now, with such a big diamond and such a big ruby
NANNY was not fit to be moved for some time yet, and Diamond went to see
her as often as he could. But being more regularly engaged now, seeing
he went out every day for a few hours with old Diamond, and had his baby
to mind, and one of the horses to attend to, he could not go so often as
he would have liked.

One evening, as he sat by her bedside, she said to him
said Diamond
he said to himself
My readers must not suppose that poor Nanny was able to say what she
meant so well as I put it down here. She had never been to school, and
had heard very little else than vulgar speech until she came to the
hospital. But I have been to school, and although that could never make
me able to dream so well as Nanny, it has made me able to tell her dream
better than she could herself. And I am the more desirous of doing this
for her that I have already done the best I could for Diamond's dream,
and it would be a shame to give the boy all the advantage
said Nanny
said Diamond; but Nanny went on
said Diamond
But Nanny went on with her story
said Diamond
said Nanny, and went on with her story
said Diamond
said Nanny
answered Diamond
said Nanny
asked Diamond
said Diamond, putting both hands to his head, as if
it had been a globe he could take off and set on again
said Nanny
said Diamond
returned
Nanny
said Diamond
said Nanny
returned Diamond
said Nanny
rejoined Nanny
said Diamond
said Nanny.

Diamond held his peace, and Nanny resumed her story
said Diamond
returned Nanny
persisted Nanny, and again Diamond
held his peace
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
returned Nanny.

What Diamond meant, I do not pretend to say. He had curious notions
about things
said Nanny
said Diamond, who thought everything strange and
beautiful must be done by North Wind
said Diamond
I wasn't a bit frightened. I went up to the beautiful
bright thing, and the old man held down his hand, and I took hold of it,
and gave a jump, and he gave me a lift, and I was inside the moon. And
what do you think it was like? It was such a pretty little house, with
blue windows and white curtains! At one of the windows sat a beautiful
lady, with her head leaning on her hand, looking out. She seemed rather
sad, and I was sorry for her, and stood staring at her
said Diamond
said Nanny
Perhaps one of my child-readers may remember whether the moon came down
to fetch him or her the same night that Diamond had his dream. I cannot
tell, of course. I know she did not come to fetch me, though I did think
I could make her follow me when I was a boy -- not a very tiny one either
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond. He was going to say that that was very much the sort
of thing at the back of the north wind; but he checked himself and only
added
said Nanny
said Diamond
remarked Diamond
said Diamond
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
said Nanny
said Diamond
But now the nurse came and told him it was time to go; and Diamond went,
saying to himself
IT WAS a great delight to Diamond when at length Nanny was well enough
to leave the hospital and go home to their house. She was not very
strong yet, but Diamond's mother was very considerate of her, and took
care that she should have nothing to do she was not quite fit for. If
Nanny had been taken straight from the street, it is very probable she
would not have been so pleasant in a decent household, or so easy to
teach; but after the refining influences of her illness and the kind
treatment she had had in the hospital, she moved about the house just
like some rather sad pleasure haunting the mind. As she got better, and
the colour came back to her cheeks, her step grew lighter and quicker,
her smile shone out more readily, and it became certain that she would
soon be a treasure of help. It was great fun to see Diamond teaching
her how to hold the baby, and wash and dress him, and often they laughed
together over her awkwardness. But she had not many such lessons before
she was able to perform those duties quite as well as Diamond himself.

Things however did not go well with Joseph from the very arrival of
Ruby. It almost seemed as if the red beast had brought ill luck with
him. The fares were fewer, and the pay less. Ruby's services did indeed
make the week's income at first a little beyond what it used to be, but
then there were two more to feed. After the first month he fell lame,
and for the whole of the next Joseph dared not attempt to work him. I
cannot say that he never grumbled, for his own health was far from what
it had been; but I can say that he tried to do his best. During all
that month, they lived on very short commons indeed, seldom tasting meat
except on Sundays, and poor old Diamond, who worked hardest of all, not
even then -- so that at the end of it he was as thin as a clothes-horse,
while Ruby was as plump and sleek as a bishop's cob.

Nor was it much better after Ruby was able to work again, for it was
a season of great depression in business, and that is very soon felt
amongst the cabmen. City men look more after their shillings, and their
wives and daughters have less to spend. It was besides a wet autumn, and
bread rose greatly in price. When I add to this that Diamond's mother
was but poorly, for a new baby was coming, you will see that these were
not very jolly times for our friends in the mews.

Notwithstanding the depressing influences around him, Joseph was able to
keep a little hope alive in his heart; and when he came home at night,
would get Diamond to read to him, and would also make Nanny produce her
book that he might see how she was getting on. For Diamond had taken her
education in hand, and as she was a clever child, she was very soon able
to put letters and words together.

Thus the three months passed away, but Mr. Raymond did not return.
Joseph had been looking anxiously for him, chiefly with the desire of
getting rid of Ruby -- not that he was absolutely of no use to him, but
that he was a constant weight upon his mind. Indeed, as far as provision
went, he was rather worse off with Ruby and Nanny than he had been
before, but on the other hand, Nanny was a great help in the house, and
it was a comfort to him to think that when the new baby did come, Nanny
would be with his wife.

Of God's gifts a baby is of the greatest; therefore it is no wonder that
when this one came, she was as heartily welcomed by the little household
as if she had brought plenty with her. Of course she made a great
difference in the work to be done -- far more difference than her size
warranted, but Nanny was no end of help, and Diamond was as much of a
sunbeam as ever, and began to sing to the new baby the first moment he
got her in his arms. But he did not sing the same songs to her that he
had sung to his brother, for, he said, she was a new baby and must have
new songs; and besides, she was a sister-baby and not a brother-baby,
and of course would not like the same kind of songs. Where the
difference in his songs lay, however, I do not pretend to be able to
point out. One thing I am sure of, that they not only had no small share
in the education of the little girl, but helped the whole family a great
deal more than they were aware.

How they managed to get through the long dreary expensive winter, I can
hardly say. Sometimes things were better, sometimes worse. But at last
the spring came, and the winter was over and gone, and that was much.
Still, Mr. Raymond did not return, and although the mother would have
been able to manage without Nanny now, they could not look for a place
for her so long as they had Ruby; and they were not altogether sorry for
this. One week at last was worse than they had yet had. They were almost
without bread before it was over. But the sadder he saw his father and
mother looking, the more Diamond set himself to sing to the two babies.

One thing which had increased their expenses was that they had been
forced to hire another little room for Nanny. When the second baby came,
Diamond gave up his room that Nanny might be at hand to help his mother,
and went to hers, which, although a fine place to what she had been
accustomed to, was not very nice in his eyes. He did not mind the change
though, for was not his mother the more comfortable for it? And was
not Nanny more comfortable too? And indeed was not Diamond himself more
comfortable that other people were more comfortable? And if there was
more comfort every way, the change was a happy one
IT WAS Friday night, and Diamond, like the rest of the household, had
had very little to eat that day. The mother would always pay the week's
rent before she laid out anything even on food. His father had been very
gloomy -- so gloomy that he had actually been cross to his wife. It is
a strange thing how pain of seeing the suffering of those we love will
sometimes make us add to their suffering by being cross with them. This
comes of not having faith enough in God, and shows how necessary this
faith is, for when we lose it, we lose even the kindness which alone can
soothe the suffering. Diamond in consequence had gone to bed very quiet
and thoughtful -- a little troubled indeed.

It had been a very stormy winter, and even now that the spring had come,
the north wind often blew. When Diamond went to his bed, which was in
a tiny room in the roof, he heard it like the sea moaning; and when he
fell asleep he still heard the moaning. All at once he said to himself
But he had no time to answer the question,
for there was North Wind calling him. His heart beat very fast, it was
such a long time since he had heard that voice. He jumped out of bed,
and looked everywhere, but could not see her
she
said again and again; but where the here was he could not tell. To be
sure the room was all but quite dark, and she might be close beside him
said Diamond
was all her answer.

Diamond opened the door, and went out of the room, and down the stair
and into the yard. His little heart was in a flutter, for he had long
given up all thought of seeing her again. Neither now was he to see her.
When he got out, a great puff of wind came against him, and in obedience
to it he turned his back, and went as it blew. It blew him right up to
the stable-door, and went on blowing
said Diamond to himself
He knew where the key was, in a certain hole in the wall -- far too high
for him to get at. He ran to the place, however: just as he reached it
there came a wild blast, and down fell the key clanging on the stones at
his feet. He picked it up, and ran back and opened the stable-door, and
went in. And what do you think he saw?

A little light came through the dusty window from a gas-lamp, sufficient
to show him Diamond and Ruby with their two heads up, looking at each
other across the partition of their stalls. The light showed the white
mark on Diamond's forehead, but Ruby's eye shone so bright, that he
thought more light came out of it than went in. This is what he saw.

But what do you think he heard?

He heard the two horses talking to each other -- in a strange language,
which yet, somehow or other, he could understand, and turn over in
his mind in English. The first words he heard were from Diamond, who
apparently had been already quarrelling with Ruby
said old Diamond
said Ruby in a deprecating tone
retorted Diamond
said Ruby
said Ruby
retorted Diamond
Here Diamond
began to double up his knees; but Ruby spoke again, and, as young
Diamond thought, in a rather different tone
returned the other, tumbling against the partition as
he rolled over on his side to give his legs every possible privilege in
their narrow circumstances
At the words, the old horse arose with a scramble like thunder, shot his
angry head and glaring eye over into Ruby's stall, and said
Old Diamond made no reply. He had lain down again, and a sleepy snort,
very like a snore, revealed that, if he was not already asleep, he was
past understanding a word that Ruby was saying. When young Diamond found
this, he thought he might venture to take up the dropt shuttlecock of
the conversation
he said.

But Ruby never turned his head, or took any notice of him. I suppose
he did not understand more of English than just what the coachman and
stableman were in the habit of addressing him with. Finding, however,
that his companion made no reply, he shot his head over the partition
and looking down at him said
Ruby turned away, and began pulling at his hayrack in silence.

Diamond gave a shiver, and looking round saw that the door of the stable
was open. He began to feel as if he had been dreaming, and after a
glance about the stable to see if North Wind was anywhere visible, he
thought he had better go back to bed
THE next morning, Diamond's mother said to his father
asked Joseph
returned Martha
For at that moment Diamond was singing like a lark in the clouds. He had
the new baby in his arms, while his mother was dressing herself. Joseph
was sitting at his breakfast -- a little weak tea, dry bread, and very
dubious butter -- which Nanny had set for him, and which he was enjoying
because he was hungry. He had groomed both horses, and had got old
Diamond harnessed ready to put to
said Diamond.

The baby had not been christened yet, but Diamond, in reading his Bible,
had come upon the word dulcimer, and thought it so pretty that ever
after he called his sister Dulcimer
he repeated
asked his father
answered Diamond
said his father
said Diamond
suggested Diamond
returned his father
said his wife
said Joseph, as he rose and went to
get his cab out.

Diamond resumed his singing. For some time he carolled snatches of
everything or anything; but at last it settled down into something like
what follows. I cannot tell where or how he got it.


            Where did you come from, baby dear?
            Out of the everywhere into here.

            Where did you get your eyes so blue?
            Out of the sky as I came through.

            What makes the light in them sparkle and spin?
            Some of the starry spikes left in.

            Where did you get that little tear?
            I found it waiting when I got here.

            What makes your forehead so smooth and high?
            A soft hand stroked it as I went by.

            What makes your cheek like a warm white rose?
            I saw something better than any one knows.

            Whence that three-cornered smile of bliss?
            Three angels gave me at once a kiss.

            Where did you get this pearly ear?
            God spoke, and it came out to hear.

            Where did you get those arms and hands?
            Love made itself into hooks and bands.

            Feet, whence did you come, you darling things?
            From the same box as the cherubs' wings.

            How did they all just come to be you?
            God thought about me, and so I grew.

            But how did you come to us, you dear?
            God thought about you, and so I am here
said his mother
said Diamond.

When his father came home to have his dinner, and change Diamond for
Ruby, they saw him look very sad, and he told them he had not had a fare
worth mentioning the whole morning
he said
said Diamond,
dreamily, not intending to say it aloud
answered his father
returned Diamond.

Before his father could speak again, a knock came to the door, and in
walked Mr. Raymond with a smile on his face. Joseph got up and received
him respectfully, but not very cordially. Martha set a chair for him,
but he would not sit down
he said to Joseph
said Mr. Raymond
said Mr. Raymond, hastily
said Diamond
said his father, turning to him
answered Diamond
said Mr. Raymond
said Joseph
They went, and Joseph, having first taken off his harness, walked Ruby
into the middle of the yard
said Mr. Raymond
Joseph was too angry to make any answer
said Mr. Raymond
Joseph laughed rather bitterly as he went to fetch Diamond.

When the two were placed side by side, Mr. Raymond could hardly keep
his countenance, but from a mingling of feelings. Beside the great,
red, round barrel, Ruby, all body and no legs, Diamond looked like a
clothes-horse with a skin thrown over it. There was hardly a spot of
him where you could not descry some sign of a bone underneath. Gaunt and
grim and weary he stood, kissing his master, and heeding no one else
said Mr. Raymond
returned Joseph, throwing an arm round his horse's neck
said Joseph, in a tone implying anything but thanks
said Mr. Raymond
returned Joseph
Joseph stood bewildered, unable to answer
continued Mr. Raymond
A strong inclination to laugh intruded upon Joseph's inclination to cry,
and made speech still harder than before
he said at length
said Mr. Raymond as he walked away.

He had meant to test Joseph when he made the bargain about Ruby, but had
no intention of so greatly prolonging the trial. He had been taken ill
in Switzerland, and had been quite unable to return sooner. He went away
now highly gratified at finding that he had stood the test, and was a
true man.

Joseph rushed in to his wife who had been standing at the window
anxiously waiting the result of the long colloquy. When she heard that
the horses were to go together in double harness, she burst forth into
an immoderate fit of laughter. Diamond came up with the baby in his arms
and made big anxious eyes at her, saying
said his mother
said his father, angrily
Joseph stared and said no more. For all his new gladness, he was very
gloomy as he re-harnessed the angel, for he thought his darling Diamond
was going out of his mind.

He could not help thinking rather differently, however, when he found
the change that had come over Ruby. Considering his fat, he exerted
himself amazingly, and got over the ground with incredible speed. So
willing, even anxious, was he to go now, that Joseph had to hold him
quite tight.

Then as he laughed at his own fancies, a new fear came upon him lest the
horse should break his wind, and Mr. Raymond have good cause to think
he had not been using him well. He might even suppose that he had taken
advantage of his new instructions, to let out upon the horse some of his
pent-up dislike; whereas in truth, it had so utterly vanished that he
felt as if Ruby, too, had been his friend all the time
BEFORE the end of the month, Ruby had got respectably thin, and Diamond
respectably stout. They really began to look fit for double harness.

Joseph and his wife got their affairs in order, and everything ready for
migrating at the shortest notice; and they felt so peaceful and happy
that they judged all the trouble they had gone through well worth
enduring. As for Nanny, she had been so happy ever since she left the
hospital, that she expected nothing better, and saw nothing attractive
in the notion of the country. At the same time, she had not the least
idea of what the word country meant, for she had never seen anything
about her but streets and gas-lamps. Besides, she was more attached to
Jim than to Diamond: Jim was a reasonable being, Diamond in her eyes at
best only an amiable, over-grown baby, whom no amount of expostulation
would ever bring to talk sense, not to say think it. Now that she
could manage the baby as well as he, she judged herself altogether his
superior. Towards his father and mother, she was all they could wish.

Diamond had taken a great deal of pains and trouble to find Jim, and had
at last succeeded through the help of the tall policeman, who was glad
to renew his acquaintance with the strange child. Jim had moved his
quarters, and had not heard of Nanny's illness till some time after she
was taken to the hospital, where he was too shy to go and inquire about
her. But when at length she went to live with Diamond's family, Jim was
willing enough to go and see her. It was after one of his visits, during
which they had been talking of her new prospects, that Nanny expressed
to Diamond her opinion of the country
said Diamond
returned Nanny
Diamond smiled with a far-away look, as if he were gazing through clouds
of green leaves and the vision contented him. But he was thinking with
himself what more he could do for Nanny; and that same evening he went
to find Mr. Raymond, for he had heard that he had returned to town
said Mr. Raymond
And he was indeed, for he had grown very fond of him. His opinion of him
was very different from Nanny's
he asked
answered Diamond
said Mr. Raymond
added Diamond, with one of his sweetest smiles.

What Mr. Raymond thought, I dare hardly attempt to put down here. But
one part of it was, that the highest wisdom must ever appear folly to
those who do not possess it
Diamond continued
Diamond succeeded in bringing Jim to Mr. Raymond, and the consequence
was that he resolved to give the boy a chance. He provided new clothes
for both him and Nanny; and upon a certain day, Joseph took his wife and
three children, and Nanny and Jim, by train to a certain station in the
county of Kent, where they found a cart waiting to carry them and their
luggage to The Mound, which was the name of Mr. Raymond's new residence.
I will not describe the varied feelings of the party as they went, or
when they arrived. All I will say is, that Diamond, who is my only care,
was full of quiet delight -- a gladness too deep to talk about.

Joseph returned to town the same night, and the next morning drove Ruby
and Diamond down, with the carriage behind them, and Mr. Raymond and a
lady in the carriage. For Mr. Raymond was an old bachelor no longer: he
was bringing his wife with him to live at The Mound. The moment Nanny
saw her, she recognised her as the lady who had lent her the ruby-ring.
That ring had been given her by Mr. Raymond.

The weather was very hot, and the woods very shadowy. There were not a
great many wild flowers, for it was getting well towards autumn, and the
most of the wild flowers rise early to be before the leaves, because
if they did not, they would never get a glimpse of the sun for them. So
they have their fun over, and are ready to go to bed again by the time
the trees are dressed. But there was plenty of the loveliest grass and
daisies about the house, and Diamond's chief pleasure seemed to be to
lie amongst them, and breathe the pure air. But all the time, he was
dreaming of the country at the back of the north wind, and trying to
recall the songs the river used to sing. For this was more like being at
the back of the north wind than anything he had known since he left it.
Sometimes he would have his little brother, sometimes his little sister,
and sometimes both of them in the grass with him, and then he felt just
like a cat with her first kittens, he said, only he couldn't purr -- all
he could do was to sing.

These were very different times from those when he used to drive the
cab, but you must not suppose that Diamond was idle. He did not do so
much for his mother now, because Nanny occupied his former place; but
he helped his father still, both in the stable and the harness-room, and
generally went with him on the box that he might learn to drive a pair,
and be ready to open the carriage-door. Mr. Raymond advised his father
to give him plenty of liberty
he said
Joseph assented heartily, smiling to himself at the idea of pushing
Diamond. After doing everything that fell to his share, the boy had a
wealth of time at his disposal. And a happy, sometimes a merry time it
was. Only for two months or so, he neither saw nor heard anything of
North Wind
MR. RAYMOND'S house was called The Mound, because it stood upon a little
steep knoll, so smooth and symmetrical that it showed itself at once to
be artificial. It had, beyond doubt, been built for Queen Elizabeth as a
hunting tower -- a place, namely, from the top of which you could see the
country for miles on all sides, and so be able to follow with your eyes
the flying deer and the pursuing hounds and horsemen. The mound had been
cast up to give a good basement-advantage over the neighbouring heights
and woods. There was a great quarry-hole not far off, brim-full of
water, from which, as the current legend stated, the materials forming
the heart of the mound -- a kind of stone unfit for building -- had been
dug. The house itself was of brick, and they said the foundations were
first laid in the natural level, and then the stones and earth of the
mound were heaped about and between them, so that its great height
should be well buttressed.

Joseph and his wife lived in a little cottage a short way from the
house. It was a real cottage, with a roof of thick thatch, which, in
June and July, the wind sprinkled with the red and white petals it shook
from the loose topmost sprays of the rose-trees climbing the walls. At
first Diamond had a nest under this thatch -- a pretty little room with
white muslin curtains, but afterwards Mr. and Mrs. Raymond wanted to
have him for a page in the house, and his father and mother were quite
pleased to have him employed without his leaving them. So he was dressed
in a suit of blue, from which his pale face and fair hair came out like
the loveliest blossom, and took up his abode in the house
asked his mistress
said Diamond
she
returned
she answered; and taking him by the hand,
she led him up and up the oval-winding stair in one of the two towers.

Near the top they entered a tiny little room, with two windows from
which you could see over the whole country. Diamond clapped his hands
with delight
said his mistress
he answered
I daresay he thought, also, that it would be a nice place for North
Wind to call at in passing; but he said nothing of that sort. Below him
spread a lake of green leaves, with glimpses of grass here and there at
the bottom of it. As he looked down, he saw a squirrel appear suddenly,
and as suddenly vanish amongst the topmost branches
he cried
said his
mistress
So Diamond was installed as page, and his new room got ready for him.

It was very soon after this that I came to know Diamond. I was then a
tutor in a family whose estate adjoined the little property belonging
to The Mound. I had made the acquaintance of Mr. Raymond in London some
time before, and was walking up the drive towards the house to call upon
him one fine warm evening, when I saw Diamond for the first time. He was
sitting at the foot of a great beech-tree, a few yards from the road,
with a book on his knees. He did not see me. I walked up behind
the tree, and peeping over his shoulder, saw that he was reading a
fairy-book
I said, and spoke suddenly, with the hope of
seeing a startled little face look round at me. Diamond turned his
head as quietly as if he were only obeying his mother's voice, and the
calmness of his face rebuked my unkind desire and made me ashamed of it
said
Diamond
I returned
I asked at a guess
I asked respectfully
he answered
At this moment I caught sight of two more children approaching. One was
a handsome girl, the other a pale-faced, awkward-looking boy, who limped
much on one leg. I withdrew a little, to see what would follow, for they
seemed in some consternation. After a few hurried words, they went
off together, and I pursued my way to the house, where I was as kindly
received by Mr. and Mrs. Raymond as I could have desired. From them I
learned something of Diamond, and was in consequence the more glad to
find him, when I returned, seated in the same place as before
I asked
I could not help thinking of the old meaning of the word silly
I asked
He rose, saying
and led me to the other side of the
tree.

There hung a little rope-ladder from one of the lower boughs. The boy
climbed up the ladder and got upon the bough. Then he climbed farther
into the leafy branches, and went out of sight.

After a little while, I heard his voice coming down out of the tree
said the voice
I returned
This was the first I heard of North Wind.

The whole ways and look of the child, so full of quiet wisdom, yet so
ready to accept the judgment of others in his own dispraise, took hold
of my heart, and I felt myself wonderfully drawn towards him. It seemed
to me, somehow, as if little Diamond possessed the secret of life, and
was himself what he was so ready to think the lowest living thing -- an
angel of God with something special to say or do. A gush of reverence
came over me, and with a single goodnight, I turned and left him in his
nest.

I saw him often after this, and gained so much of his confidence that he
told me all I have told you. I cannot pretend to account for it. I leave
that for each philosophical reader to do after his own fashion. The
easiest way is that of Nanny and Jim, who said often to each other
that Diamond had a tile loose. But Mr. Raymond was much of my opinion
concerning the boy; while Mrs. Raymond confessed that she often rang her
bell just to have once more the pleasure of seeing the lovely stillness
of the boy's face, with those blue eyes which seemed rather made for
other people to look into than for himself to look out of.

It was plainer to others than to himself that he felt the desertion of
Nanny and Jim. They appeared to regard him as a mere toy, except when
they found he could minister to the scruple of using him -- generally with
success. They were, however, well-behaved to a wonderful degree; while
I have little doubt that much of their good behaviour was owing to the
unconscious influence of the boy they called God's baby.

One very strange thing is that I could never find out where he got some
of his many songs. At times they would be but bubbles blown out of a
nursery rhyme, as was the following, which I heard him sing one evening
to his little Dulcimer. There were about a score of sheep feeding in a
paddock near him, their white wool dyed a pale rose in the light of the
setting sun. Those in the long shadows from the trees were dead white;
those in the sunlight were half glorified with pale rose.


         Little Bo Peep, she lost her sheep,
            And didn't know where to find them;
         They were over the height and out of sight,
            Trailing their tails behind them.

         Little Bo Peep woke out of her sleep,
            Jump'd up and set out to find them
For wherever a tail had dragged a trail,
   The long grass grew behind them.

   And day's eyes and butter-cups, cow's lips and crow's feet
   Were glittering in the sun.
   She threw down her book, and caught up her crook,
   And after her sheep did run.

   She ran, and she ran, and ever as she ran,
   The grass grew higher and higher;
   Till over the hill the sun began
   To set in a flame of fire.

   She ran on still -- up the grassy hill,
   And the grass grew higher and higher;
   When she reached its crown, the sun was down,
   And had left a trail of fire.

   The sheep and their tails were gone, all gone --
   And no more trail behind them!
   Yes, yes!  they were there -- long-tailed and fair,
   But, alas!  she could not find them.

   Purple and gold, and rosy and blue,
   With their tails all white behind them,
   Her sheep they did run in the trail of the sun;
   She saw them, but could not find them.

   After the sun, like clouds they did run,
   But she knew they were her sheep:
   She sat down to cry, and look up at the sky,
   But she cried herself asleep.

   And as she slept the dew fell fast,
   And the wind blew from the sky;
   And strange things took place that shun the day's face,
   Because they are sweet and shy.

   Nibble, nibble, crop!  she heard as she woke:
   A hundred little lambs
   Did pluck and eat the grass so sweet
   That grew in the trails of their dams.

   Little Bo Peep caught up her crook,
   And wiped the tears that did blind her.
   And nibble, nibble crop! without a stop!
   The lambs came eating behind her.

   Home, home she came, both tired and lame,
   With three times as many sheep.
   In a month or more, they'll be as big as before,
   And then she'll laugh in her sleep.

   But what would you say, if one fine day,
   When they've got their bushiest tails,
   Their grown up game should be just the same,
   And she have to follow their trails?

   Never weep, Bo Peep, though you lose your sheep,
   And do not know where to find them;
   'Tis after the sun the mothers have run,
   And there are their lambs behind them.

I confess again to having touched up a little, but it loses far more
in Diamond's sweet voice singing it than it gains by a rhyme here and
there.

Some of them were out of books Mr. Raymond had given him. These he
always knew, but about the others he could seldom tell. Sometimes he
would say
but generally he would say
or
One evening I found him sitting on the grassy slope under the house,
with his Dulcimer in his arms and his little brother rolling on the
grass beside them. He was chanting in his usual way, more like the sound
of a brook than anything else I can think of. When I went up to them he
ceased his chant
I said.

He began again at once. While he sang, Nanny and Jim sat a little way
off, one hemming a pocket-handkerchief, and the other reading a story
to her, but they never heeded Diamond. This is as near what he sang as I
can recollect, or reproduce rather.

   What would you see if I took you up
   To my little nest in the air?
   You would see the sky like a clear blue cup
   Turned upside downwards there.

   What would you do if I took you there
   To my little nest in the tree?
   My child with cries would trouble the air,
   To get what she could but see.

   What would you get in the top of the tree
   For all your crying and grief?
   Not a star would you clutch of all you see --
   You could only gather a leaf.

   But when you had lost your greedy grief,
   Content to see from afar,
   You would find in your hand a withering leaf,
   In your heart a shining star.

As Diamond went on singing, it grew very dark, and just as he ceased
there came a great flash of lightning, that blinded us all for a moment.
Dulcimer crowed with pleasure; but when the roar of thunder came after
it, the little brother gave a loud cry of terror. Nanny and Jim came
running up to us, pale with fear. Diamond's face, too, was paler than
usual, but with delight. Some of the glory seemed to have clung to it,
and remained shining
I said
he answered with his usual question, looking up
in my face with calm shining eyes
said Nanny, going up to him and
giving him a pitying hug
I returned
said Jim
said Diamond.

As he spoke there came another great flash, and a tearing crack
I said; and when we looked round, after the
blinding of the flash had left our eyes, we saw a huge bough of the
beech-tree in which was Diamond's nest hanging to the ground like the
broken wing of a bird
cried Nanny
said Diamond, and began to sing to Dulcimer. All I
could hear of the song, for the other children were going on with their
chatter, was --

                     The clock struck one,
                     And the mouse came down.
                     Dickery, dickery, dock!

Then there came a blast of wind, and the rain followed in
straight-pouring lines, as if out of a watering-pot. Diamond jumped up
with his little Dulcimer in his arms, and Nanny caught up the little
boy, and they ran for the cottage. Jim vanished with a double shuffle,
and I went into the house.

When I came out again to return home, the clouds were gone, and the
evening sky glimmered through the trees, blue, and pale-green towards
the west, I turned my steps a little aside to look at the stricken
beech. I saw the bough torn from the stem, and that was all the twilight
would allow me to see. While I stood gazing, down from the sky came a
sound of singing, but the voice was neither of lark nor of nightingale:
it was sweeter than either: it was the voice of Diamond, up in his airy
nest:--

                     The lightning and thunder,
                     They go and they come;
                     But the stars and the stillness
                     Are always at home.

And then the voice ceased
I said
answered Diamond.

As I walked away pondering, I saw the great black top of the beech
swaying about against the sky in an upper wind, and heard the murmur as
of many dim half-articulate voices filling the solitude around Diamond's
nest
MY READERS will not wonder that, after this, I did my very best to gain
the friendship of Diamond. Nor did I find this at all difficult, the
child was so ready to trust. Upon one subject alone was he reticent -- the
story of his relations with North Wind. I fancy he could not quite make
up his mind what to think of them. At all events it was some little time
before he trusted me with this, only then he told me everything. If
I could not regard it all in exactly the same light as he did, I was,
while guiltless of the least pretence, fully sympathetic, and he
was satisfied without demanding of me any theory of difficult points
involved. I let him see plainly enough, that whatever might be the
explanation of the marvellous experience, I would have given much for a
similar one myself.

On an evening soon after the thunderstorm, in a late twilight, with
a half-moon high in the heavens, I came upon Diamond in the act of
climbing by his little ladder into the beech-tree
I heard Nanny ask,
rather rudely, I thought
answered
Diamond, looking skywards as he climbed
she said
he added, without heeding
her remark
she returned
exclaimed Nanny, with an expression of
mild despair
he answered, and vanished in
the leaves over our heads.

I went into the house, where I visited often in the evenings. When I
came out, there was a little wind blowing, very pleasant after the heat
of the day, for although it was late summer now, it was still hot. The
tree-tops were swinging about in it. I took my way past the beech, and
called up to see if Diamond were still in his nest in its rocking head
I said
came his clear voice in reply
I insisted -- foolishly, seeing the boy was as careful as
he could be already
he returned
I heard a rustling and a rustling drawing nearer and nearer. Three or
four minutes elapsed, and he appeared at length creeping down his little
ladder. I took him in my arms, and set him on the ground
he said
I answered
said Diamond
He ran to the house, and I went home.

His mistress had rung for him only to send him to bed, for she was very
careful over him and I daresay thought he was not looking well. When he
reached his own room, he opened both his windows, one of which looked to
the north and the other to the east, to find how the wind blew. It blew
right in at the northern window. Diamond was very glad, for he thought
perhaps North Wind herself would come now: a real north wind had never
blown all the time since he left London. But, as she always came of
herself, and never when he was looking for her, and indeed almost never
when he was thinking of her, he shut the east window, and went to bed.
Perhaps some of my readers may wonder that he could go to sleep with
such an expectation; and, indeed, if I had not known him, I should have
wondered at it myself; but it was one of his peculiarities, and seemed
nothing strange in him. He was so full of quietness that he could go
to sleep almost any time, if he only composed himself and let the sleep
come. This time he went fast asleep as usual.

But he woke in the dim blue night. The moon had vanished. He thought he
heard a knocking at his door
he said to himself,
and jumping out of bed, ran to open it.

But there was no one there. He closed it again, and, the noise still
continuing, found that another door in the room was rattling. It
belonged to a closet, he thought, but he had never been able to open it.
The wind blowing in at the window must be shaking it. He would go and
see if it was so.

The door now opened quite easily, but to his surprise, instead of a
closet he found a long narrow room. The moon, which was sinking in the
west, shone in at an open window at the further end. The room was
low with a coved ceiling, and occupied the whole top of the house,
immediately under the roof. It was quite empty. The yellow light of
the half-moon streamed over the dark floor. He was so delighted at the
discovery of the strange, desolate, moonlit place close to his own snug
little room, that he began to dance and skip about the floor. The wind
came in through the door he had left open, and blew about him as he
danced, and he kept turning towards it that it might blow in his face.
He kept picturing to himself the many places, lovely and desolate, the
hill-sides and farm-yards and tree-tops and meadows, over which it had
blown on its way to The Mound. And as he danced, he grew more and more
delighted with the motion and the wind; his feet grew stronger, and his
body lighter, until at length it seemed as if he were borne up on the
air, and could almost fly. So strong did his feeling become, that at
last he began to doubt whether he was not in one of those precious
dreams he had so often had, in which he floated about on the air at
will. But something made him look up, and to his unspeakable delight, he
found his uplifted hands lying in those of North Wind, who was dancing
with him, round and round the long bare room, her hair now falling to
the floor, now filling the arched ceiling, her eyes shining on him like
thinking stars, and the sweetest of grand smiles playing breezily about
her beautiful mouth. She was, as so often before, of the height of a
rather tall lady. She did not stoop in order to dance with him, but held
his hands high in hers. When he saw her, he gave one spring, and his
arms were about her neck, and her arms holding him to her bosom. The
same moment she swept with him through the open window in at which
the moon was shining, made a circuit like a bird about to alight, and
settled with him in his nest on the top of the great beech-tree. There
she placed him on her lap and began to hush him as if he were her own
baby, and Diamond was so entirely happy that he did not care to speak a
word. At length, however, he found that he was going to sleep, and
that would be to lose so much, that, pleasant as it was, he could not
consent
he said
returned North Wind.

"I should, cry" said Diamond
answered Diamond
said North Wind, in a rather sorrowful tone, he thought
he
persisted, already beginning to cry a little.

She made no answer, but rose with him in her arms and sailed away over
the tree-tops till they came to a meadow, where a flock of sheep was
feeding
asked
North Wind, sitting down on the grass, and placing him in her lap as
before
answered Diamond
Again she rose, and shot herself into the air, as if uneasy because she
could not answer him; and Diamond lay quiet in her arms, waiting
for what she would say. He tried to see up into her face, for he was
dreadfully afraid she was not answering him because she could not say
that she was not a dream; but she had let her hair fall all over her
face so that he could not see it. This frightened him still more
he said at last
she replied
said
Diamond
said North Wind
She descended on a grassy hillock, in the midst of a wild furzy common.
There was a rabbit-warren underneath, and some of the rabbits came out
of their holes, in the moonlight, looking very sober and wise, just like
patriarchs standing in their tent-doors, and looking about them before
going to bed. When they saw North Wind, instead of turning round and
vanishing again with a thump of their heels, they cantered slowly up to
her and snuffled all about her with their long upper lips, which moved
every way at once. That was their way of kissing her; and, as she talked
to Diamond, she would every now and then stroke down their furry backs,
or lift and play with their long ears. They would, Diamond thought, have
leaped upon her lap, but that he was there already
said she, after they had been sitting silent for a while
answered Diamond, stroking her hand
asked Diamond, smiling up in her face
said Diamond, finishing the sentence for her,
and kissing the arm that held him leaning against her
said North
Wind
said Diamond
pleaded Diamond
yielded Diamond with a sigh
said North Wind
She rose, and swept over the meadow and the trees. In a few moments
the Mound appeared below them. She sank a little, and floated in at the
window of Diamond's room. There she laid him on his bed, covered him
over, and in a moment he was lapt in a dreamless sleep
THE next night Diamond was seated by his open window, with his head on
his hand, rather tired, but so eagerly waiting for the promised visit
that he was afraid he could not sleep. But he started suddenly, and
found that he had been already asleep. He rose, and looking out of the
window saw something white against his beech-tree. It was North Wind.
She was holding by one hand to a top branch. Her hair and her garments
went floating away behind her over the tree, whose top was swaying about
while the others were still
she asked
answered Diamond
In a moment she was at the window, and her arms came in and took him.
She sailed away so swiftly that he could at first mark nothing but the
speed with which the clouds above and the dim earth below went rushing
past. But soon he began to see that the sky was very lovely, with
mottled clouds all about the moon, on which she threw faint colours like
those of mother-of-pearl, or an opal. The night was warm, and in the
lady's arms he did not feel the wind which down below was making waves
in the ripe corn, and ripples on the rivers and lakes. At length they
descended on the side of an open earthy hill, just where, from beneath a
stone, a spring came bubbling out
said North Wind
She stooped over the stream and holding Diamond down close to the
surface of it, glided along level with its flow as it ran down the hill.
And the song of the brook came up into Diamond's ears, and grew and
grew and changed with every turn. It seemed to Diamond to be singing the
story of its life to him. And so it was. It began with a musical tinkle
which changed to a babble and then to a gentle rushing. Sometimes its
song would almost cease, and then break out again, tinkle, babble, and
rush, all at once. At the bottom of the hill they came to a small river,
into which the brook flowed with a muffled but merry sound. Along the
surface of the river, darkly clear below them in the moonlight, they
floated; now, where it widened out into a little lake, they would hover
for a moment over a bed of water-lilies, and watch them swing about,
folded in sleep, as the water on which they leaned swayed in the
presence of North Wind; and now they would watch the fishes asleep among
their roots below. Sometimes she would hold Diamond over a deep hollow
curving into the bank, that he might look far into the cool stillness.
Sometimes she would leave the river and sweep across a clover-field. The
bees were all at home, and the clover was asleep. Then she would return
and follow the river. It grew wider and wider as it went. Now the armies
of wheat and of oats would hang over its rush from the opposite banks;
now the willows would dip low branches in its still waters; and now it
would lead them through stately trees and grassy banks into a lovely
garden, where the roses and lilies were asleep, the tender flowers
quite folded up, and only a few wide-awake and sending out their life in
sweet, strong odours. Wider and wider grew the stream, until they came
upon boats lying along its banks, which rocked a little in the flutter
of North Wind's garments. Then came houses on the banks, each standing
in a lovely lawn, with grand trees; and in parts the river was so high
that some of the grass and the roots of some of the trees were under
water, and Diamond, as they glided through between the stems, could see
the grass at the bottom of the water. Then they would leave the river
and float about and over the houses, one after another -- beautiful rich
houses, which, like fine trees, had taken centuries to grow. There was
scarcely a light to be seen, and not a movement to be heard: all the
people in them lay fast asleep
said Diamond
returned North Wind
suggested
Diamond
said North Wind
They were floating past a window in which a light was burning. Diamond
heard a moan, and looked up anxiously in North Wind's face
said North Wind
said Diamond
By a shaded lamp, a lady was seated in a white wrapper, trying to read,
but moaning every minute. North Wind floated behind her chair,
set Diamond down, and told him to sing something. He was a little
frightened, but he thought a while, and then sang:--

           The sun is gone down,
           And the moon's in the sky;
           But the sun will come up,
           And the moon be laid by.

           The flower is asleep
           But it is not dead;
           When the morning shines,
           It will lift its head.

           When winter comes,
           It will die -- no, no;
           It will only hide
           From the frost and the snow.

           Sure is the summer,
           Sure is the sun;
           The night and the winter
           Are shadows that run.

The lady never lifted her eyes from her book, or her head from her hand.

As soon as Diamond had finished, North Wind lifted him and carried him
away
asked Diamond when they were once more
floating down the river
answered North Wind
said Diamond
suggested Diamond
assented the lady
cried Diamond
she answered
cried Diamond, as North Wind sailed over the house with
him, and set him down on the lawn at the back.

Diamond ran about the lawn for a little while in the moonlight. He found
part of it cut up into flower-beds, and the little summer-house with the
coloured glass and the great elm-tree gone. He did not like this, and
ran into the stable. There were no horses there at all. He ran upstairs.
The rooms were empty. The only thing left that he cared about was the
hole in the wall where his little bed had stood; and that was not enough
to make him wish to stop. He ran down the stair again, and out upon the
lawn. There he threw himself down and began to cry. It was all so dreary
and lost
said Diamond to himself
he cried aloud, turning
his face towards the sky.

The moon was under a cloud, and all was looking dull and dismal. A
star shot from the sky, and fell in the grass beside him. The moment it
lighted, there stood North Wind
cried Diamond, joyfully
said North Wind
So saying, North Wind lifted Diamond and bore him away
I DID not see Diamond for a week or so after this, and then he told me
what I have now told you. I should have been astonished at his being
able even to report such conversations as he said he had had with
North Wind, had I not known already that some children are profound in
metaphysics. But a fear crosses me, lest, by telling so much about
my friend, I should lead people to mistake him for one of those
consequential, priggish little monsters, who are always trying to say
clever things, and looking to see whether people appreciate them. When a
child like that dies, instead of having a silly book written about him,
he should be stuffed like one of those awful big-headed fishes you
see in museums. But Diamond never troubled his head about what people
thought of him. He never set up for knowing better than others. The
wisest things he said came out when he wanted one to help him with some
difficulty he was in. He was not even offended with Nanny and Jim for
calling him a silly. He supposed there was something in it, though he
could not quite understand what. I suspect however that the other name
they gave him, God's Baby, had some share in reconciling him to it.

Happily for me, I was as much interested in metaphysics as Diamond
himself, and therefore, while he recounted his conversations with North
Wind, I did not find myself at all in a strange sea, although certainly
I could not always feel the bottom, being indeed convinced that the
bottom was miles away
he asked anxiously
I answered
returned Diamond
Then he was silent, but, I confess, appeared more thoughtful than
satisfied.

The next time I saw him, he looked paler than usual
I asked him
he answered, solemnly
I asked
he answered
he added with a smile.

I did not quite like this, but I said nothing.

Four days after, I called again at the Mound. The maid who opened
the door looked grave, but I suspected nothing. When I reached the
drawing-room, I saw Mrs. Raymond had been crying
she said, seeing my questioning looks
I answered
Here the kind-hearted lady broke out crying afresh
I asked
she sobbed
I walked up the winding stair, and entered his room. A lovely figure, as
white and almost as clear as alabaster, was lying on the bed. I saw at
once how it was. They thought he was dead. I knew that he had gone to
the back of the north wind
</text>
